16-11-2020||Business||Diesel sales fall 5 per cent in November ||India's diesel sales fell 5 per cent in the first half of November when compared to the previous year, industry data showed on Monday, after rising for the first time in eight months in October. Sale of diesel, the most used fuel in the country, was, however, 7 per cent higher month-on-month. Between November 1 and 15, diesel consumption was 2.86 million tonnes, down from 3.01 million tonnes in the same period a year back. It was, however, higher than the 2.65 million tonnes demand during the first half of October. Petrol sales rose marginally to 1.03 million tonnes from 1.02 million tonnes, while cooking gas (LPG) sales for the first time this year fell by 2 per cent to 1.07 million tonnes. Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) sales fell 53 per cent year-on-year to 155,000 tonnes but were 1.3 per cent higher month-on-month. The total demand for petroleum products rose 2.5 per cent in October to reach 17.77 million tonnes. While petrol had reached pre-COVID levels in September itself, diesel consumption had returned to normal last month. Diesel demand spurted 7.4 per cent year-on-year to 6.5 million tonnes while petrol sales were up 4.5 per cent at 2.54 million tonnes. The growth in diesel consumption was the highest in a year. Industry sources said month-on-month diesel sales has risen in November, which is a good sign. Fuel demand had slumped by 49 per cent in April after a nationwide lockdown, imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, shut industries and took most vehicles off-road. The 69-day nationwide lockdown was followed by local and state-level restrictions. Restrictions have eased only slowly and in phases, and localised restrictions in containment zones remain. The onset of the festive season has fuelled a rise in consumption but public transport is not back to normal levels yet as schools and educational institutions continue to remain shut in most parts of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||In Samvat 2077, usher in prosperity by sticking to the popular large cap stocks or funds||The premier equity indices have scaled new highs. The trend has already kindled fresh allocations, driven by expectations of a more formidable rally. Investors, enthused by what many perceive are green shoots in the economy, are looking forward to more. A regime change in the world’s most powerful nation, the crawl-back of key indicators to pre-Covid levels, and the possibility of finding a placebo for the disease have compounded the market’s collective anticipation. A scenario like, nevertheless, calls for caution. Today, we will not only introspect but also ascertain whether we need to apply the brakes as well. First up, however, is a bitter pill —the rally is a bit too one-sided. The large caps seem to have cornered all the attention, leaving limited room for fresh exposure to mid-caps. The former are being chased all the time, thanks to bulge-bracket investors who have displayed little patience for the also-rans. The mid-caps, many of which possess great potential, have not participated in the current upside. What should investors do in these circumstances? Which strategy would fetch them decent risk-adjusted returns? Is there scope for allocating resources in a different manner? Vision is all The right place to begin, of course, is one’s own portfolio. Imagine you are an investor who holds a basket of mid-caps. Chances are you feel a bit flustered at the moment, given the fact that the uptrend has largely bypassed you. If you are convinced that your stocks would indeed live up to their promise, do retain them. Else, a serious review in favour of select large-caps would be necessary. Initiation of such a process must be backed by a powerful yet individualistic vision — your very own conviction that Stock X would still deliver superlative performance, its market capitalisation be damned. Now, in case such a vision is missing, the alternative needs to be found by way of another stock. Therefore, Stock Y has to be identified, and purchase transactions would have to be executed over a period of time. Whether Stock Y should be large-cap is a decision worth your time. This takes us back to the original issue — the prevalence of large-caps on marketmen’s radar. If you wish to fall in line, consider this: Tailwinds Tailwinds are everything; they come together to fuel stock prices and take them to greater highs. This is reflected adequately in the indices, especially the two that are tracked by all — Nifty and Sensex. At 12780 points, the 50-share Nifty is the most obvious choice for those who want a basket of super large-caps. An investor can approach it in two ways. One, he can do a bit of stock-picking on his own. Here, he need not abide by the weightages assigned to Nifty constituents. The idea is to outperform the index. Two, he can acquire an index fund based on Nifty. This is done with the purpose of mirroring the returns delivered by the index. There is no question of outperformance. Index funds based on Nifty have a serious advantage: they are an inexpensive way of owning the most eminent stocks. Index funds, especially the exchange traded ones, have emerged globally as a convenient way of holding securities. Large-caps today The large-cap story is being loudly chased by the investment fraternity. A number of stocks that figure in this bracket are near their peaks, while others are believed to be getting closer. Whether the saga would continue unabated is not for us to speculate on. However, getting a fair idea of the actual index statistics is recommended. Once again, I refer to the Nifty. Its three leading contributors are financial services, IT and oil & gas. Together, they account for about 70 per cent of its aggregate weightage. Pharmaceuticals, the current rage, is a single-digit contributor at 3.75 per cent. This is a lop-sided concoction. The powerful counter argument is that the Nifty stocks that are not part of the bulge bracket have enough potential to grow in stature. Any added thrust from them would make the index an even more convincing proxy for the entire market. A similar story is being played on the BSE front, thanks to the antics of the BSE Sensex. The writer is director of Wishlist Capital Advisors||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel growth strategy built around a trio of themes||Focusing on deleveraging the balance sheet, deploying capital for profitable and high growth projects and restructuring Indian and European operations would be some of the key initiatives Tata Steel will work on, Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and chief financial officer of the company, tells in an interview to The Telegraph. Tata Steel has announced a slew of strategic initiatives for the Indian and European business. How would the company look like two years down the line? Very different I think. The India reorganisation into clusters will be completed — which means we will have a much more synergistic portfolio and customer approach on our downstream businesses. The synergy implementation of the consolidation, including Tata Steel BSL, would have been completed and we would have sorted our strategy on the European portfolio. Which means our balance sheet would be much more efficient, de-levered and a strong free cash flow business ready for the next phase of profitable growth. The Netherlands operations were always thought to be cost efficient and competitive, on a par with other similarly situated steel units in Europe. Why is Tata Steel proposing to sell off the business while keeping the perennially loss making UK operation? Our strategy has a few themes on which we are working. First, to find a long-term structural solution to our European portfolio, second to deleverage the balance sheet to the target levels and third, focus and deploy capital for profitable growth in the Indian market. Hence, all our strategic actions that you see are oriented around these themes. How much cash/working capital support will be required to keep Tata Steel Europe a going concern this year? So far we have not given any direct support to Europe during the year. The management has found several self help measures to sustain the business. There has also been support from the Netherlands and the UK governments to businesses impacted by the pandemic which has been availed by Tata Steel Europe. The analyst presentation says that the business will pivot around cash. Does it mean the company’s priority would be to conserve cash rather than expansion or fresh acquisition? Yes as part of our corporate strategy we have put  focus on generating free cash flows and balance sheet management as a very high priority. Hence, the capital allocation framework, especially post the outbreak of the pandemic, has been tightened significantly and de-leveraging is a key theme as we have said we will de-lever the balance sheet by about $1 billion per annum for the next few years. Having said that, we also have very important and attractive growth projects, especially the expansion of Kalinganagar, and we are prioritising capex within that project and identifying facilities that will help us in margin expansion. For example, the pellet plant which has very significant cost synergies and the cold rolling mill complex that will help enrich the product mix and give better realisations. These projects are very important and will get the allocation for completion as India growth is a priority and our capital allocation will reflect that in the future. The company reduced net debt by a billion dollar in the first half. What is the ideal debt-to-equity ratio Tata Steel will be comfortable with and when can it be achieved? For the moment, we will continue to maintain the deleveraging plan and review what would be the sustainable state in the future. A net debt to EBIDTA is a more appropriate metric and a range around 3.25x would be a good steady state in the near term. The company posted a strong operating number for the Indian business. Is it sustainable during this quarter and the next? There are a few reasons for the good performance this quarter in India and among them are many internal enablers and a few external drivers. Primary among them is the ability to drive volumes to record levels during the quarter and our focus on operating costs and mix improvement. The last two factors are clearly ongoing and we will continue to drive value from them in the future. 
The improved market prices because of higher global steel prices and the benefit of that on our mix helped in improving the margins. 
Without giving any guidance, I can see the current market conditions remaining quite strong and we hope to continue on our internal efforts to sustain the overall level of performance. Tata Steel BSL posted impressive numbers and the focus is on cash flow and deleveraging. Is the merger with Tata Steel off the table? No the process is with the NCLT and we will go through the due process for the merger. There are significant synergies that can be further realised once we merge as we will have the third hub within Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Proposal for tax-free plan for pension for all categories||Pension fund regulator PFRDA will propose to the government to make employers’ contribution of 14 per cent under NPS tax free for all categories of subscribers in the next budget, chairman Supratim Bandyopadhyay said. Employers’ contribution of 14 per cent in pension under the National Pension System (NPS) scheme for the central government employees was made tax-free from April 1, 2019. “We may propose things like 14 per cent contribution by employers to be made tax free to all. At present, it is given only to the central government employers. So we are requesting the government to give it to all the employers, whether it is state governments or other corporate entities, so that subscribers across the board can get this benefit,” Bandyopadhyay said. The PFRDA chairman said states are asking that the 14 per cent tax benefit be given to state government employees also. He said some state governments have written to the authority requesting the same. Besides, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) will ask the government to extend the benefit of tier-II NPS account as tax-free for all subscribers. Recently, the facility was granted to the central government employees.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Centre plans mines reform before auction||The Centre is planning to come out with the proposed mining reforms in a month or so and the auction of mineral blocks will kickstart two to three months after the amendments take place, coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi has said. The mines ministry had earlier sought suggestions from the public, mining industry and other stakeholders on the proposed reforms in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. “We want to bring these reforms very shortly...In another month or so reforms should come out,” Joshi said. The government, he said, is looking into the feedback it has received on the proposed reforms and stressed that the Centre wishes to auction at least 500 mineral blocks in the coming two to three years. The slew of reform proposals include amending the contentious provisions of 10A(2)(b) and 10A (2)(c) of the MMDR Act, a move that would pave the way for auctioning of around 500 potential leases stuck in legacy issues now. Section 10A(2)(b) deals with leases where reconnaissance permit or prospecting licence were granted while 10A(2)(c) relates to grant of mining leases. Joshi said there is mixed opinion on the acts and stressed that it does not want to go into the details on the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||AU Small Bank offers 4-7% rates||Jaipur-based AU Small Finance Bank has worked out a diversification plan to expand in eastern and southern India and step up customer acquisition through a slab-based interest rate structure on savings accounts ranging between 4 per cent and 7 per cent. The expansion will take the network of branches and touch points to around 750 by the first quarter of 2021-22 from 697 at the end of September 2020. The bank began operations in the east through its first branch in Calcutta and plans to add another branch at Bhubaneswar soon. “The first three years after we became a bank from an NBFC, the focus was more on stabilising operations. So, we were not looking to expand in markets where we were not present in the east and south. But we have expanded in Bangalore and more recently in Calcutta. Our immediate plan is to be present in all the state capitals and that should happen by the first quarter of next fiscal,” said Rishi Dhariwal, group head, branch banking, AU Small Finance Bank. “We will have 725-750 touchpoints by the end of the first quarter of next year,” he said. The bank is relying on its relatively high interest rates to shore up customer base in a competitive market. There is currently a slab based interest rate for savings account holders of the bank with a 7 per cent interest rate on incremental balance above Rs 10 lakh. “The peak rate for savings account of our bank is 7 per cent and we are offering monthly interest on savings account, The cost to the bank is slightly higher, but given the segment that we cater to, we are able to manage the incremental cost,” said Dhariwal. With declining interest rates, sustaining high rates on the liability side become a challenge. But Dhariwal said a combination of size of business and the segment of customers allows the bank to maintain a  high interest rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Sambhu Nath Mukherjee no more||Sambhu Nath Mukherjee, a prominent name in Calcutta’s advertising agency circle, breathed his last on Wednesday after a prolonged illness. Mukherjee, who was the managing director of Press & Publicity Syndicate Pvt Ltd, was 76. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Born in Calcutta in 1944, he joined the advertising agency that his father Ram Mukherjee founded in 1948, even though he was trained as a lawyer. He took the company to greater heights. During his tenure, PPS expanded operations outside Calcutta to Delhi, Bhubaneswar and Visakhapatnam. All the leading state and central public sector units used to be clients of PPS. The Mukherjees had a strong connection with the then ruling Congress party as Ram Mukherjee was an active member. Sambhu Mukherjee’s elder son, Nilotpal, recalled that his father often visited Pranab Mukherjee’s ancestral home during Durga Puja. Chandra Bhanu Sen, who worked closely with Mukherjee, remembered him as someone who had excellent contacts in the top level of bureaucracy and senior-level management of PSUs. “A charming personality, he had a strong personal rapport with the top bosses of the PSUs,” Sen recalled. Mukherjee, who was a regular at the elite club circuit of the city, became president of Calcutta Club in 2008, having served the committee for 10 years prior to it. Known for his affable nature, Mukherjee never hesitated to help out friends and associates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
16-11-2020||Business||Reliance Industries buys Urban Ladder||Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL), the retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL), has acquired a 96 per cent stake in Urban Ladder for Rs 182.12 crore. The investment represents 96 per cent holding in the equity share capital of the online furniture retailer. “RRVL has acquired equity shares of Urban Ladder Home Decor Solutions Pvt Ltd for a cash consideration of Rs 182.12 crore,’’ RIL said in a late night regulatory filing on Saturday. Urban Ladder was founded by Rajiv Srivatsa and Rajiv Goel in 2012. It had earlier raised over Rs 700 crore from venture capital funds such as Kalaari Capital, Sequoia Capital and SAIF Partners. However, it faced difficulties in raising fresh capital in recent months and the last such exercise was in 2019 where it mobilised Rs 15 crore. Urban Ladder’s valuation has also reportedly come down from a peak of over Rs 1,000 crore. Besides the online space, Urban Ladder has a presence in offline channels and operates a chain of stores in several cities. RRVL is now likely to expand this offline presence. In 2018-19, the audited turnover of Urban Ladder stood at Rs 434 crore and the net profit was Rs 49.41 crore. Analysts said Reliance has acquired the company at a very cheap valuation. The acquisition will enable Reliance Retail to expand its offerings to better compete against not only online giants such as Amazon and Flipkart but also niche players such as Pepperfry and Ikea. This is the second acquisition by Reliance Retail in three months after it bought a majority stake in Netmeds, the Chennai-based online pharmacy, for a cash consideration of around Rs 620 crore. RRVL has so far mobilised Rs 47,265 crore from global investors such as Silver Lake, KKR, General Atlantic, Mubadala, GIC, TPG, Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund (PIF) and ADIA. Over the past few months, Mukesh Ambani has been looking to expand Reliance Retail’s presence across various verticals. While the acquisition of Future group’s retail assets has now run into a rough weather, Reliance Retail has been growing its reach in online grocery, pharmacy and now even in furniture retail. Observers expect fashion to be the next segment where Reliance Retail could make a big splash. "The aforesaid investment will further enable the group’s digital and new commerce initiatives and widen the bouquet of consumer products provided by the group, while enhancing user engagement and experience across its retail offerings,” RIL said. RRVL has a further option to acquire the balance stake, taking its shareholding to 100 per cent of the equity share capital of Urban Ladder. Apart from the Rs 182 crore investment, RRVL has also proposed to make an investment of up to Rs 75 crore inthe company. This investment is expected to be completed by December 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
16-11-2020||Business||RCEP pact signed, India on sidelines||Fifteen Asia-Pacific nations, including China, on Sunday signed the world’s biggest trade agreement, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), sans India, with hopes that it will help recover from the shocks of the Covid-19 pandemic. The RCEP was signed after eight years of negotiations at the conclusion of the annual summit of Southeast Asian leaders and their regional partners, held virtually this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The agreement, which covers almost a third of the world economy, will progressively lower tariffs across many areas in the coming years, reported Channel News Asia. After the signing, all countries would have to ratify the RCEP within two years before it becomes effective. India, one of the leading consumer-driven market in the region, pulled out of talks last year, concerned that the elimination of tariffs would open its markets to a flood of imports that could harm local producers. But other nations have said in the past that the door remains open for India’s participation in the RCEP, influenced by China. The RCEP was first proposed in 2012 and loops in 10 Asean economies — Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia — along with China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia. Host country Vietnam’s Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said the Covid-19 pandemic has harmed global and regional trade and investment flows, including the countries participating in the RCEP talks. Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said he joins fellow RCEP countries “in hoping that India too, will be able to come on board at some point so that the participation in 
the RCEP will fully reflect the emerging patterns of integration and regional cooperation in Asia”. They make up nearly a third of the world’s population and account for 29 per cent of global gross domestic product, he said. Countries that have signed the RCEP agreement can start negotiations with India for joining the pact once New Delhi submits a written request stating its intention for the same, according to a declaration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
16-11-2020||Business||Oil price trend key to BPCL selloff||All eyes would be on the bidders of state-owned refiner BPCL where the last date for the submission of expressions of interest is Monday, with the Centre making it clear it would not extend the date any further after pushing the deadline back as many as four times amid disruptions caused by the coronavirus. Analysts, however, are not ruling out surprises: the changes in the US political landscape and positive developments on the Covid-19 vaccine could help to boost future energy prices, which is key to the bidding. The government plans to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL and has extended the deadline four times, with the present one being November 16. “Transaction advisers are in touch with our potential investors, they have not got back to us with a request for an extension,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. The government has eased the bidding norms by allowing the bidders to submit their EoIs via email with all the requisite documents. Sources said the BPCL disinvestment has received interest from several large global oil and gas companies and a few Indian entities as well. There have been close to 100 enquiries which is a clear signal of investor interest. Analysts said Abu Dhabi National Oil Co (Adnoc) and Exxon Mobil could participate apart from some Indian companies such as Reliance. Reports suggest the world’s largest oil producer Saudi Aramco and Rosneft of Russia may not participate because of soft oil prices and fragile demand conditions. However, with Democrat Jo Biden winning the US presidential elections and the prospects of Pfizer developing a vaccine, the outlook in the energy sector has improved. “Developments such as a change in leadership in the US and positive news related to the Covid-19 vaccine are expected to soon boost global economic recovery. This, in turn, is likely to drive oil demand,” brokerage Motilal Oswal said. The brokerage said the forecast for a rise in oil demand for the next calendar year stands at 6.5 million barrels of oil per day against a projected daily loss of 9.5 million barrels in 2020.
Refining margins, which have averaged at $0.3 per barrel in 2020, are also likely to rise with an increase in demand for petroleum products, Motilal Oswal said. The delay has complicated the chances of receiving the divestment proceeds from the sale of the refiner, which is critical to meet the target of Rs 21.1 lakh set by the Centre in the budget for this fiscal. The devastating impact of the coronavirus on the economy has put the strain on the Centre's finances at a time revenues have shrunk, forcing the government department to cut back on spending. After the EoIs, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to do due diligence of the books of the company and its operations after which financial bids will be called. The bids will have to be evaluated and approved by the cabinet and the transaction will close once the payment is made, sources said. The government has barred PSUs from the bidding. The government has proposed a strategic disinvestment of its entire shareholding in BPCL — comprising 114.91 crore equity shares, or 52.98 per cent of  share capital — along with the transfer of management. BPCL will not sell its 61.65 per cent stake in Numaligarh Refinery to the strategic buyer. The Numaligarh stake will be sold to a state-owned oil and gas company. The Centre has allowed prospective bidders with a minimum net worth of $10 billion. A maximum of four members are permitted in a consortium, with the lead member holding 40 per cent. Other members must have a net worth of $1 billion. The EoI allows changes in the consortium within 45 days, though the lead member cannot be changed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-235
