17-11-2020||Business||Sensex surge over 300 points to close at a record high||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 315 points to close at a fresh lifetime high on Tuesday, driven by heavy buying in metal, industrials, banking and finance stocks. After touching its all-time peak of 44,161.16 during the session, the 30-share BSE index settled 314.73 points or 0.72 per cent higher at 43,952.71. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a fresh intra-day high of 12,934.05. It finally finished 93.95 points or 0.74 per cent up at its closing record of 12,874.20. Tata Steel was the top gainer among the Sensex constituents, surging around 6 per cent, followed by SBI, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance, Axis Bank, LT, Maruti, IndusInd Bank and HDFC. On the other hand, NTPC, HCL Tech, ONGC, Infosys, ITC, PowerGrid, and Hindustan Unilever were in the red. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent lower at USD 43.71 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty open on a high after positive vaccine news||Equity benchmark indices Sensex and Nifty opened on a bullish note and hit record high levels in early trade on Tuesday, tracking positive cues from global markets amid improved risk appetite supported by fresh vaccine news. The 30-share BSE index rallied 274.66 points or 0.63 per cent to scale the fresh peak of 43,912.64. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty gained 74.45 points or 0.58 per cent to a lifetime high of 12,854.70. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 4 per cent, followed by Bharti Airtel, SBI, HDFC Bank, M&M, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Infosys, Bajaj Auto, ITC, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance were among the losers. In the special Muhurat trading session to mark the beginning of Hindu Samvat year 2077 on Saturday, BSE Sensex soared 194.98 points or 0.45 per cent to close at a record 43,637.98. The broader NSE Nifty advanced 60.30 points, or 0.47 per cent, to finish at its lifetime high of 12,780.25. Equity markets were closed on Monday on account of Balipratipada. On the global front, US equities surged to record high after biotech group Moderna said its Covid-19 vaccine was highly effective. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading higher in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. The wholesale price-based inflation on Monday rose to an eight-month high of 1.48 per cent in October, as manufactured products turned costlier. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.75 per cent to USD 44.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Piramal-Adani spat over DHFL||Piramal Enterprises has threatened to drop out of the bidding process for the assets of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) after the Adani group revised its offer for the troubled non-banking finance company (NBFC). Sources said the lenders to DHFL may meet on Tuesday where they could take a call on accepting the revised bid of the Adanis for the troubled lender. Adani Properties had earlier bid Rs 3,000 crore for the wholesale and the slum rehabilitation assets of DHFL. The Adanis have now bid for the entire portfolio, and their offer is more than the highest bid put in by Oaktree Capital of around Rs 31,000 crore. Piramal Enterprises has also recently revised its bid for the retail portfolio to Rs 26,500 crore. It had offered Rs 15,000 crore earlier. SC Lowy has offered Rs 2,300 crore for the non-slum book. The proposal from Adani Enterprises to bid for the entire company saw the Piramal group registering a protest. It wrote a letter to the administrator appointed by the RBI. Piramal said in the letter that the timing of submission of the fresh resolution plan by Adani Properties was intended to “disrupt and vitiate the process being followed under the current request for resolution plan (RFRP) and undermine the considerable time and effort invested by us and other participants in submitting our resolution plans” in accordance with the provisions of the RFRP. The letter says the offer submitted by the Adani group is not in accordance with the bidding process or under applicable law. If the creditors and administrator consider the revised resolution plan, Piramal would seek legal remedy or withdraw from the process, Piramal said. A spokesperson from the Piramal group declined to comment on the development. The offers of all these bidders are lower than that made by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan, who proposed to transfer the rights, title and interest in at least 10 projects valued at Rs 43,879 crore and settle the dues with banks. Wadhawan wrote to the RBI appointed administrator Subramaniakumar saying that their offer would ensure maximum value for the assets that have been put on the block.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||CIL relies on mechanised transportation for delivery ||Coal India is relying on mechanised transportation to cut down on the movement of the dry fuel from pitheads to dispatch points, curb pollution and reduce pilferage. The public sector miner has issued tenders for 35 mining projects across six subsidiaries for mechanised transportation and the setting up of coal handling plants and silos for rapid loading at an estimated cost of Rs 12,500 crore. The amount will be spent as part of the company’s own capital expenditure. At present, Coal India (CIL) spends around Rs 3,400 crore on transportation that can be brought down substantially through mechanised movement between pitheads and dispatch points. The miner estimates an internal rate of return of more than 12 per cent once the mechanisation takes shape by 2023-24. At present, mechanised conveyor system and computerised loading of coal is operational in CIL’s 19 projects with a combined capacity of 151 million tonnes per year. With the commissioning of the 35 projects, this would go up to 557mt per year. Under mechanised transportation, coal would be moved through piped conveyor belts. With reduced movement of coal laden trucks on road, this would bring down dust pollution and benefit individuals living in the proximity of mines. CIL is undertaking a study along with the National Environmental Engineering Institute, Calcutta, to assess the environmental benefits of these projects. Further, with reduced manual intervention, precise pre-weighted quantities of coal can be loaded. “Improved loading time will bring down wagon idling, thus increasing their availability. Easing the load on road networks induces savings on diesel along with positive environmental considerations,” said a senior executive of the company. Of the 35 projects, South Eastern Coalfields, Mahanadi Coalfields and Northern Coalfields account for nine projects each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Arjas buys assets of Modern Steel||Speciality steel producer Arjas Steel Pvt Ltd has acquired the assets of Chandigarh-based Modern Steel, setting foot in northern India and expanding capacity by 50 per cent. The transaction marks the first acquisition of Arjas, which used to be wholly owned by Gerdau SA of Brazil, before the Latin American company sold the Indian assets to private equity firm ADV Partners in a bid to focus on its core markets. Arjas operates an integrated steel plant at Tadipatri in Andhra Pradesh, producing alloy steel and focusing on the automotive and energy segments. With a capacity of 300,000 tonnes, it clocked a turnover of Rs 1,400 crore in the last fiscal. The acquirer will plough in close to Rs 125 crore for the deal, which includes Rs 86 crore for the assets and around Rs 40 crore for modernisation. BSE-listed Modern Steel is selling the assets to pay off creditors such as Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company. Sridhar Krishnamoorthy, managing director of Arjas, said the first priority would be to run the modern plants to the nameplate capacity of 150,000 tonnes and stabilise the operation. In the second phase, it would look at expansion and product diversification. The product line of the two units will complement each other. The northern asset will be called Arjas Modern Steel and supply to the customers of the region. “Our capacity should go up by 30-40 per cent in the first year of full operation and turnover reach about Rs 2,000 crore,” the MD told The Telegraph. The acquisition comes at a time the domestic as well as global economy is upended by the pandemic. Krishnamoorthy said a cautious approach must be taken while growing business during the phase. While concluding the deal — which is subject to closing transactions — Arjas itself has undertaken a brownfield expansion and value addition exercise. The company has embarked on a Rs 200-crore project whereby the capacity will go up to 350,000 tonnes. A heat treatment plant will also be set up to produce more value-added products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||SBI Funds top gun joins HDFC Mutual Fund||Navneet Munot has quit SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd (SBIFMPL) to join HDFC Mutual Fund as its managing director and CEO. Munot, who was the chief investment officer (CI)) of SBI Funds, will succeed the present managing director Milind Barve. “The board of directors...at its meeting held on November 16, has approved that Navneet Munot will be appointed as the managing director and CEO of the company and he will succeed the present managing director, Milind Barve,” HDFC Asset Management Company (HDFC AMC) said in a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges on Monday. In a statement, SBIFMPL said that Munot has decided to leave the organisation to pursue other opportunities. “Navneet has been part of this team of skilled and experienced senior fund managers and has overseen many of their achievements. We value his contribution to the organisation and wish him the best in all his future endeavours,”  said Vinay Tonse, MD & CEO, SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd. SBI Funds said that the fund management structure will continue to remain the same as the company over a period of time has built a very capable second line with strong vintage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Wholesale prices move up||A spike in potato prices pushed the wholesale price index to an eight month high of 1.48 per cent in October. Potato prices have leapt 107 per cent year-on-year. WPI inflation was 1.32 per cent in September and zero per cent in October last year. This is the highest level of the wholesale price index-based (WPI) inflation since February when it was 2.26 per cent. While food article prices softened in October, manufactured items witnessed hardening of prices, according to data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Monday. Food inflation in October stood at 6.37 per cent against 8.17 per cent in the previous month. The rate of price rise in vegetables and potato remained high at 25.23 per cent and 107.70 per cent, respectively, during the month. Inflation in non-food articles and minerals was higher at 2.85 per cent and 9.11 per cent, respectively. In the manufactured products category, inflation stood at 2.12 per cent in October, compared with 1.61 per cent in September. Prices in the fuel and power basket softened to (-) 10.95 per cent in October. Retail inflation, based on the consumer price index, was 7.61 per cent in October. “The WPI inflation is expected to remain stable in the next print, before recording base effect related volatility. Core inflation will continue to record a steady uptick in month-on-month terms over the next few months,” Aditi Nayar, principal economist of ICRA, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Big players stay out of BPCL race||The Centre on Monday said it had received a number of bids for state-owned refiner BPCL but indications are that Reliance Industries has not made any offer and neither have giants such as Saudi Aramco, Russia’s Rosneft, BP or Total. Sources said the government has received about three to four bids, including private equity funds and pension funds. Abu Dhabi National Oil Co, which has ambitions for the Indian market, is a potential bidder but it was not immediately known if it has put in an expression of interest. Mining billionaire Anil Agarwal is another potential bidder given his interest in the oil and gas business following  the $8.67-billion acquisition of Cairn India. “Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest have been received,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. “The transaction adviser has received multiple expressions of interest. The transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by the adviser,” said Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary in the department of investment and public asset management. The government plans to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL and has extended the deadline four times. The number of bids received are sufficient and the government will not extend the deadline any more. At Friday’s closing price of Rs 412.70 on the BSE, the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL is worth Rs 47,430 crore. Also, the acquirer would have to make an open offer to buy another 26 per cent stake from the public, which would cost Rs 23,276 crore. Sources said BPCL annually makes a profit of about Rs 8,000 crore and at this pace it would take 8-9 years for the investor to recover the bid amount of over Rs 70,000 crore. The acquisition makes sense for companies which can double profit by growing the business as well as through operational efficiencies and synergies with existing business in half that timeframe. After the EoIs, the government will open a data center for the interested bidders to do due diligence of the books of the company and its operations after which financial bids will be called.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
17-11-2020||Business||Actuaries sought  for LIC valuation||The mega initial public offering of Life Insurance Corp (LIC) may spill over to the next fiscal as the government on Monday took the first step to an independent actuarial valuation of the country’s largest insurer. The finance ministry has invited bids from actuarial firms to arrive at the embedded value of LIC ahead of its stake sale. The government plans to sell a minority stake in the insurance behemoth and list it on the bourses. It has already appointed Deloitte and SBI Caps as the pre IPO transaction advisers. In the bid notice, the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) said LIC needed to develop an Indian Embedded Value (IEV) reporting framework to make the disclosures for the proposed initial public offering (IPO). Embedded value is a common valuation measure used to estimate the consolidated value of shareholders’ interest in an insurance company. The request for proposal has been issued to seek bids  from reputed and eligible actuarial firms to work with LIC to “develop IEV in line with the requirements of the relevant Acts and regulations, Actuarial Practice Standards and guidance notes issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India and LIC Act, 1956, and to provide support during the IPO process”, it said. The last date for the submission of bids is December 8. Deloitte and SBI Caps have been working with LIC to list out the items of compliance.  The legislative amendment to facilitate the IPO by making changes in the LIC Act is being worked out by the Department of Financial Services. The department is working out amendments to Sections 24, 28 and 37 of the LIC Act. Section 24 deals with the way the corporation handles its corpus, Section 28 is about dividend distribution and Section 37 provides government guarantee on all its policies. At present, LIC pays 5 per cent of the surplus to the government, while the remaining 95 per cent goes to its policyholders. In comparison, private insurance companies pay 10 per cent of their surplus to shareholders and the rest goes to the policyholders. The amendment to the LIC Act could possibly bring the state-owned insurance firm on a par with other insurance companies. In the 2020-21 budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the government's plan to sell a part of its holding in LIC. by way of IPO. "Listing of companies on stock exchanges disciplines the company and provides access to financial markets and unlocks its value. It also gives an opportunity for retail investors to participate in the wealth so created," she had said. The government has budgeted to collect Rs 2.10 lakh crore from stake sales this fiscal. This include Rs 1.20 lakh crore from CPSE disinvestment and Rs 90,000 crore from selling stakes in financial institutions. So far this fiscal, the government has been able to mop up Rs 6,138 crore from the divestment of PSUs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
17-11-2020||Business||Mixed impact of stimulus ||The third tranche of stimulus measures unveiled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has got a thumbs-up from Fitch Solutions which said that the announcements should lead to an economic rebound over the coming quarters. However, it felt that the package’s actual impact on public finances was difficult to ascertain. Last week, the Centre had announced a stimulus package  totaling Rs 2.65 lakh crore. The package included a boost to formal employment, a production-linked (PLI) incentive scheme, an increase in fertiliser subsidy and allocation to rural employment programme MGNREGA. In a report, Fitch Solutions said India’s fiscal deficit is likely to be 7.8 per cent of GDP in the current fiscal. “While many of the measures should support India’s economic rebound over the coming quarters, the actual impact on public finances is difficult to ascertain,” it observed. Fitch added that the PLI scheme, for instance, spans across a five-year period, and their fiscal impact is likely to be seen from 2021-22. “Estimating using the outright fiscal outlays from this announcement, the stimulus appears to suggest additional expenditure of Rs 1 lakh crore (0.44 per cent of 2019-20 GDP),” it noted. China’s factory output rose faster-than-expected in October and retail sales sped up as recovery in the world’s second-largest economy from its Covid-19 slump gathered momentum. Industrial production climbed 6.9 per cent in October from a year earlier, in line with September’s gain and faster than the 6.5-per-cent rise expected by analysts. The upbeat figures came as other Asian powerhouses also climbed out from their pandemic depths with Japan’s economy reporting its fastest quarterly growth on record.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
17-11-2020||Business||Inflation spanner in RBI plans||The Reserve Bank of India is in a bind on whether to check prices or kickstart recovery with retail inflation at its highest since May 2014 while the economy is now in “technical recession”. Consumer price inflation (CPI) in October rose to 7.61 per cent from 7.27 per cent in the preceding month thus remaining above the central bank’s medium term target (4 per cent with a band of +/-2 per cent) for the seventh straight month. A large part of the headline inflation was because of elevated food prices. But a bigger concern is core inflation, which is inflation leaving aside food & beverages and fuel. Core inflation is at 5.47 per cent which indicates transmission of food inflation to non-food segments. The monetary policy committee of the RBI with its mandate to keep a check on prices will now be keen to raise rates — but this could wreck the possibility of an economic recovery. “The monetary policy committee is in a difficult situation with inflation breaching 6 per cent three consecutive quarters, growth being low and India having a recession (two consecutive quarters of negative growth) once the second quarter 2020-21 GDP numbers are released,” said Devendra Kumar Pant, chief economist at India Ratings & Research, on the dilemma before the RBI. Economists are, however, of the view the interest rate setting body is likely to continue its accommodative stance and choose the option of a pause in the policy repo rate as  it waits for inflation to cool down. The MPC is set to meet again in December and the overwhelming expectation is that the repo rate will stay put at 4 per cent which is the lowest ever. The RBI has already reduced the repo rate by 250 basis points since February 2019 leading to questions on whether the economy is at the end of the rate cut cycle with elevated inflation which has the potential of affecting a nascent recovery. “The RBI would wait for inflation to subside before taking any monetary policy measures. Till then it will continue with unconventional steps and a long pause on the repo rate. We can at best expect another 25 basis points cut sometime only next year,’’ an analyst with a foreign brokerage said. This view is in line with the widely accepted thought that the central bank will prefer to go into a status-quo mode for now and do nothing on rates for the next three to six months. In its November bulletin, the RBI has cautiously raised the prospect of a revival in the third quarter from an earlier forecast of a 5.6 per cent contraction. However, at the same time it has warned about inflation. Economists are expecting inflation will cool down in the weeks ahead simply because of a lower base effect. However, rising crude oil prices and a general upside in commodity prices especially base metals could scupper these hopes. “While inflation is expected to taper, we are sceptical on the extent of pullback, as a move towards the 4 per cent target is likely to be an uphill task, if non-food components continue to harden,” says  Radhika Rao, economist at DBS Group Research. Sonal Varma at Nomura is optimistic of a cut in the next calendar year. “We expect October to mark the inflation peak, and if current food price trends persist, November and December should see some cooling off. Growth is yet to pick up adequately to durably generate broad-based demand-side pressures,”she said. Nomura expects the RBI to press the pause button at its December 5 policy meeting. However, because of moderating inflation it projects a 50 basis points of policy easing in the first half of 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-234
