18-11-2020||Business||Sensex ends above 44,000 for first time||Equity benchmarks scaled record highs for the third straight session on Wednesday as investors accumulated banking, auto and engineering stocks amid firm global cues and unabated foreign fund inflows. The BSE Sensex vaulted 227.34 points or 0.52 per cent to close above the 44,000-level for the first time at 44,180.05. Intra-day, it touched its lifetime high of 44,215.49. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 64.05 points or 0.50 per cent to end at its all-time high of 12,938.25, after making an intra-day record of 12,948.85. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring 10.76 per cent, followed by L&T, IndusInd Bank, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bajaj Finance, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank and Axis Bank. On the other hand, HUL, ITC, Titan, TCS, Bharti Airtel and Infosys were among the losers, shedding up to 2.07 per cent. According to traders, largely positive cues from global markets and persistent foreign fund inflows buoyed market sentiment. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,905.35 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Global equities held steady after the recent rally fuelled by encouraging COVID-19 vaccine trials, though the steadily rising coronavirus cases weighed on risk sentiment. Domestic equities continued to maintain their northward move mainly led by rebound in financials and automobiles, said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities, adding that strong buying continued in mid-cap and small-cap stocks. "A healthy improvement in earnings outlook of financials and visibility over asset quality continued to support financial stocks. Rotational trade also remained visible where IT, FMCG and Pharma remained laggards and cyclical and beaten down stocks witnessed sharp upmove," he said. BSE capital goods, auto, industrials, realty, bankex and finance indices surged up to 3.72 per cent, while FMCG, IT, teck, telecom and healthcare closed with losses. Lakshmi Vilas Bank slumped 20 per cent to hit its lower circuit after the cash-strapped lender was put under moratorium due to its precarious financial health. T N Manoharan, the RBI-appointed administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank, on Wednesday said depositors' money is safe and expressed confidence of completing the lender's merger with DBS Bank India within the deadline set by the regulator. Meanwhile, the broader BSE midcap and smallcap indices rallied as much as 1.22 per cent. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe also largely opened with gains. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.85 per cent higher at USD 44.12 per barrel. The rupee continued its winning momentum for the third session in a row on Wednesday, rising 27 paise to settle at 74.19 against the US dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Sensex crosses 44,000 mark in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex crossed the 44,000 mark for the first time in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in financial stocks amid largely positive cues from other Asian markets and persistent foreign fund inflow. After touching its lifetime intra-day high of 44,051.66, the 30-share BSE index was trading 55.15 points or 0.13 per cent higher at 44,007.86. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 19.10 points or 0.15 per cent to 12,893.30. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 1 per cent, followed by SBI, M&M, L&T, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and ONGC. On the other hand, HUL, Titan, Tech Mahindra, Nestle India and TCS were among the losers. In the previous session, BSE Sensex settled 314.73 points or 0.72 per cent higher at its new closing record of 43,952.71. Nifty too finished 93.95 points or 0.74 per cent up at its lifetime peak of 12,874.20. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,905.35 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic markets look to be flat amid mixed global trends. However, Nifty is poised to touch the psychological 13,000 mark shortly as underlying strength remains intact," said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. Improved prospects of corporate earnings will continue to aid mid-cap and small-cap stocks to outperform large caps in the near term and rotational trade is also expected to remain visible, he noted. The Supreme Court's hearing on interest on loan moratorium is scheduled for later in the day, which may have an impact on bank stocks, Mahajan added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading higher in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Bourses in the US ended on a negative note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading flat at USD 43.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Lakshmi Vilas Bank to merge with DBS||Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) will be merged with DBS Bank India after the government on Tuesday placed the troubled private sector lender under moratorium because of its deteriorating financial position. DBS Bank India (DBIL) is a subsidiary of the Singapore-based DBS Bank Ltd (DBS). This is the first instance in recent times where the RBI is merging a private sector lender with a foreign bank. It comes months after the central bank came up with a rescue plan for Yes Bank, while in September last year it placed restrictions on the PMC Bank. The swift action from the RBI came minutes after the government put out a notification placing the Tamil Nadu based bank under moratorium as requested in an application made by the RBI. Simultaneously, the central bank superceded the board of directors of LVB for a period of 30 days. T.N. Manoharan, former executive chairman of Canara Bank, has been appointed as the administrator of the lender. The one-month moratorium, which began from 6pm on Tuesday, will last till December 16. During this period, cash withdrawals by depositors have been capped at Rs 25,000. However, depositors can withdraw more than Rs 25,000 to meet medical expenses for self or a dependant person, to pay for higher education of the depositor or any dependent, to meet expenses for weddings or other ceremonies of the depositor or their dependents. The additional sum can be withdrawn for any other unavoidable emergency situations as well. The amalgamation with DBIL, however, brings with it some bad news for LVB shareholders. The RBI said from the “appointed date”, the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus, including the balances in the share or securities premium account of the transferor bank will be written off. This means LVB will be delisted from the bourses with shareholders getting nothing. For any interest bearing deposit accounts, DBIL will pay interest at the rate applicable under the prevailing policy of LVB till the appointed date. After this date, depositors of LVB will get interest rates similar to that offered by the foreign lender. DBIL is a wholly owned subsidiary of DBS Bank Ltd, Singapore, which in turn is a subsidiary of Asia’s leading financial services group, DBS Group Holdings and has the advantage of a strong parentage. It has been issued a banking licence to operate as a banking company under Section 22 (1) of the B R Act, on October 4, 2018. DBIL has a healthy balance sheet. As on June 30, 2020, its total regulatory capital was Rs 7,109 crore (against capital of Rs 7,023 crore as on March 31, 2020). As on June 30, 2020, its gross NPAs and net NPAs were low at 2.7 per cent and 0.5 per cent, respectively; the capital to risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR) was comfortable at 15.99 per cent (against the requirement of 9 per cent); and the common equity Tier-1 (CET-1) capital at 12.84 per cent was well above the requirement of 5.5 per cent. Although the DBIL is well capitalised, it will bring in an additional capital of Rs 2,500 crore upfront to support credit growth of the merged entity. The combined balance sheet of DBIL would remain healthy after the proposed amalgamation, with CRAR at 12.51 per cent and CET-1 capital at 9.61 per cent, without taking into account the infusion of additional capital. The RBI had stepped in after LVB’s financials weakened as its losses widened to Rs 397 crore for the September quarter of 2020 against a loss of Rs 357 crore in the year-ago period because of a rise in bad loans and provisions. The bank was in the news in September when shareholders voted out seven members from the board, including the then MD and CEO S Sundar. Later the RBI appointed a three-member committee of directors to run its daily affairs. LVB was also in talks with Gurgaon-based Clix group for a merger to bring in the much required capital, which did not fructify. The RBI said LVB’s financial position has steadily declined with the bank incurring losses over the last three years, eroding its net-worth. In the absence of any viable strategic plan, declining advances and mounting non-performing assets (NPAs), the losses will widen. “The bank management had indicated that it was in talks with certain investors. However, it failed to submit any concrete proposal to the RBI and the bank’s efforts to enhance its capital through amalgamation of an NBFC with itself appears to have reached a dead end,” it added. The RBI also sought to assure depositors that their interests will be fully protected. The RBI said DBIL will bring in additional capital of Rs 2500 crore upfront. The combined balance sheet of DBIL will remain healthy after the proposed amalgamation with a capital adequacy ratio of 12.51 per cent. The banking regulator added that since bank-led and market-led revival efforts were a preferred option over a regulatory resolution, it had allowed the bank enough opportunities to draw up a credible revival plan or an amalgamation scheme, which did not materialise. “After taking into consideration these developments, ...there is no alternative but to apply to the central government to impose a moratorium under section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949,’’ it disclosed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||ONGC to put Bengal on oil map||The commercial production of gas from ONGC’s Ashoknagar block is expected to begin soon, bringing Bengal on to the energy map of the country, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Tuesday. He said “ONGC is moving towards commercial production from its block in Bengal which would put it on the oil map of the country”. Industry sources said commercial production of the block in the North 24-Parganas district could start before the end of this fiscal and the initial output could be 120 cubic metres. Speaking at the contract signing ceremony of the fifth bid round of the Open Acreage Licensing Policy (OALP), oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said with the latest bid round, the government has in the last four years awarded 1.56 lakh square kilometres of acreage to find and produce oil and gas. This compares with 90,000 sq km of area awarded in the nine rounds of the New Exploration Licensing Policy (Nelp) and pre-Nelp awards in the previous two decades. Pradhan asked exploration companies to consider farming out their acreages to global players with advanced technology to expedite development and raise oil and gas output. The nation’s oil and gas output has been stagnant for years, forcing it to raise reliance on imports to meet rising fuel demand. “The government will grant petroleum mining lease rights but the companies should consider a farm-out (of a stake) to get global technology players,” Pradhan said. Red tape and multiple permissions have in the past led to several slippages in the committed timelines. “Tell us, if you need more help,” Pradhan said, asking explorers to give suggestions on improving the regulatory environment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Sensex sets a new record||Key indices on Tuesday hit record peaks following encouraging data from another Covid-19 vaccine trial, abundant global liquidity and better-than-expected factory output from China. The 30-share Sensex crossed the 44000-mark during intra-day trade and touched a lifetime high of 44161.16 after which it gave up some of the gains to finish at 43952.71 which was still a new closing record. The gains came as Wall Street vaulted to lifetime highs in the overnight session after US-based biotechnology giant Moderna said its Covid-19 vaccine candidate was found to be 94.5 per cent effective in Phase 3 trials. The announcement came just a week after Pfizer and BioNtech said their vaccine was more than 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19, based on preliminary data. It strengthened expectations of a sharp global recovery next year even as data from China showed factory output rising more than expected. Global liquidity with central banks following accommodative policies is one of the key factors that is driving the momentum with encouraging high frequency data improving the confidence among investors. This comes after a better-than-expected corporate earnings for the second quarter ended September 30 and reduction in fresh number of Covid-19 cases in several parts of the country. The optimistic sentiment has seen Morgan Stanley raising its target for the Sensex to 50000 by December 2021 against an earlier target of 37300 by June 2021. “We expect growth to surprise on the upside, rates trough to be behind, and real rates to remain in the negative territory for several months,” Morgan Stanley said. It presented a bull case target of 59000 for the 30-share index, indicating a 35 per cent upside from the current level, assuming the virus situation improves, recovery in growth is sustained and global stimulus supports asset prices. In a bear case scenario, it sees the Sensex fall to 37,000, a 15 per cent drop from the current level, if the virus issue lingers into 2021 and growth falters as India fails to deliver an adequate policy response leading to losses in the financial system. The Sensex on Tuesday opened above the 44000-mark at 44095.85 and scaled an intra-day high of 44161.16, a gain of over 523 points. It gave some of the gains to close at 43952.71, up 314.73 points which was still a new closing record. The NSE Nifty touched a fresh intra-day high of 12934.05 and finally finished 93.95 points, or 0.74 per cent, up at its lifetime peak of 12874.20. Shares of BPCL, however, dropped over 4 per cent after the government received multiple expressions of interest for stake purchase in the company even as some of the big names did not put in any initial bids. The stock fell 4.42 per cent to close at Rs 394.45 on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Embassy REIT to acquire ETV for Rs 9,782.4 crore||In the largest single property commercial deal in the country, Embassy REIT on Tuesday said it has agreed to acquire business park Embassy TechVillage (ETV) in Bangalore for Rs 9,782.4 crore. Embassy REIT is India’s first publicly listed REIT (Real Estate Investment Trust) sponsored by Blackstone and Embassy group. It got listed on the stock exchanges last year. Embassy REIT would acquire the business park from Embassy group, Blackstone and some other investors. This deal would make Embassy REIT one of the largest REITs in Asia in terms of office space. The buyout comprises 6.1 million sq ft of completed office space, 3.1 million sq ft of under-construction area and two proposed 518-keys Hilton hotels in the Embassy Tech Village campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Pfizer to sue Indian drug duo||Pfizer Inc and its group companies filed a petition in a US court against Aurobindo Pharma and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories alleging that the Indian drug makers were planning separately to come out with generic versions of its blockbuster multi-billion dollar drug Ibrance (palbociclib) before the expiration of its patent. Pfizer filed the possible patent infringement case against Aurobindo Pharma in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and Dr Reddy’s in the New Jersey court. Palbociclib is used to treat certain types of breast cancer. Ibrance clocked nearly $5 billion in revenues globally, including $3.25 billion in the US in 2019. In March 2019, several generic companies had filed abbreviated new drug applications with the USFDA to market generic versions of Ibrance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||DHFL lenders allow new bids||Lenders of troubled non-banking finance company, Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL), on Tuesday allowed all applicants to submit revised offers. Following this, the Piramal group is understood to have again revised its offer for the retail portfolio of DHFL. It had recently revised its bid for the retail portfolio to Rs 26,500 crore from an offer of Rs 15,000 crore earlier. The move by Piramal Enterprises came after Adani Properties made key changes to its bid. While the Adani group had earlier bid Rs 3,000 crore for the wholesale and Slum Rehabilitation Authority assets, it recently offered around Rs 250 crore more than that given by Oaktree Capital for the entire book. Oaktree Capital had cited a bid price of around Rs 31,000 crore. Sources said that the committee of creditors did not take any decision on Tuesday and that it will respond over the next few days to the revised bid made by the Adani group. The Piramal group had protested against the fresh bid made by Adani Properties and it wrote a letter to the administrator appointed by the RBI. Shares of DHFL were locked in the upper circuit on Tuesday. It settled at Rs 18.45, a gain of 4.83 per cent over the previous close on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||Sale of Tata Dutch unit on course||Swedish steel maker SSAB will complete the due diligence of Tata Steel’s Netherlands business in two months, potentially leading to a binding agreement for the sale of the Dutch unit. The company said the proceeds of the sale may be able to pay part or all of the 1.7-billion-euro debt on Tata Steel Europe’s books as deleveraging the balance sheet becomes key to the Indian steel maker’s business plan going forward. A sale of the Ijmuiden operations will leave the Tatas with the UK business for which the company is seeking a more “substantive and permanent” solution from the Boris Jonson government. So far it has received only short-term assistance. A research report put out by Edelweiss suggested that the deal may be done at a valuation of six times of through-the-cycle EBIDTA, using the recently stitched transaction between ArcelorMittal and Cleveland Cliffs for the US business as the benchmark. Going by those metrics, the 7-million-tonne Ijmuiden steel asset could fetch as much as $3 billion, or Rs 22,500 crore. Edelweiss believes the possibility of better cash proceeds may be expected as Tata Steel Netherlands is one of the most profitable assets in Europe. The management said the deal was likely to face less hurdles than what it faced with the Thyssenkrupp transaction, which failed to get approval from the European Commission. “There were overlaps in packaging and automotive business with Thyssenkrupp. Some of the user industries raised objections to that transaction. We do not see such issues with SSAB,” said T.V. Narendran, managing director and CEO of Tata Steel. Tata Steel has started the process of separating the UK and Dutch operations and consultations with the Dutch government, unions and the supervisory board are on. The company’s stock reacted to the SSAB announcement and stellar performance of the India business as many brokerages upgraded the stock to buy. It touched a 52-week high of Rs 530.95 on the NSE during the trading hours before closing at Rs 522.70, up Rs 30.6, or 6.2 per cent. On the BSE, too, shares touched their 52-week high of Rs 530.80 before ending at Rs 522.80, up 6.24 per cent. In India, the company said it would focus on growing the flat steel business at Jamshedpur, Kalinganagar and Angul and may not participate if and when NMDC’s steel plant comes up for sale. However, Narendran said Tata Steel would be interested in the disinvestment of public sector Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd (NINL), which is based in Odisha. “It is a long product producer and it is something we may see,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
18-11-2020||Business||AirAsia hints at India exit||Malaysia’s flagship budget carrier AirAsia Group Bhd has given its strongest indication to date that it could exit India, saying on Tuesday it was reviewing its investment in a joint venture airline there. The group said in a statement that its operations in India, like those of its now-shuttered Japan business, have been draining cash and adding to the group’s financial stress. “Cost containment and reducing cash burn remain key priorities evident by the recent closure of AirAsia Japan and an ongoing review of our investment in AirAsia India,” it said. AirAsia shut operations in Japan, the smallest of its foreign offshoots, last month. The airline owns 49 per cent of AirAsia India, a joint venture with Tata Sons. According to a media report last month, Tata Sons’ parent is in discussions to buy AirAsia Group’s stake. Group chief executive officer Tony Fernandes told Reuters in September that the group intends to consolidate and strengthen its Asean foothold, which could mean one day exiting both Japan and India. AirAsia Group said it remains confident of returning stronger, more robust and faster than many competitors, given strong signs of recovery in its key domestic markets because of pent-up demand and numerous Covid-19 vaccines in near final stages of testing. “The general outlook is that air travel will be bouncing back real soon; we expect to get back to pre-pandemic levels on many routes across the Group by mid-2021, if not earlier,” president for the group’s airlines, Bo Lingam, said. AirAsia Group’s share price touched its highest since June 29 on Tuesday in a second consecutive day of sharp gains, likely buoyed by news that US vaccine maker Moderna Inc’s experimental vaccine is 94.5 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage trial. Shares in its long-haul arm AirAsia X Bhd rose as much as 14 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
18-11-2020||Business||Few opt for RBI’s one time debt restructuring scheme||Crisil Ratings, an S&P Global company, on Tuesday said as many as 99 per cent of the non-MSME corporate houses it has rated are unlikely to opt for the Reserve Bank of India’s one time debt restructuring scheme. The firm has done an analysis covering 3,523 non-MSME borrowers and only around 1 per cent indicated that they would apply for the scheme despite two thirds of the entities being eligible for the same based on parameters proposed by the KV Kamath Committee set up by the RBI. The regulator in August had announced a one time debt restructuring scheme (OTDR) for non-msme corporate borrowers under stress because of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Crisil, expectations of a recovery next fiscal is making corporate houses rethink plans to restructure their loans. “Improving business sentiment on account of increased economic activity over the past couple of months and expectations of a sharp recovery next fiscal are persuading borrowers to skip OTDR. “Another deterrent is the impact on the borrower's long term credit history — accounts of those opting for OTDR would be classified as restructured advances by lenders, which could impact their ability to raise debt in future,” said Subodh Rai, senior director, Crisil Ratings. Crisil said for around 44 per cent of the rated corporates, more than three fourth of their debt comprises short term working capital facilities and for those firms, OTDR would have negligible benefits as the resolution plan under this scheme is focussed on deferring principal repayment of long term debt. Instead of a debt recast, such borrowers may opt for additional working capital financing, Crisil said. The report added that in the earlier phase of the lockdown, 968 companies, or around 27 per cent of the sample set had opted for moratorium allowed by the RBI. Bankers said that unlike earlier instances corporates have become more aware about leveraging, restructuring and its impact on their credit rating amid possibility of losing control on enterprises through the insolvency proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-233
