19-11-2020||Business||Sensex drops over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 240.96 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 43,939.09 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty declined 62.80 points or 0.49 per cent to 12,875.45. PowerGrid was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC duo, Asian Paints and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, L&T, Tata Steel and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, BSE Sensex ended 227.34 points or 0.52 per cent higher at its record closing of 44,180.05, while Nifty advanced 64.05 points or 0.50 per cent to end at its all-time high of 12,938.25. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,071.93 crore on Wednesday, according to provisional exchange data. Asian markets are trading lower mainly taking cues for US markets, said Arjun Yash Mahajan Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. However, underlying strength in domestic markets continues to look good and any meaningful downside will be used as an opportunity to buy quality stocks, he noted. US markets closed lower as decision to close public school system by New York City officials to contain virus dampened investors' sentiments despite positive announcement made by Pfizer about improved efficacy of its vaccine candidate along with BioNTech. Decision by the New York City officials raised concerns about whether more states may opt for economic restrictions due to rapid rise in new COVID-19 cases, said Mahajan. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading in the red in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the positive territory. Bourses in the US ended on a negative note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.56 per cent lower at USD 44.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Renault Kiger launch next year||Renault India will expand its product range and segment presence with the launch of its compact SUV Kiger in the first quarter of next year. The Kiger will be built on the same platform as Tribe. Renault will also introduce an all-new engine with the Kiger. Renault had earlier unveiled the Kiger show car on which the new SUV is designed and developed. The actual Renault Kiger will have an 80 per cent similarity to the show car in terms of design. Venkatram Mamillapalle, country CEO & managing director, Renault India Operations, said, “After Kwid and Triber, Renault Kiger is the third global car from Groupe Renault to be launched in India first, followed by other markets.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||TCG blends oil, tech solutions||The Chatterjee Group controlled Lummus Technology and TCG Digital are coming together to harness emerging digital transformation opportunities in the oil and gas sector. The firms have floated a joint venture — Lummus Digital — which will work with existing and potential customers of the two companies based in India, the United States, West Asia and Europe. TCG had acquired Lummus in partnership with private equity firm Rhone Capital for $2.725 billion in June. This marks one of the early initiatives of TCG to sweat the vast knowledge base and proprietary technologies of the 110-year old Lummus in a world upended by the pandemic. The venture will aid Lummus’ clients — which include some of the leading names in the oil and gas sector — to implement digital analysis and operative solutions in their refining, petrochemical, and gas processing assets and across the hydrocarbon processing value chain. Purnendu Chatterjee, chairman of TCG, said the JV would provide an edge with digitalisation in these difficult times. “This joint venture will co-create and innovate with other areas of the group such as TCG Crest, our research university, LabVantage and Haldia Petrochemicals,” Chatterjee said in a statement. Lummus Digital will offer big data, advanced analytics, artificial intelligence, process simulations, proprietary know-how, and 24/7 advisory services, the company said. Commenting on the partnership, Leon de Bruyn, president and CEO of Lummus Technology, said the initiative would ensure the company’s position as industry leader at the forefront of innovation. The solutions are designed to maximise economic benefit through digitalisation; ensure operators and technicians are equipped with the insights to improve efficiency and reliability of their operations and assets. The products will enhance the safety of the operating staff; bolster decision-making capabilities of the management, and provide flexibility to quickly adapt operations to changing market dynamics, the statement said. Debdas Sen, CEO of TCG Digital, said, “Lummus Digital will leverage the TCG mcube data platform to drive operational excellence, improve plant safety, enhance reliability, and increase margins.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Insuretech start-up Turtlemint raises $30m||Insuretech start-up Turtlemint has raised $30 million (Rs 225 crore) in a funding round led by venture capital firm GGV Capital. New investors American Family Ventures, MassMutual Ventures and SIG, along with existing investors Sequoia Capital India, Blume Ventures, Nexus Venture Partners, Dream Incubator and Trifecta Capital participated in the round. The funds raised will be used to increase the reach of insurance and financial products by investing in technology solutions, reaching out to tier 2 and tier 3 towns and upskilling advisers through training. Launched in 2015, the Turtlemint platform currently partners more than 40 insurers, and caters to more than 1.5 million customers. “For over five years, Turtlemint through its ‘Point of Sales Person’ model has been empowering insurance advisers across India,” said Turtlemint co-founder Dhirendra Mahyavanshi. “Our target is to create a million successful financial entrepreneurs over the next 3-5 years,” said co-founder Anand Prabhudesai. “Insurance is one of the largest and fastest growing markets in India. Through its products, Turtlemint is enabling the small insurance advisor with choice of insurance manufacturer, efficiency in policy issuance and claims,” said Harshjit Sethi, Principal, Sequoia Capital India LLP. “In this time, we saw our advisers wholeheartedly embrace our digital solutions, resulting in a 2.5x boost to their business,” added Mahyavanshi. True Balance Fintech firm True Balance on Wednesday said it has raised $28 million (about Rs 207.7 crore) in funding from SoftBank Ventures Asia, Daesung Private Equity and others.  The Series D round also saw participation from Naver, BonAngels and Shinhan Capital, a statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||PSUs in fresh bidding for BPCL ||The government is exploring various options in the BPCL stake sale exercise if no financial bids are received or if these are lower than the price that the government expects. Such a situation has arisen in the wake of energy giants staying clear of the BPCL bidding. Metals and minerals major Vedanta on Wednesday confirmed it has bid for the entire government stake of 52.98 per cent in BPCL. Others believed to have put in bids include two to three private equity funds and pension funds. “Vedanta's EoI for BPCL is to evaluate potential synergies with our existing oil and gas business. The EoI is at a preliminary stage and exploratory in nature,” a company spokesperson said in a statement. Sources said the government is mulling at different options in the absence of any bids from Reliance Industries as well as from global giants such as Saudi Aramco, Rosneft, BP or Total. The sources said a contingency measure, or a Plan B, is a possibility if the bidders after access to the data room do not bid or if  they quote much lower that the government estimates. Among the options being considered is to call for a fresh bidding for BPCL and the biggest change could be to allow the state-owned firms like IOC and ONGC to bid. In the current round, they were barred from putting in their bids. If the state-run oil firms are allowed, it could be repeat of the HPCL sale to ONGC. The exploration firm had bought the government’s entire 51.11 per cent stake in oil refiner HPCL for Rs 36,915 crore in 2018. “For strategic disinvestment of BPCL, multiple expressions of interest have been received by the Transaction Adviser. The Transaction will move to the second stage after scrutiny by TA,” the government had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Emami forays into home care segment||Emami has forayed into the Rs 4,000-crore home hygiene space with a suit of products to cash in on the changing consumption pattern during Covid times. The Calcutta-based FMCG player, which was so far present in the personal care and healthcare space, has entered the new category with the ‘Emasol’ brand. It has signed up cricketer Shikhar Dhawan as the brand ambassador. Director Mohan Goenka said the home hygiene segment has been growing in double digits even before the pandemic. “We are seeing frequent cleaning at home across all economic stratas. The category is expected to grow faster going forward,” Goenka said. A Worldpanel Kantar report says the use of toilet cleaners have gone up by 47 per cent, floor cleaners by 41 per cent and disinfectant use by 28 per cent in the post-Covid world. Nielsen category trends show that e-commerce channels recorded a growth of around 80 per cent for floor and toilet cleaners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Telecom operators mull rate hike to boost revenue||Telecom operators are likely to hike tariff by about 20 per cent before the year-end or early next year to boost their revenues as economic activity has shown signs of picking up and demand for data has gone up. A 20 per cent tariff hike could drive up Vodafone Idea’s average revenue per user (ARPU) to Rs 140 in 2021-22, a report by Motilal Oswal said on Wednesday. Bharti Airtel may follow suit but both will closely watch rival Reliance Jio’s moves and calibrate their rates accordingly. This is on the expected lines as the firms are struggling with cash burn and are trying to raise funds, analysts said. After the second-quarter results were out, Ravinder Takkar, Vodafone Idea (Vi) CEO, told analysts that “ongoing consultations around floor price (for data rates) doesn’t stop anyone from hiking tariffs, but the timing has to be right... the tariff hike decision is not far away”. However, Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal said while they would hike the tariff, it will surely not be the first operator to do so and will follow its peers. The report said Vi requires an ARPU hike of 74 per cent to achieve an EBITDA of Rs 300 billion to address its cash obligation sustainably in 2022-23, including the deferred spectrum payments. Vi also needs to arrest its subscriber churn to realise the benefit of the price hike, said the report. Motilal Oswal maintains Vi under “review” because of its liquidity crunch and limited clarity on business continuity. A 20 per cent hike could raise Airtel’s and Jio’s ARPU to Rs 178 and Rs 167, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Hearing in Tata-Mistry case from December 2||Supreme Court on Wednesday said it will conduct from December 2 a “final hearing” on Tata Sons’ petition challenging the Shapoorji Pallonji Group’s decision to pledge its shares to a Canadian firm. Tata Sons has contested the Mistry camp's move to pledge its holding on the ground that the articles of association of the holding company confer a right of first refusal to the Tata group. The court also listed for final hearing the cross appeals filed by Tata Sons and Cyrus Investments against appellate tribunal NCLAT’s order which had restored Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of Tata Sons. “We will post the matter for final hearing,” Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, heading a three-judge bench, told senior advocates Harish Salve and  Aryama Sundaram appearing for the Tata and Pallonji groups, respectively. Though Sundaram tried to make certain references to the additional affidavit filed by the Pallonji group, the CJI cut short the arguments saying:  “We have kept the matter for final hearing on December 2, why do you keep filing additional affidavits? Will everything not be covered in final hearing?” The bench includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian. In effect, the court will commence an elaborate hearing from December 2 on the rival claims, which is expected to spill over for several days before a final verdict is passed. Tata Sons has challenged the Pallonji Group’s agreement with Canada-based Brookfield to raise Rs 3,750 crore by pledging Tata Sons shares on the ground that the  Articles of Association (AoA) of the Tata’s restrict Pallonji Group from transferring shares without allowing Tata Sons the right of first refusal. However, the Pallonji Group is opposing Tata Sons’ plea on the ground that pledging of shares is not the same as that of transferring absolute ownership of shares to the Canadian firm. On September 22, the bench had directed the Pallonji group to maintain “status quo” with regard to transfer or pledging of its shares in Tata Sons. Both the parties had agreed to abide by any orders passed by the top court on the issue but wanted an early resolution of the dispute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Spotlight on Future Retail, Amazon ties||Details are emerging of Amazon holding controlling rights in Future Retail Limited (FRL) as the two parties slug it out in the Delhi high court over the acquisition of the Kishore Biyani-company by Reliance Retail. In the Delhi court, Future Retail is seeking to restrain Amazon which armed with the order of a Singapore arbitrator wants to stop the Reliance-Future deal. Amazon holding controlling rights in Future Retail has led to questions on whether the US online giant  is running foul of investment rules in multi-brand retail. Amazon on the other hand says it does not have any operational control over Future Retail and the agreement only tries to protect its investments. On August 22, 2019, Future Retail had informed the stock exchanges that existing shareholders forming part of the promoter group and Future Coupons Limited (FCL) entered into a share subscription agreement and a shareholders’ agreement with Amazon. Amazon has agreed to make an equity investment in Future Coupons for acquiring a 49 per cent stake comprising both voting and non-voting shares. A call option allowed Amazon to acquire all or part of the promoters’ shareholding in Future  Retail and is exercisable between the third to tenth years, in certain circumstances. However, 10 days ahead of this announcement, FRL had entered into a shareholders agreement with Future Coupons and other promoters to record certain rights and obligations of Future Coupons and the latter. Due to such an agreement, the interpretation is that Amazon has control rights in FRL, though the law does not provide that. Amazon had reportedly contended that it could have invested up to 9.9 per cent in Future Retail under the FPI route and that under the current transaction if conflated, it merely held 4.81 per cent in FRL through FCL and that it along with the 4.81 per cent only held “protective rights”/“passive rights” in FRL, which do not amount to ''control''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Sumitomo Bank announces capital infusion of $600 million in India||Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC) of Japan has announced a capital infusion of $600 million in India and said it would open its third branch in Chennai. The funding doubles the capital commitment of the global banking corporation to $1.2 billion, the bank said. The other two branches of the bank are in New Delhi and Mumbai. The Chennai branch will cater to Indian and foreign companies operating in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring regions. Automotive, consumer durables, technology are among the sectors that stand to benefit from the expansion. SMBC Group is also looking to provide syndicated and bilateral loans and specialist financial advisory services for project, trade and asset finance as well as deposits and foreign exchange services in southern India. “We are aiming to become more Asia-centric and India remains extremely vital for the growth of our global business. As per the research of Jetro (Japan External Trade Organisation) in 2019, there were as many as 1,454 Japanese companies registered in India. That number is growing each year and clearly presents an opportunity for us,” said Toshitake Funaki, country head of India and general manager, New Delhi branch. “SMBC has a wide product suite, and we continue to build upon our capabilities to meet our clients’ requirements,” Funaki said. He said the capital base created the base for SMBC India to serve its customers’ growing requirements over the next several years. It would also allow the bank to substantially increase the group borrower and single borrower exposure limits to better serve its customers. SMBC currently has a strategic alliance with Kotak Mahindra Bank since the acquisition of a minority stake in the bank in 2010 and with Northern Arc Capital where it acquired a 5.4 per cent equity interest in December 2019. According to rating agency Crisil, SMBC Bank’s Indian operations started in December 2012 with the opening of its first branch in New Delhi. In March, 2017, the bank opened its second branch in Mumbai. The total asset size of SMBC in India was Rs 15,724 crore as on December 31, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-231
19-11-2020||Business||Lakshmi Vilas Bank shares reduced to scrap||The shareholders of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) will get nothing from the proposed merger with DBS Bank India Limited — a disagreeable prospect they woke up to a day after the details of the amalgamation scheme of the two banks were revealed, sending the LVB stock plummeting 20 per cent on the bourses on Wednesday. The stock sank to Rs 3.10 from Rs 12.40 as it hit the lower circuit filter when it emerged that the RBI in its draft scheme of amalgamation had shown the value of the shares held by the equity holders of the private sector bank to be zero. In the amalgamation scheme, the RBI said that from the “appointed date”, the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus including the balances in the share or securities premium account of the transferor bank (LVB) will be written off. Shares or debentures of LVB listed in any bourse will be delisted without any further action from the transferor bank, DBIL or order from any authority, the RBI said. Stock exchange data showed that as of September 30, public shareholders held 93.20 per cent of the Tamil Nadu-based bank. The central bank’s proposed plan will affect 96,380 retail shareholders who hold close to 23.98 per cent of LVB. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) who hold 8.65 per cent, insurance companies having 6.40 per cent and HNI investors holding 22.75 per cent will also get nothing. Apart from these, entities such as Srei Infrastructure Finance (3.34 per cent), Indiabulls Housing Finance (4.99 per cent), Prolific Finvest having 3.36 per cent will also take a knock. Analysts said LVB’s net worth had turned negative and shareholders would have to take the hit. Besides, depositors get precedence over the shareholders. On Tuesday, the government had placed LVB under moratorium. During the one-month moratorium, depositors can withdraw up to Rs 25,000. T.N. Manoharan, the RBI-appointed administrator, on Tuesday said that the bank has enough liquidity to pay back the depositors. Speaking at a virtual press conference, he said  the depositors’ money is safe and that he was confident the merger with DBS would take place before the December 16 deadline. On the reasons behind recommending the moratorium to the Centre, the RBI said the financial position of LVB has undergone a steady decline with the bank incurring continuous losses over the last three years, eroding its net-worth. The lender has not been able to raise adequate capital to address issues around its negative net-worth and continuing losses. Shareholders miffed One of the shareholders, requesting anonymity, said: “The move should not be done at the cost of domestic investors, otherwise it would set a precedent that would discourage investors from investing their hard earned money in Indian banks and financial services firms.” The shareholder said any move that hinders the principles of natural justice should be avoided.  “Hence, we would urge RBI to reconsider the proposal of writing off the paid-up share capital and reserves, which would affect both retail and institutional shareholders of the bank.” The shareholder said the regulator should opt for a solution that is fair and protects the interest of all the stakeholders of the bank and does not discriminate one from another. With inputs from the Calcutta Bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-232
