20-11-2020||Business||Sensex jumps 282 points, closes on a high||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 282 points on Friday, tracking gains in HDFC Bank, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. After a highly volatile session, the 30-share BSE index ended 282.29 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 43,882.25. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 87.35 points or 0.68 per cent to 12,859.05. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 9 per cent, followed by Titan, Bajaj Finance, Kotak Bank, Bharti Airtel, Nestle India and NTPC. On the other hand, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, Sun Pharma, Axis Bank, ONGC and HUL were among the laggards. "The BSE Sensex is closing higher by about 1 per cent in this Diwali week," said Sanjeev Zarbade, VP PCG Research, Kotak Securities. "With the end of the earnings season, the focus will shift back to economic recovery and market valuations," he said, adding that risk to the markets is from a resurgence of COVID-19 infections in India. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a positive note in early deals. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.41 per cent to USD 44.38 per barrel. Meanwhile, foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,180.61 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
20-11-2020||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 250 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid largely positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow. The 30-share BSE index was trading 282.07 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 43,882.03 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 78.45 points or 0.61 per cent to 12,850.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, ONGC, Axis Bank, SBI and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, BSE Sensex ended 580.09 points or 1.31 per cent lower at 43,599.96, while Nifty closed 166.55 points or 1.29 per cent down at 12,771.70. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,180.61 crore on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Despite a sharp correction yesterday, the market continues to look good in the backdrop of improved earnings visibility and improving key economic indicators, said Arjun Yash Mahajan, Head Institutional Business at Reliance Securities. US equities ended with modest gains as increasing optimism about fiscal stimulus overshadowed concerns of rising new COVID-19 cases and increasing restrictions, he stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.14 per cent higher at USD 44.24 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
20-11-2020||Business||YouTube updates its monetisation rules||YouTube has updated its terms of service, allowing advertisements to appear in videos from content creators that are not part of its remunerating Partner Program (YPP). Earlier, when advertisements ran on YouTube videos, creators who were part of the Partner Program, received a portion of the revenue. Under the new monetisation rules, a creator who is not a part of the plan, will also see ads on some of their videos without them earning any revenue. The move has received negative response in social media. “Ads can now appear on videos from channels not in the YouTube Partner Program (YPP), and we will begin to gradually place ads on brand safe videos. This is part of our ongoing investments in new solutions, like Home Feed ads, that help advertisers responsibly tap into the full scale of YouTube to connect with their audiences and grow their businesses,” YouTube, the online video sharing flagship of Google, said in a statement on the updated terms of service. “Because these channels are not in YPP, there is no creator revenue share, but creators can still apply to YPP once they hit the eligibility criteria, which remains the same,” the statement said. For joining YouTube’s Partner Program, one has to live in a country where it is available, the list of which includes India. Also, one has to have more than 4,000 valid public watch hours in the last 12 months and more than 1,000 subscribers, along with a linked AdSense account. Advertising is a major revenue source for Google and disclosures made by Alphabet Inc shows that $5 billion was earned from YouTube ads in the last quarter alone. Tax compliance The updated terms also said that for content creators in the US who are part of YPP, their earnings will now be treated as royalty from a US tax perspective and Google will withhold taxes from these payments if it is required by law. “For creators outside of the US, we will provide more details in 2021 as the terms become available in their countries,” YouTube said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Mastercard partners with USAID on Project Kirana to empower women||Mastercard has partnered the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to launch Project Kirana that aims to empower women through financial inclusion and digital adoption of payments at the kirana shops owned and operated by them. The two-year programme would be initially implemented across Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi covering around 3,000 women entrepreneurs and would be scaled up later. The programme will focus on building financial and digital literacy, improving basic business management skills and addressing the cultural and other barriers faced by women in becoming kirana entrepreneurs. Alison Eskesen, vice-president of Mastercard Center for Inclusive Growth, said the three cities where it will start the programme will be a testing ground and prepare a roadmap for expansion to more states. Mastercard has announced a commitment of Rs 250 crore to help reboot Indian SMEs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||India’s tech solutions have potential to go global: Modi||India’s technology solutions have the potential to go global, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Addressing the Bangalore Tech Summit 2020 (BTS2020) virtually, he said: “India as a country is uniquely positioned to leap ahead in the information era. We have the best minds as well as the biggest market. Our local tech solutions have the potential to go global.” Modi said his government has eased the compliance burden on the IT industry in various ways and has engaged with stakeholders in the tech industry to chart out the future policy framework. “Thanks to Digital India our nation has witnessed a more human-centric approach to development. Using technology had brought about several life changes for our citizens,” he said. RCEP stand India will explore suitable trade agreements with other countries even as it has walked away from the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership free trade agreement. “When we decided non to participate in RCEP, that was because we felt it was not going to serve the national purpose. This is not the case that we are moving into some sort of protectionism. If there are trade deals that serve our purpose, we will do them," said Sanjeev Sanyal, principal economic adviser in the Union finance ministry. He was speaking at the annual general meeting of Merchants Chamber of Commerce and Industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Centre to consider iron ore and pellet export ban||The Centre is looking into a proposal by the steel industry, especially from Bengal, to ban the export of iron ore and pellets from India to improve the availability of these key raw materials in the domestic market. Participating at the annual general meeting of the Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce, Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the representation by the Bengal industry was a “good suggestion” and he would look into the matter. Admitting that there is a shortage of iron ore, Pradhan said: “We are talking to the stakeholders concerned, that can be an option.” Lalit Beriwala, director of Shyam Steel, informed the minister that there was a crisis of iron ore because of the closure of mines in Odisha. Prices of iron ore and pellets have shot up. Moreover, the supply has dried up, threatening the closure of the mills in Bengal. Pradhan suggested that central PSU OMDC should be allowed to use closed mines till the situation normalises. The minister said he had spoken to OMDC about it but the state government has to take the initiatives. The minister, however, refused to intervene in increasing steel prices, saying it is a demand-supply issue. In 2019-20, the total production of iron ore was 250 million tonnes in the country, while domestic demand was 180 million tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||DGCA assessing rerunning of Boeing 737 MAX planes||India’s aviation regulator has said it is assessing the decision of its US counterpart  to let the Boeing 737 MAX planes fly again and it would take “some time ” before it gives its assent to the planes that have been grounded for more than a year following two fatal crashes. The stock markets, however, have factored in the US Federal Aviation Administration’s decision as investors hoisted the SpiceJet share up by 12 per cent on Thursday. On the BSE, the shares closed at Rs 74.35, rising 12.06 per cent over the previous close. The FAA paved the way for the MAX aircraft to return to commercial service after a comprehensive and methodical safety review process that stretched for 20 months. In the wake of the accidents  involving MAX planes, these aircraft were grounded worldwide in 2019. Joining many other regulators, India’s directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) has grounded MAX aircraft in March last year. On the next step after the FAA cleared the path for the resumption of Boeing 737 MAX flights, a senior DGCA official said the regulator would “study and react. It will take some time”. Sources said generally FAA decisions are globally followed by other aviation regulators, though they take their own time to implement it. Only two Indian carriers — SpiceJet and now-shuttered Jet Airways — were operating MAX aircraft before they were grounded on safety concerns. SpiceJet has a fleet of 13 such planes that were grounded in March 2019. In 2016-17, the carrier had placed an order for up to 205 MAX aircraft. The FAA has also published an airworthiness directive, specifying the design changes that must be made before the aircraft returns to service, issued a continued airworthiness notification to the international community, and published the MAX training requirements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Amazon move questioned in court by Future Retail||Senior advocate Harish Salve, counsel for Future Retail, on Thursday said that Amazon cannot object to the deal between Future Retail (FRL) and Reliance Retail as it does not have its “skin in the game” and holds less than 10 per cent in FRL. Salve made this submission in the Delhi high court, which is hearing a petition by FRL that says Amazon is interfering in its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail on the basis of an interim order by Singapore arbitrator SIAC. Amazon had earlier picked up 49 per cent in Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCL). FCL, which is classified as a promoter in FRL, owns 9.82 per cent of the latter. By the virtue of its investment in FCL, Amazon has a 4.81 per cent stake in FRL. At the hearing on Thursday, Salve quoted the Companies Act, 2013 to say that entities holding less than 10 per cent cannot object to a scheme of arrangement between Future Retail and Reliance. “Reliance is a muscular company in India. What stops it from launching its own marketplace. It will then be Amazon versus Reliance,’’ he observed while indicating that Amazon is looking to deter RIL. Amazon had earlier taken FRL into an emergency arbitration over alleged breach of contract after the Future group entered into a deal to sell its retail assets to Reliance. On October 25, the SIAC had passed an interim order in favour of the e-commerce major barring FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Moody’s: Economy contract 10.6 per cent this fiscal||Moody’s Investors Service on Thursday said the economy would contract 10.6 per cent this fiscal against its earlier forecast of 11.5 per cent contraction as the Centre’s stimulus measures announced last week would positively impact the economy. The third stimulus package amounting to Rs 2.7 lakh crore prioritises manufacturing and job creation and focuses on longer-term growth, Moody’s said. The measures aim to increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector, while supporting infrastructure investment, credit availability and the stressed sectors. They present potential upside to the current growth forecasts and a credit positive, Moody’s added. “As countries have increasingly looked to greater diversification in their supply chains since the coronavirus pandemic, the timely introduction of these measures could boost India’s manufacturing industry, which contributed around 15 per cent of GDP in 2019,” Moody’s said, adding that widening of the scope of the credit guarantee scheme will boost credit flow and aid recovery. “We have revised our real, inflation-adjusted GDP forecast for fiscal 2020 (April 2020-March 2021) to a 10.6 per cent contraction, from a 11.5 per cent drop previously,” Moody’s said. For the next fiscal 2021-22, Moody’s projected India to grow at 10.8 per cent against the previous estimate of 10.6 per cent. Q2 better: Icra The contraction in the country’s gross domestic product (GDP) may have narrowed to 9.5 per cent in the second quarter of the current fiscal from 23.9 per cent in the April-June quarter, says a report by Icra. The Central Statistics Office (CSO) will release the GDP data for the second quarter of 2020-21 on November 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Vodafone Idea shares rise over 4 per cent||Shares of Vodafone Idea on Thursday rose over 4 per cent during intra-day trade on reports that it could see a fund infusion of up to $2 billion from Oaktree and Varde. The telco, however, gave up most of its gains to close at Rs 9.27, marking a rise of 0.76 per cent over the previous close. During intra-day trade, it hit a high of Rs 9.59. In September, Vodafone Idea had announced it would raise up to Rs 25,000 crore in fresh capital. The company has to pay Rs 58,000 crore in dues to the government over a 10-year period and it has so far paid Rs 7,900 crore. On Thursday, Bloomberg reported that a consortium backed by Oaktree Capital could provide upto $2 billion (around Rs 15,000 crore) to Vodafone Idea. The report added that Oaktree has joined hands with other firms, including Varde Partners, for the deal and the total infusion could be around $2.5 billion. The company had seen consolidated loss narrowing to Rs 7,218.2 crore in the  September quarter of 2020. It had suffered a loss of Rs 50,897.9 crore a year ago. Total income declined by about 3 per cent to Rs 10,830.5 crore from Rs 11,146.4 crore a year ago. In August, Trai data showed Vodafone Idea lost 12.28 lakh users to take its subscriber base to 30.01 crore. “Vodafone Idea’s poor balance sheet may hurt its capex and add to its loss of market share to Airtel and Jio. Any progress on floor pricing or relief measures from the Centre will be positive for the sector,’’ analysts at Axis Capital said. Tower merger The merger of Bharti Infratel and Indus Towers to create a mega tower company has been completed. Vodafone Idea has received Rs 3,760.1 crore cash for its 11.15 per cent holding in Indus, a regulatory filing said on Thursday. Vodafone Group will hold a 28.12 per cent stake in the merged entity, while the holding of Airtel Group will be about 36.7 per cent. “The board has allotted 757,821,804 shares of Rs 10 each to the Vodafone group and 87,506,900 shares of Rs 10 each to PS Asia Holding Investments (Mauritius) Limited (Providence) aggregating to 28.12 per cent and 3.25 per cent, respectively, in the post-issue share capital of the company,” Bharti Infratel said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||SC asks Centre and RBI to respond to power producers loan restructuring plea||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the finance ministry and the RBI to respond to the plea of the power producers to restructure Rs 1.2 lakh crore of their loans in the wake of the pandemic even as the Centre said the issue of loan moratorium is a fiscal policy matter and the government has taken various proactive steps keeping in mind different sectors. The Centre also assured the top court that it would be the responsibility of banks to credit compound interest waiver for loans up to Rs 2 crore. A three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah posted the matter for further hearing to enable the power producers  place their suggestions and representations within three days to the RBI and finance ministry on the restructuring of loans for the authorities concerned to respond accordingly. The bench passed the directions after senior advocate Abhishekh Manu Singhvi appearing for the power producers association complained that no relief had been extended to the sector which was one of the worst affected during the Covid-19 crisis. The court was dealing with a batch of petitions seeking moratorium on loans till 2021 in view of the pandemic. The RBI on March 27 allowed lending institutions to grant a moratorium on payment of instalments of term loans falling between March 1, 2020, and May 31, 2020, which was extended till August 31. While apprising the apex court about the steps and measures taken so far by the finance ministry and the RBI, solicitor-general Tushar Mehta told the  bench that it is not a case of “no action” and no further indulgence may be given even if the petitioners say that there could be a better option on this issue. The solicitor-general also said that to ask for sector specific reliefs from the top court now is perhaps not a remedy available under Article 32 of the Constitution. Creditors empowered In a separate case, the Supreme Court on Thursday held that “any creditor of a company in liquidation” can become a party to the winding up petition against the defaulting firm and seek transfer of the plea from a high court to a National Company Law Tribunal set up under the new law on insolvency and bankruptcy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
20-11-2020||Business||Harsh Vardhan Lodha removed from five MP Birla firms||Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been removed from the boards of the five toprung investment companies of the MP Birla Group, escalating the battle over the control of the business empire spread across cement, cable and jute sectors. These companies, chaired by Justice Mohit S Shah (retired), took the step in their respective board meetings in October and subsequently informed the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) of the cessation. The website of the MCA now shows that Lodha has ceased to be the director of these firms. The Lodha camp termed Harsh’s removal as ‘illegal actions’ and filed applications, which may come up for hearing on Friday before the Calcutta High Court. Lodha has been director on the board of these companies since 2004. Justice Shah (retired) is a member of the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL Committee), appointed by the court to look after the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, till the pendency of her contested will, which had bequeathed the estate to late Rajendra Lodha, father of Harsh. The threemember APL committee had been seeking to oust Lodha from the boards of all the four listed companies of MP Birla Group, alleging that he was acting against the interests of the estate. The investment firms took note of the judgment passed on September 18 by a single bench of the high court, which restrained Lodha from holding any office of the MP Birla Group till the pendency of the probate suit of Priyamvada’s contested will. On October 1, a division bench of the HC declined ad interim stay on the single bench order but clarified that Lodha would be restrained from holding office ‘on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of Priyamvada Birla’. The Birla and Lodha camps took divergent views of the order. While the Birla side claimed that the single bench order had been upheld, the Lodha camp argued the order paved the way for his continuation on the boards, trusts and societies of MP Birla Group. Since then, Birla Corp and all three listed firms held board meetings under the chairmanship of Harsh Lodha. However, Justice Shah (retired) did not allow Lodha to join the board meets of the investment firms citing the HC order and removed him from the boards. The Birla camp on Thursday said it was in the process of filing a contempt of court order case against the listed companies and their directors for flouting the order. The Lodhas pointed out that the APL committee formed an opinion that Lodha has ceased to be a director automatically despite the division bench modification. They alleged the board meetings of the companies were conducted improperly and flouting the law and the companies were coerced to make filings to the MCA. The investment companies — East India Investment, Gwalior Webbing, The Punjab Produce & Trading Co, Baroda Agent & Trading Co and Punjab Produce Holdings — together hold around 14.23 per cent directly in Birla Corporation, the flagship of the group, having a market capitalisation of Rs 5,701 crore. They are a part of the promoter group of Birla Corp, which has 62.9 per cent in the company. They also hold significant shares in three other listed cable companies of the group, which have a combined market cap of around Rs 1,500 crore as on November 19. While late Priyamvada, and now the estate, held majority stakes in two of the investment companies — East India and Gwalior Webbing — she directly held minority stake in the rest. For instance, in The Punjab Produce Trading and Punjab Produce Holdings, the estate holds 0 per cent and 0.08 per cent directly. However, they together hold 10.63 per cent in BCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-230
