21-11-2020||Business||Strong start by Gland  Pharma||Shares of Gland Pharma on Friday made a sizzling debut on the bourses, rising 23 per cent over its issue price during intra-day trade. Though the counter gave up some of its gains, it still ended strong with an over 7 per cent rise. On the BSE, the shares opened at Rs 1,701 apiece, a gain of over 13 per cent compared with the issue price of Rs 1,500. The stock touched an intra-day high of Rs 1,850 and ended the day at Rs 1,820.45 — a rise of 7.02 per cent over the opening price. Similar trends were witnessed on the NSE where the scrip listed at Rs 1,710 and touched an intra-day high of Rs 1,850. The opening price was 14 per cent higher than the issue price. It closed at Rs 1,828. Compared to the issue price, the scrip ended the day with a gain of more than 21 per cent on both the bourses. The price band for the initial public offer (IPO), which closed earlier this month, was fixed at Rs 1,490-1,500 per share. The company’s promoters are Fosun Singapore and Shanghai Fosun Pharma. Gland Pharma now has a market cap of Rs 29,724.82 crore, which places it among the top ten pharma stocks. The offer comprised issuance of fresh shares worth up to Rs 1,250 crore and an offer for sale (OFS) of up to 3,48,63,635 shares. OFS consisted of sale of up to 1,93,68,686 shares by Fosun Pharma Industrial Pte Ltd, 1,00,47,435 shares by Gland Celsus Bio Chemicals, 35,73,014 shares by Empower Discretionary Trust and 18,74,500 shares by Nilay Discretionary Trust. Ahead of the IPO, various brokerages had recommended investors to subscribe to the offering given its strong pipeline in the injectables segment. Gland Pharma had raised Rs 1,944 crore from anchor investors by selling shares at Rs 1,500 apiece. The government of Singapore, Nomura, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, SBI Mutual Fund, Axis Mutual Fund, SBI Life Insurance Company and Fidelity were among the anchor investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
21-11-2020||Business|| Delhi high court order reserved in Future retail deal||The Delhi high court on Friday reserved an order on an application by Future Retail seeking to prevent Amazon from interfering in the deal with Reliance following an interim order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC). Justice Mukta Gupta asked the parties to give written submissions, if any, by November 23. During the hearing, senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, representing Amazon, said under the SIAC rules, an emergency award is binding on the parties subject to a challenge. He argued that until the parties get it set aside, it is like an order of the court. Subramanium said all the defendants except Reliance were party to the arbitration. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for FRL, said an arbitrator is one who is entitled to decide the dispute and an emergency arbitrator cannot act as an arbitrator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
21-11-2020||Business||CCI clears Future Retail deal||The Competition Commission of India has approved Reliance’s Rs 24,713-crore offer to acquire Future Group’s retail assets. In a tweet on Friday, the regulator said it has approved the “acquisition of retail, wholesale, logistics & warehousing businesses of Future Group by Reliance Retail Ventures and Reliance Retail and Fashion Lifestyle Limited”. Deals beyond a certain threshold require the approval of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), which keeps a tab on unfair business practices . In August, Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries had announced the acquisition to add to its fast-expanding retail business. The clearance of the deal by the CCI is a setback to US giant Amazon, which had argued that a 2019 agreement it inked with Future prevented the Indian group from selling its retail assets to certain parties, including Reliance. Recently, Amazon secured an injunction from an Emergency Arbitrator of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) against the enforcement of Reliance-Future group deal. Amazon had requested the CCI and Sebi to consider the SIAC order and block the deal. The Singapore arbitrator had passed an interim award in favour of Amazon barring Future Retail and Future Coupons from taking any further steps on a board resolution of August 29, 2020 with respect to the transaction with Reliance Industries or its group entities. The Future Group entities have also been barred from filing or pursuing any application before any agency in India with respect to the said board resolution. However, Future Retail challenged the injunction of the arbitrator in the Delhi high court. According to the notice submitted to the CCI, there are at least seven target entities. They are Future Enterprises, Future Consumer, Future Lifestyle Fashions, Future Retail, Future Market Networks, Future Supply Chain Solutions and Future Bazaar India and its subsidiaries. “The transferor companies consist of several listed and unlisted companies, primarily engaged in retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing businesses. These businesses operate on a pan-India basis, and include retail operations across segments such as food and grocery, apparel, footwear and accessories,” the notice said. Last year, Amazon bought a 49 per cent stake in one of Future Group’s unlisted firms, with the right to buy into the listed Future Retail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
21-11-2020||Business||KTM 250cc bike for Rs 2.5 lakh||KTM, a premium motorcycle brand, on Friday launched the KTM 250 Adventure — a 250-cc adventure motorcycle that follows its elder sibling the KTM 390 Adventure, which was launched a few months back. The KTM 250 will retail at Rs 2,48,256 (ex-showroom Delhi). The bike is powered by a 248cc four-valve single cylinder liquid cooled engine. It sports a six-speed gearbox. Since its entry into India in 2012, KTM has expanded its network to over 365 cities with 460 stores. KTM has a customer base of over 2.7 lakh bikers, making India the largest global market for KTM. Bajaj Auto owns 48 per cent of KTM AG, the division that deals with the manufacture and sale of KTM Motorcycles, with some motorcycles being produced in India through their association with Bajaj. Sumeet Narang, president (probiking) at Bajaj Auto, said: “The recent years have witnessed an increasing trend in adventure touring. Our Adventure range was conceptualised to address this trend.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Toyota dealers cross 400 with the latest inauguration in Karnataka||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) has inaugurated its 401st dealership in Bellary, Karnataka, thus taking its footprint to new markets in the country. The new dealership in Karnataka will provide sales, service and spare parts. In order to make the brand more accessible to consumers, the company has also launched its first regional stock yard in northeastern India. Besides, TKM has added more than 100 sales and service touch points over the last two years across all four zones. TKM recently expanded its service network with the launch of multiple PRO Service centres. These centres are dedicated service facilities that are equipped to service any Toyota car for all kinds of service. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, TKM sales and service, said, “It gives us immense pleasure on surpassing the milestone of 400 outlets in the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Chanda Kochhar gets arrest shield||The Supreme Court on Friday recorded an undertaking from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) that no coercive action would be taken without the prior consent of the court against former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case probe. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy recorded an undertaking to this effect from solicitor-general Tushar Mehta who appeared for the ED and assured the court that “…no coercive step would be taken against the petitioner”. The ED, therefore, is not going to effect Chanda Kochhar’s arrest at least without the top court’s prior permission. The bench after recording an undertaking posted the matter for further hearing to November 27. Chanda Kochhar has filed three separate petitions in the Supreme Court. The first petition relates to preventing any coercive action against her by ED. The second petition is an interim bail for her husband Deepak Kochhar and the third, her own termination from the post of ICICI chief executive officer. All these matters are expected to come up for hearing next week. The Supreme Court bench also recorded in its order  that the trial court in Mumbai would be uninfluenced by the proceedings with regard to the interim bail proceedings in the Supreme Court relating to Deepak Kochhar. The trial court will be taking up on Monday the bail proceedings of Deepak Kochhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||SBI revises forecast for the second quarter||The research wing of State Bank of India on Friday said the economy was expected to contract 10.7 per cent in the second quarter of the fiscal against its earlier estimate of 12.5 per cent contraction. The revision comes at a time there are conflicting projections about the growth rate  from various institutions. While Moody’s Investor Service has projected a contraction of 10.6 per cent in FY21 GDP growth rate against its earlier estimate of a decline of 11.5 per cent, Barclays has projected the contraction at 6.4 per cent against its earlier estimate of 6 per cent. The GDP contraction estimates for the second quarter by various economists are in the range of 8-16 per cent, an overall improvement compared with a decline of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter. “The SBI business activity index shows continuous improvement and Q3 numbers could be even better. However, the extent of recovery can only be gauged after the actual Q2 numbers are published,” SBI said in its report Ecowrap. Sectors such as electricity, gas, water supply; financial, real estate and professional services; and public administration, defence and other services will reverse their negative growth of the first quarter  to positive growth in the second quarter. Agriculture will maintain a positive growth rate in the second quarter. The report also said corporate results have remained good and growth in corporate GVA of 3,640 listed entities is at 22.06 per cent year-on-year for the second quarter of FY21 Reform measures announced by the Narendra Modi government to deal with Cthe ovid-19 pandemic has the potential to push economic growth in the medium term, rating agency Fitch said. However, there are also downside pressures to growth and it will take time to assess whether the reforms are implemented effectively The rating agency said the pandemic will slow medium-term growth as damaged corporate balance sheets are expected to dampen investment for years. “Renewed asset-quality challenges in banks and fragile liquidity for non-bank financial companies could also constrain growth prospects,” it said in a release. For the current fiscal, Fitch Ratings has projected a 10.5 per cent contraction in the Indian economy. Raising medium-term growth rates under these circumstances will require reforms to support investment and boost productivity, Fitch said, adding it expects the government to remain generally reform-minded over the next few years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||L&T Finance invokes Essel shares||L&T Finance has invoked shares of three Essel Group companies — Zee Media Corporation, Zee Learn and Siti Network — and appropriated them against outstanding loans. L&T Finance invoked and appropriated 1.24 crore shares constituting 2.65 per cent stake of Zee Media Corporation on November 18. Around 96.02 lakh shares, constituting 2.94 per cent stake, of Zee Learn was also appropriated on the same day in November. Siti Networks’ 5.73 crore shares, constituting 6.58 per cent stake, were also taken over. Another L&T group company L&T Infrastructures Finance Company said it has acquired from the security trustee and had appropriated against loan outstandings 1.29 crore shares constituting 2.74 per cent stake of Zee Media Corporation on November 18. This was done through off market transfers. Zee Media Corporation (formerly Zee News) is a network with 10 news channels in six different languages. According to Bombay Stock Exchange data, in the quarter ended September 30, 2020, shareholding of promoter and promoter group firm in Zee Media Corporation stood at 25.85 per cent, of which a 99.65 per cent stake is pledged or encumbered. Meanwhile, Essel Group has sold its fledgeling cruise line brand Jalesh Cruises to Waterways Leisure for an undisclosed sum. Essel Group was running the business under Zen Cruises.                        .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Corporate finance heads to re-imagine debt solution in realty ||Corporate India can shed long -term debt of $341 billion by monetising real estate, according to JLL, a real estate and investment management firm. An uncertain economic scenario has forced corporate finance heads to re-imagine real estate assets as sources of funds to reduce debt. The aggregate financials of approximately 2.45 lakh non-government, non-financial companies indicate that debt accounts for less than 50 per cent of their net worth. RBI data on economic financial position in 2018-19 reveals that the value of land stood at $52 billion and that of buildings at $89 billion. This total of $141 billion is 41 per cent of the outstanding long-term debt of $341 billion. One of the probable reasons for this situation is lower profits generated from the assets they had invested in. Samantak Das, chief economist and head of research & REIS India, JLL, said: “With the fall in economic activity, Covid-19 has impacted asset utilisation and profitability tremendously. “In the current circumstances, sale and lease-back of assets is likely to provide long term steady rental yield... monetisation of these assets could reduce substantial debt. Funds generated from the sale of these assets could be high enough to cover the entire debt.” However, one of the biggest challenges is the mindset of corporate houses, who feel that owning real estate is of utmost importance. In many cases, since land is allocated under various state industrial policies, the option of sale and leaseback is not even considered. However, in today’s uncertain economic environment, corporate finance heads are likely to look at options of using real estate as a source of liquidity. Investors may face challenges on account of ownership titles and valuation. Such deals could take longer to close because of documentation and taxation issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||Fuel prices jacked up after nearly  60 days||The prices of petrol and diesel were raised in Calcutta by 20 and 25 paise, respectively, as firming international oil prices broke a nearly two-month-long hiatus in price revision. In Calcutta, the price of petrol rose to Rs 82.79 a litre from Rs 82.59 per litre, while diesel rates stood at Rs 74.24 per litre against Rs 73.99 earlier. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 81.23 per litre from Rs 81.06, according to a price notification from oil marketing companies. Diesel rates went up from Rs 70.46 to Rs 70.68 per litre. This is the first revision in petrol prices since September 22. Diesel rates hadn’t changed since October 2. Public sector oil marketing companies — Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd — revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the benchmark international oil price and foreign exchange rate. They have, however, restored to calibrating the rates since the pandemic broke out with a view to avoiding volatility in retail prices. The 58-day hiatus in petrol price revision and 48-day status quo on diesel rates was preceded by no change in rates between June 30 and August 15 and a 52-day status quo between March 17 and June 6. In Mumbai, the petrol price on Friday was raised to Rs 87.92 per litre from Rs 87.74, while diesel rates went up from Rs 76.86 to Rs 77.11. In Chennai, petrol now costs Rs 84.31 and diesel Rs 76.17 per litre. Fuel demand posted its first annual increase in October  since February as a spurt in diesel demand ahead of the festival season pushed consumption to pre-Covid-19 levels. Demand for petroleum products rose 2.5 per cent in October to reach 17.77 million tonnes compared with 17.34 million tonnes a year back. While petrol had reached pre-Covid levels in September itself, diesel consumption returned to normal in October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
21-11-2020||Business||RBI panel makes proposal: business barons may run banks||An internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has proposed the entry of corporate houses into banking and higher promoter stakes in the long run. It has also recommended that large non-banks with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house, be allowed to convert to banks. Some of its other recommendations include doubling the minimum initial capital requirement for new universal banks to Rs 1,000 crore  and small finance banks to Rs 300 crore from Rs 200 crore. The panel has also said the voting rights of any single non-promoter be limited to 15 per cent of the voting equity capital. The central bank should also continue with the present structure of a non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) for all new licences issued to universal banks. The RBI had constituted the internal working group (IWG) in June, chaired by its central board director P. K. Mohanty. The panel in its report submitted on Friday made more than a dozen recommendations, but three are significant. The first one related to the entry of corporate houses into banking. The central bank had toyed with the idea in the past but stayed away from allowing any large industrial house to enter banking because of governance concerns and the risk of conflict of interest with the fear being that group firms or associate companies could stand to gain if an entity in the same group sets up a bank. The panel said large corporate or industrial houses be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to deal with connected lending and exposures between the banks and other financial and non-financial group entities . It also called for strengthening of the supervisory mechanism for large conglomerates, including “consolidated supervision” which means that the RBI could supervise other entities in a group as well to ensure that banking norms are not violated. “Notwithstanding the merits of permitting large corporate/industrial houses to own banks, certain pre-requisites may be necessary before considering the same in view of valid concerns,” the panel said. According to the current rules for universal banks, minimum 40 per cent of the promoters holding is locked in for five years. Thereafter it has to be brought down to 30 per cent within 10 years and 15 per cent within 15 years. In 2016, the voting rights cap was raised by the RBI to 26 per cent. The panel said there is a need to harmonise the rules. It recommended that while the current rules relating to promoters’ shareholding in the bank being at least 40 per cent in the initial five years of operations of a new bank should stay, the cap on promoters’ stake in the long run (15 years) be raised from the current 15 per cent to 26 per cent of the paid-up voting equity share capital of the bank. The committee recommended that well-run large NBFCs with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore and above, including those which are owned by a corporate house, may be permitted to convert to banks provided they have completed 10 years and meet due diligence criteria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-229
