22-11-2020||Business||Harley Davidson dealers miffed with compensation package||Dealers of Harley Davidson, the American motorcycle company that has pulled out of the Indian market, are cut up about the compensation package being offered to them. Harley Davidson had entered the Indian market in 2009 and had established a dealer network of 33 before pulling out of the market in October 2020 as part of its global restructuring programme. The company has entered into a distribution and licence agreement with Hero MotoCorp, the largest two-wheeler manufacturer in India. Of the 33 dealers, about 10 to 15 might continue with Hero. Most of them are unhappy with the compensation package offered by the company and might take the legal route. Adarsh Tulsyan, who runs the sole Harley dealership in Calcutta and another one in Ranchi, said: “I have to close the Ranchi dealership for which I invested Rs 2 crore. Harley is offering Rs 1,500 per square feet with a 10 per cent depreciation year-on-year and six months sales support. My dealership is nine years old. That means they will deduct 90 per cent as depreciation.” As Tulsyan will be continuing his Calcutta dealership with Hero, he may lose this compensation package as the company has said it will not pay dealers who are going to continue with Hero. “We are still negotiating but time is running out,” said Tulsyan. Harley-Davidson on Saturday issued an official statement. Sajeev Rajasekharan, managing director — Asia emerging markets & India, said: “Harley-Davidson motorcycles, parts and accessories and general merchandise sales, as well as after-sale services and warranty will continue from January 2021 onwards.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||RBI initiates special audit of Srei firms||The Reserve Bank of India has initiated a special audit of Srei Infrastructure Finance and its subsidiary Srei Equipment Finance. Srei Infrastructure Finance in a statement to bourses on Friday said the RBI in exercise of its powers under section 45 MA(3) of RBI Act, 1934 has initiated a special audit being undertaken by an auditor appointed by the regulator. A special audit is typically undertaken if there is a deterioration in the quality of the lender’s book and the regulator is of the opinion that it is necessary to do so in public interest or in the interest of depositors. Last week, Srei Infrastructure Finance had reported a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 4.72 crore in the September quarter of 2020 against Rs 23.01 crore in the June quarter of 2020.  The assets under management also shrank to Rs 43,339 crore from Rs 44,213 crore as on June 30, 2020. In the first six months of the ongoing fiscal, the consolidated net non performing assets also increased to 6.6 per cent compared with 6.2 per cent a year ago. The consolidated net worth as of September end was Rs 4,064 crore with borrowings of Rs 31,435 crore. Industry observers pointed out that the move comes at a time the NBFC sector has been facing a double whammy of Covid-19 related business disruption and market access constraints in the aftermath of the IL&FS crisis. Both Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance are classified as Systemically Important NBFCs. Fitch group firm India Ratings & Research has estimated the growth in assets under management for NBFCs to remain flat in 2020-21. “Although the liquidity and funding environment has improved for better rated entities post July, there would be asset quality issues impacting overall profitability in FY21 and beyond. Thus, NBFCs have increased their focus on collections and have tightened underwriting standards; portfolio growth would take a back seat,” the ratings firm said. Last year, Srei had decided to consolidate the lending business with a focus on equipment finance and prepare the grounds for an eventual foray into banking.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||Former Bank of India boss joins Indiabulls||The board of mortgage lender Indiabulls Housing Finance on Saturday approved the appointment of Dinabandhu Mohapatra as an independent director of the company with effect from November 23. Mohapatra was the former managing director and CEO of Bank of India (BoI). The latest appointment could reflect its banking ambitions and it comes just a day after an RBI panel chaired by its central board director P.K. Mohanty recommended that large non-banks with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore, including those which are owned by a corporate house, be allowed to convert to banks. Last October, the RBI had rejected a proposal to merge Indiabulls Housing Finance with Lakshmi Vilas Bank, following allegations that money worth thousands of crores were siphoned off by its founder and the directors. Subsequently, the petitioner who had approached the Supreme Court alleging the misappropriation of funds withdrew the plea made against the founder. In August this year, Indiabulls Housing Finance had announced the appointment of former RBI deputy governor Subhash Sheoratan Mundra as its non-executive chairman. Dinabandhu Mohapatra is a seasoned banker with a career spanning over three decades, during which he held various high level positions, including executive director of Canara Bank and CEO of the Hong Kong and Singapore centres of BoI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||Mukesh Ambani pitches for reforms in renewable energy||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) chairman Mukesh Ambani on Saturday said India needs disruptive solutions in renewable, low carbon and carbon recycle technologies as well as breakthroughs in renewable energy and innovations in storage and utilisation to achieve  the twin goals of becoming an economic and a clean-and-green energy superpower. “By the middle of the century, the world will use twice as much energy as we use today. In the next two decades, India’s own per capita energy needs will be more than twice as much as today,” Ambani said. Speaking at the 8th convocation of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay University (PDPU), the RIL chief forecast an “explosive and exponential growth” in the Indian economy in the post-Covid era. Ambani, who is also the president of the board of governors of PDPU, said India had entered a crucial phase in its fight against coronavirus and cannot afford to let the guard down at this juncture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
22-11-2020||Business||Big goals for oil refining, gas use||The country plans to nearly double its oil refining capacity in the next five years and reduce carbon footprint by 30-35 per cent by increasing the use of natural gas by four times this decade, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday. Setting an aggressive timeline for the energy sector despite the Covid-19 pandemic, Modi, who was speaking at the convocation ceremony of Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU), said, “In the oil and gas sector alone, crores of rupees are going to be invested during this decade, so you (students) have a lot of opportunities in this field.” Modi’s comment on doubling the refining capacity seems to suggest that the government hasn’t quite dropped its plans for a massive 60-million-tonne per annum refinery in the west coast in which Aramco of Saudi Arabia and Adnoc of Abu Dhabi had agreed to partner public sector giants such as IOC. The project had appeared to run aground after facing land acquisition problems in Maharashtra’s Ratnagiri district a couple of years ago and some talk of disagreements between the partners. Further, given the government’s natural gas ambition, India may conclude lucrative long-term LNG contracts now at a time the world is facing an LNG glut. Petronet LNG had struck LNG supply contracts with RasGas of Qatar and Exxon for gas from Australia’s Gorgon project that have proved to be exorbitant. New LNG deals at substantially reduced prices might enable Petronet LNG to renegotiate the Qatar and Australian deals after overcoming strong resistance from those countries. Modi also expressed confidence that the country will achieve its renewable energy generation target “before time”. “Today, the per unit cost (of solar power) has come down to less than Rs 2 from Rs 12-13 earlier. Today, solar power has become the country’s priority. We have made a commitment to generate 175 gigawatt renewable energy and I am confident that we will achieve this before 2022,” he said. “Also, our renewable energy target of 450 gigawatt by 2030, a big aim, will be achieved before time...I am confident of that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
