23-11-2020||Business||Sensex ends 195 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 195 points on Monday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid largely positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflows. After touching a record intra-day high of 44,271.15, the 30-share BSE index ended 194.90 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 44,077.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 67.40 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 12,926.45. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 7 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and TCS. On the other hand, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and M&M were among the laggards. Indian markets traded on a positive note following positive global cues amid COVID-19 vaccine hopes as more pharma companies announced successful initial trials for their vaccine candidates, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session the markets pared initial gains and traded marginally positive briefly and scaled back strongly led by buying in IT, pharma and auto shares while banks and financial stocks pared losses for the day," he added. Earlier in the day, the COVID-19 vaccine candidate being developed by Oxford University showed crucial Phase 3 interim results. The ChAdOx1 nCoV-2019, being produced in collaboration with AstraZeneca, was found to be 70.4 per cent effective when combining data from two dosing regimens. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 1.64 per cent to USD 45.81 per barrel. According to traders, persistent foreign fund inflows too buoyed domestic investor sentiment. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,860.78 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
23-11-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Infosys amid largely positive cues from global markets and sustained foreign fund inflow. After touching a lifetime intra-day high of 44,271.15, the 30-share BSE index was trading 309.36 points or 0.70 per cent higher at 44,191.61 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 83.85 points or 0.65 per cent to 12,942.90. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, Reliance Industries, ONGC, NTPC and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HDFC, Asian Paints, ITC and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 282.29 points or 0.65 per cent higher at 43,882.25, while the Nifty rose 87.35 points or 0.68 per cent to close at 12,859.05. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 3,860.78 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities are looking good at the moment supported by favourable global cues, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Heavy-weight financials are expected to do well in the backdrop of the report of Internal Working Group of RBI suggesting various changes including higher promoters' ownership and issuing universal banking license to large conglomerates and NBFCs. However, the recent spike in COVID-19 cases in several states and night curfews imposed in select cities might be limiting any sharp move, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading in with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.40 per cent higher at USD 45.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Keep it flexible: flexi-cap funds||Earlier this month, Sebi announced the introduction of a new category of equity mutual funds. This new category, called “flexi-cap fund”, aims to create funds that allocate in large, mid, and small-cap securities flexibly, without the restrictions present in the existing categories such as multi-cap funds. But how is this new category different from the multi-cap category which had pretty much the same objective — to allow investors access quality stock picks without being bound to market capitalisation? Let’s look at the key takeaways from this notification for investors. Market cap classification Let’s first understand the matter of market capitalisation — the value of a company being traded on the stock market. For example, a company with one lakh shares worth Rs 100 each would have a market capitalisation of Rs 1 crore. Sebi classifies the Top 100 companies by market capitalisation as large-cap firms. Companies ranked 101 to 250 are classified as mid-caps, and those ranked 251 onwards are classified as small-caps. Large companies are seen to be safe, stable and capable of providing steady returns whereas smaller companies are considered riskier, volatile  but capable of providing explosive returns. Equity mutual funds are created keeping in mind the underlying stock’s market cap. For example, a large-cap fund must invest at least 80 per cent of its portfolio in the securities of large-cap companies. There now exist several equity fund categories tailoring to all sorts of risk appetites — large-cap funds, mid-cap funds, small-cap funds-and categories such as flexi-caps that straddle these divides. Nuts & bolts of flexi-cap Sebi announced that the new category will require its funds to invest a minimum of 65 per cent of the portfolio in equity securities. Additionally, the diversification across large, mid and small-cap stocks will be open-ended. It means that the manager of such a fund is free to invest in a stock regardless of its market capitalisation and in the ratio he considers appropriate for his scheme. In September, Sebi had made alterations to the multi-cap fund category rules, asking fund houses to invest a minimum of 75 per cent in equity, with a minimum of 25 per cent each in large, mid and small-cap stocks. Before September, multi-cap funds had to invest only a minimum of 65 per cent in equity without the restrictions on diversification by market capitalisation. In essence, the flexi-cap category is a return to the earlier iteration of the multi-cap category. Why was this necessary? In September, Sebi pointed out that multi-cap funds were operating as large-cap funds with limited exposure to small companies. They lacked the necessary diversification to be called multi-cap — or in Sebi’s words, they were not “true to label” as the scheme’s portfolio didn’t reflect in the scheme’s name. Several of these funds had 70-90 per cent exposure to large-cap companies. The new rules would have forced much greater diversification in these funds, forcing them to buy more small companies, rebalance their portfolios  or even merge with other schemes to ensure compliance. However, there was a pushback from various quarters and the broad sentiment was that fund managers must be free to pick stocks in the ratio they consider appropriate for their scheme’s investors. So, for example, fund managers may lower their exposure to small-caps in an overpriced market heading towards a correction, or even increase such exposure if they spot opportunities to provide higher returns for investors. The bottomline: let the fund managers alone decide. Multi-cap schemes are extremely popular with AUMs of nearly Rs 1.5 trillion, and, therefore, in order to accommodate investors and not cause upheaval in the stock prices of small companies, it was decided to create a new category under which business could go on as usual. Impact on funds The new category allows fund managers greater freedom. It also allows investors to choose funds where stocks are being selected on merit without being bound by market cap rules. 
Both flexi-cap and multi-cap categories will now co-exist though it is being seen that multi-cap funds have started reclassifying themselves as flexi-cap. Many multi-cap funds, including Kotak Standard Multicap, the biggest fund in the category with an AUM of Rs 29,807 crore, have announced their decision to become flexi-cap funds. It remains to be seen if new multi-cap funds are launched following this because their in-built diversification requiring at least 50 per cent allocation towards small companies may continue to attract new investors with high risk appetites. Impact on investors Existing funds in the multi-cap category can move to the new category. As this would mean a change in the investment style for the fund, their investors will be allowed to exit them without having to pay an exit load. They will be given 30 days to do so. A reclassification of a lock-in investment will not attract taxation. However, switching from one scheme to another will be considered a redemption. As a result, capital gains tax will be applicable. That said, investors must also evaluate if flexi-cap investments suit their financial objectives or if they are better off investing in other categories if they desire higher returns and greater diversification. If you were a multi-cap fund investor, your fund may likely become a flexi-cap, and it would behave the way it had before September. However, if your risk appetite is higher, you may consider funds with higher exposure to small companies. These funds would also include the new-look multi-caps. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Tata Steel eye Russian coking coal||Tata Steel has tested coking coal samples from Russia for making steel through the blast furnace route, its managing director and chief executive officer T.V. Narendran said. The development assumes significance in the domestic steel industry as a fruitful result of the experiment would break the monopoly of Australia in coking coal supply to India. According to official data, the country imports about 56 million tonnes (mt) of coking coal worth around Rs 72,000 crore. Of this, about 45mt is imported from Australia. “We have imported some coking coal from Russia. The east coast of Russia is a good source,” Narendran said. The CEO said this while replying to a question related to the company’s contribution to the steel ministry’s ongoing efforts to reduce India’s dependence on select countries for the sourcing of coking coal. Earlier, the ministry asked the steel makers to get in coking coal from Russia and test the raw material at their plants and update on the result of the same. Coking coal is a key raw material used for making steel using the blast furnace route, besides iron ore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||RBI hits 1m followers  on Twitter||In a first among central banks, the Reserve Bank of India has become the first monetary authority in the world to have more than 1 million followers on its official Twitter handle. Despite much less monetary firepower, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has beaten the world’s most powerful central banks — the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank — on Twitter by a wide margin, emerging as the most popular central bank on the microblogging site with over 1 million followers. As of Sunday, the RBI handle is followed by as many as 10,00,513 people around the world. Eighty-five-year-old Reserve Bank has been a latecomer in the world of Twitter as it created the account in January 2012. According to latest information on the RBI’s Twitter handle “RBI”, the number of followers has increased from 9.66 lakh on September 27, 2020 to over 10 lakh as of Sunday. “The RBI Twitter account reaches 1 million followers today. A new milestone. Congratulations to all my colleagues in the RBI,” governor Shaktikanta Das tweeted on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Edu-tech major Byju’s to raise $200m||Edu-tech major Byju’s is raising about $200 million (about Rs 1,483 crore) in fresh funding from investors, including BlackRock and T Rowe Price, according to sources. The development comes about two months after Byju’s had raised around $500 million (about Rs 3,672 crore) in a round that valued the company at $10.8 billion. According to sources, Byju’s has obtained $200 million in a fresh round of funding that has increased the company’s valuation to $12 billion. The sources said private equity players BlackRock and T Rowe Price are participating in the new round. Byju’s has mopped up significant capital this year. In June, Byju’s had raised funding from global technology investment firm BOND, while in February, it had raised about $200 million in funding from General Atlantic. Regulatory filings by Byju’s to the corporate affairs ministry in August had shown that the company has obtained about Rs 909 crore from billionaire Yuri Milner-led DST Global giving the entity 1.2 per cent shareholding in the edu-tech company. In September this year, Byju’s had raised funds from Silver Lake and existing investors, Tiger Global, General Atlantic and Owl Ventures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Airtel chairman pushes for telecom tariff hike||A telecom tariff hike is needed as the current rates are “unsustainable” and market conditions will be seen before a call is taken, telecom czar and chairman of Bharti Airtel Sunil Mittal has said. On the issue of whether Chinese telecom equipment vendors will be allowed to participate in next-generation 5G networks, Mittal said the larger question is that of the nation’s decision and asserted “what the country decides will be accepted by everyone”. The company has already taken a clear stance on the tariff issue, he said, adding that Airtel is of the firm view that tariffs need go up. “Current tariffs are unsustainable but Airtel cannot move without the industry moving or the regulator moving,” Mittal said. Industry needs a tariff hike at some point in time, he said, adding “we will have to see the market conditions to do it”. In August this year, Mittal had described 16GB data consumption a month for Rs 160 as a tragedy. The company has maintained that the average revenue per user (ARPU) should rise to Rs 200 and eventually to Rs 300 for a sustainable business model. Bharti Airtel’s mobile ARPU stood at Rs 162 for the September quarter compared with Rs 128 in the year-ago period, and Rs 157 in the preceding June quarter. The Bharti Group chairman — - who has time and again drawn attention to the high taxes and levies in the sector — further said telecom being a “high capital-intensive industry” required a steady flow investments into networks, spectrum, towers and technology and it was therefore important for the industry to be “sustainable”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Modi focus on skilling at G20 summit||Terming the Covid-19 pandemic an important turning point in the history of humanity and the biggest challenge the world is facing since World War II, Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the G20 summit called for a new global index based on talent, technology, transparency and trusteeship towards the planet in the post-corona world. Modi on Sunday said climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way and asserted that the entire world can progress faster if there is greater support of technology and finance to developing nations. The Prime Minister said “Work from Anywhere” is a new normal in the post-Covid world and suggested creation of a virtual G20 secretariat as a follow up and documentation repository. India is scheduled to host the G20 summit in 2022. Multi-skilling and re-skilling to build a talent pool will enhance dignity and resilience of workers, Modi said, adding that the value of new technologies should be measured by their benefit to humanity. Modi also offered India’s IT prowess to develop digital facilities for an efficient functioning of the G20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||G20 pledges fast Covid vaccine availability||Leaders of the 20 biggest economies on Sunday vowed to spare no effort to supply Covid-19 drugs, tests and vaccines affordably and fairly to “all people”, reflecting worries that the pandemic could deepen global divisions between the rich and the poor. The pandemic and the prospects of an uneven and uncertain economic recovery have been at the centre of a two-day summit under the chairmanship of Saudi Arabia, which will hand the G20 presidency to Italy next month. “The Covid-19 pandemic and its unprecedented impact in terms of the lives lost, livelihoods and economies affected, is an unparalleled shock that has revealed vulnerabilities in our preparedness and response and underscored our common challenges,” the final communique said. The G20 nations will work to “protect lives, provide support with a special focus on the most vulnerable, and put our economies back on a path to restoring growth, and protecting and creating jobs for all”. On vaccines, tests and treatments, the leaders said: “We will spare no effort to ensure their affordable and equitable access for all people.” The world’s economy has experienced a sharp contraction this year as measures to contain the spread of the virus have curbed transport, trade, and demand across the planet. G20 leaders said global economic activity has partially picked up thanks the gradual reopening of some economies but the recovery is uneven, highly uncertain and subject to downside risks. They reaffirmed their commitment to use “all available policy tools as long as required” to protect people’s lives, jobs, and incomes. Debt freeze The G20 has endorsed a plan to extend a freeze in debt service payments by the poorest countries to mid-2021 and a common approach for dealing with debt problems beyond that, according to the communique. The Debt Service Suspension Initiative has helped 46 countries defer $5.7 billion in 2020 debt service payments, short of the 73 countries that were eligible, and promised savings of around $12 billion. The head of the International Monetary Fund called for a prompt and effective implementation of the G20 framework for debt treatments beyond the initiative and said other countries needed help as well. “We must help those countries not covered by the Framework to address debt vulnerabilities so that their economies can become more resilient,” IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva said in a statement. In their joint statement, the leaders said they strongly encouraged private creditors to participate in the initiative on comparable terms when requested by eligible countries. Debt relief for Africa will be an important theme of the Italian presidency of the G20 in 2021.
The communique stressed the importance of multilateral institutions and called on the IMF to continue exploring additional tools that could help its members’ needs as the crisis evolves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Online automobile marketplace finds it difficult to source used vehicles||Droom, an online automobile marketplace that offers new as well as used cars of different brands, is finding it difficult to source used vehicles. Customers are hanging on to their old vehicles, postponing their decision to replace them in the pandemic situation. Despite the growing need for personal mobility induced by the Covid-19 pandemic and the increase in digital transactions, the company’s online used car business will only manage to reach its 2019 sales by the end of the year. “Through the months of June and July 2020 the entire industry faced supply constraints 
because of the lockdown. In the used car business, it was even more difficult as we faced a supply crunch because of financial uncertainties that forced people to delay the sale of old cars and replace them with new ones. On the other hand, the demand for used cars grew significantly,” said Akshay Singh, chief strategy officer, Droom. “The demand-supply mismatch impacted our sales but we will recover and by December-January we will be at the same level as last year,” said Singh. In 2019, Droom did business worth $1.2 billion (Rs 8,900 cr), said Singh. The company, which was founded in 2015, had registered a 100 per cent year-on-year growth last year. While the company sells anything on wheels, including wheelchairs and planes, automobiles constitute 95 per cent of its sales. The top sellers in the Droom platform are the Swift, the Swift Dzire and the i10. “The hatchbacks are good sellers and post pandemic we have witnessed a surge in the sales of these hatchbacks. The Japanese cars which have a good resale value also give us good numbers such as the Honda City, the Toyota Innova and the Toyota Corolla,” said Singh. The online automobile marketplace commands almost 80 per cent market share. It faces competition from classified companies such as OLX and Qwikr, content-driven companies such as cardekho and carwale and offline businesses Cars24, Mahindra First Choice and Maruti True Value.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||OYO sees pre-Covid year-end recovery||Hospitality chain OYO expects to recover 85 per cent of its pre-Covid level of supply of rooms in India by the end of 2020. The company has seen an improvement in occupancy and revenue after the lockdown and travel restrictions are being gradually eased. “After the first unlock, many states had restrictions on travel and hotels till the end of August. Since August-end, occupancies have seen a sharp rebound and revenues have been growing 30 per cent month-on-month. Our occupancies have recovered to around 40 per cent of the pre-Covid level with room sales increasing 30 per cent month-on-month. Some of the brands such as OYO TownHouse is operating at 85 per cent of the pre-Covid occupancy levels,” said Rohit Kapoor, CEO, OYO India and South Asia. Kapoor, who was in town, told The Telegraph that according to recent Diwali booking trends, the company has witnessed an intent to make bookings by consumers visiting the OYO platform at almost 100 per cent levels compared with pre-Covid times, while traffic is at over 50 per cent. “Travel is coming back slowly and we see an uptick in leisure travel with Jaipur, Kochi, Visakhapatnam, Agra and Goa becoming the most frequently visited destination. Some cities such as Shimla, Manali, Munnar, Ooty and Gangtok are also showing a rise in bookings since September,” said Kapoor. “In terms of revival of our India operations, I am cautiously optimistic about the market at the moment. Asset owners in India continue to choose OYO and we have opened 15,000 to 18,000 rooms per month between July and September and we are working towards achieving 85 per cent of pre-Covid levels of supply by the end of 2020,” Kapoor said. The company has made a few changes in its leadership team. Harshit Vyas has been elevated to the position of COO, India and South Asia, franchise business; Ankit Gupta is the CEO of frontier business; and Abhinav Ankur has been appointed chief strategy and transformation officer. Anuj Bhatnagar is  CFO, business; Abhishek Bansal is the chief revenue officer; and Yatish Jain is head of marketing and growth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-227
23-11-2020||Business||Jindal Steel self-reliant in coal with mine win||Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) plans to stop coal imports and end buying the dry fuel from Coal India Ltd from next year following its successful bidding of Gare Palma IV/1 mine in Chhattisgarh in the recently concluded commercial mining auction. “We hope to get the mines by April. At present, we import about 2 million tonnes (mt) and buy about 5mt from Coal India. We plan to stop the import of coal and also stop buying from CIL as the Gare Palma mine would cater to the needs of the plant. We would be self reliant, I would say,” Vidya Ratan Sharma, managing  director of JSPL told The Telegraph. The mine in Chhattisgarh is located near the company’s 3.4GW coal-fired power plant, with JSPL offering the state government 25 per cent of the revenues to win the rights. Gare Palma is estimated to generate Rs 652 crore revenue to the Jindals on reaching peak rated capacity, which is 6mt a year. Before the deallocation of coal blocks in 2014, the mine was operated by the Naveen Jinda company. Sharma said the country has huge coal reserves and these could be used optimally with the gasification process, a technology promoting clean energy. Stating the commercial mining auction would reduce the dependence on CIL, the JSPL MD said it would help those who did not get the mines to buy from the PSU. Apart from cutting down on imports, JSPL is looking to divest its mines in Africa and Australia as part of its plans to become a debt-free company.  JSPL has many coal and iron ore mines in Africa, especially  in South Africa, Botswana and Mozambique, and coking coal reserves in Australia. JSPL’s debt right now is Rs 29,000 crore and it would come down to Rs 24,000 crore by April, Sharma said. Meanwhile, group company Jindal Steel & Power (Mauritius) has accepted a binding offer from Templar Investments to divest its entire stake in its Oman asset, Jindal Shadeed Iron and Steel (JSIS Oman), with the enterprise value of the deal at over $1 billion. “We have learnt our lesson and want to keep our debt moderate or lean levels. We plan to bring down the debt to about Rs 15,000 crore by 2022-23 as we plan to pay back Rs 5,000 crore to Rs 6,000 crore each year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
23-11-2020||Business||RBI panel proposes bank licence for big NBFCs||Share prices of large NBFCs may rise if brokerages rerate them in the wake of an RBI panel proposing their entry into banking. The proposals of the committee, headed by P.K. Mohanty, RBI central board director, could potentially see Tata Capital, Bajaj Finance, Aditya Birla Capital, the Shriram group, Cholamandalam, L&T Finance or even Mahindra Finance applying for a bank licence. The panel has suggested “well run large NBFCs”, with an asset size of Rs 50,000 crore and above, including those of a corporate house, can become banks provided they have completed 10 years and meet the due diligence criterion among other conditions. These include the NBFCs setting up a bank through a wholly owned non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) structure and a rigorous examination of the fit and proper status of promoters and directors. The corporate or industrial house promoting such a bank must have a diversified ownership structure. While the panel has also proposed banks by business houses, their suggestions are more suited for conglomerates owning NBFCs, analysts said. Their optimism stems from the fact that the banking regulator may favourably look at proposals put by systematically important NBFCs seeking to convert into a bank. “At present, of the NBFCs having assets of Rs 50,000 crore or more, more than half are owned by corporate/industrial houses,” analysts at ICICI Securities said in a report. “We believe many NBFCs namely Bajaj Finance, L&T Finance, Mahindra Finance, Aditya Birla Capital, Tata Finance, Piramal will look at this opportunity but preferences from a regulator may be towards players having a vintage track record, scale, penetration along with meeting the due diligence criteria and conditions specified,” ICICI Securities said. Among the NBFCs, Bajaj Finance had an asset size of Rs 1,37,090 crore as of September 30, Shriram Transport Finance, Rs 1,13,350 crore and Mahindra Finance over Rs 83,000 crore. Though the latest numbers of Tata Capital are not available, it had an AUM of over Rs 76,000 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. On the other hand, the Birla group’s NBFC arm had a loan book of almost Rs 58,000 crore. “Some of the NBFC stocks are likely to be re-rated as expectations builds up over who are likely to bag the banking license,” an analyst with a foreign brokerage said, indicating there could still be some upside left as values of some of the stocks have showed a sharp run-up since their lows during the nationwide lockdown. The sector has witnessed multiple headwinds that include the IL&FS crisis and the Covid-19 pandemic which hit collections. However, their performance was better than expected during the second quarter ended September 30 as abundant liquidity thanks to the policies of the RBI, improving collection efficiency and even asset quality surprised brokerages on the positive side. “We are more positive on the sector. There are green shoots of recovery in growth across segments. Auto volumes have seen steady growth for the past 2-3 months. This is likely to sustain going forward too. Housing sales witnessed a rebound in September and October. However, sustenance of this in unclear at present,” Motilal Oswal Institutional Equities said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-228
