24-11-2020||Business||Markets surge to lifetime highs, Nifty breaches 13,000-mark||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty rallied to fresh lifetime highs on Tuesday following heavy buying in banking, financial, realty and auto counters amid persistent foreign capital inflows. A strengthening rupee also boosted market sentiments, traders said. After scaling a record intra-day high of 44,601.63, the 30-share BSE Sensex ended 445.87 points or 1.01 per cent higher at a record 44,523.02. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 128.70 points or 1 per cent to close above the 13,000-mark for the first time at 13,055.15. Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 4 per cent, followed by M&M, HDFC Bank, ITC, SBI, ICICI Bank, Maruti, Kotak Bank and Sun Pharma. On the other hand, HDFC, Titan, Nestle India, Bharti Airtel, ONGC and Infosys were among the laggards. Sector-wise, BSE banks, auto and finance indices rose to 2.37 per cent. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,738.44 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. The rupee appreciated 10 paise to close at 74.01 against the US dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant gains, while Shanghai closed in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.85 per cent to USD 46.45 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 250 pts in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 250 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, Maruti, ONGC and Axis Bank amid positive cues from global markets and unabated foreign fund inflows. After touching a lifetime intra-day high of 44,358.71, the 30-share BSE index was trading 271.48 points or 0.62 per cent higher at 44,348.63 in the opening session. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched the 13,000 mark for the first time ever as it rose 76.65 points or 0.59 per cent to 13,003.10. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 1.60 per cent, followed by Maruti, ONGC, Axis Bank, L&T, Titan, ICICI Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Nestle India, Infosys and Hindustan Unilever were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 194.90 points or 0.44 per cent higher at 44,077.15, and NSE Nifty rose 67.40 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 12,926.45. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,738.44 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading in with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Bourses in the US ended on a positive note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.85 per cent higher at USD 46.45 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Delhi HC seeks Centre’s reply on Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules plea||The Delhi high court Monday sought the Centre’s reply on a plea challenging a provision in the Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules which mandate that an entity selling goods and services online has to be registered as a company in India. A bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued a notice to the ministry of consumer affairs seeking its stand on the petition by an individual who provides online content creating services. The petitioner, Dhruv Sethi, has contended that the rule under challenge forces sole proprietorships like his to register as an incorporated company for carrying out e-commerce business. Senior advocate Anand Grover and advocate Samyak Gangwal, appearing for Sethi, told the court that the effect of the impugned rule was that every business enterprise which is not a company is excluded from the e-commerce space or they will have to sell through platforms such as  Amazon or Flipkart.
The bench, during the hearing, suggested that the petitioner can get listed on Amazon to sell his goods and services. To this suggestion, his lawyers said that then he would have to pay Amazon for the same which he would not have to do if he is selling it himself. The petition claims that the norm is beyond the rule making powers of the central government under the Consumer Protection Act. Sethi, who also sells custom merchandise like t-shirts through his portal 'Where Next Daily', has said he would be personally affected by the rule. He has contended that the rule is ultra vires the Constitution “as it discriminates against all forms of legitimate business organisations like sole proprietorships, limited liability partnerships, hindu undivided families, etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Iron ore crunch chokes Bengal steel mills||A change in the government’s policy along with a mad scramble for precious minerals have snuffed out supplies of iron ore in the eastern region, dealing a major blow  to the steel industry, especially those located in Bengal. Availability of iron ore has come down to half and prices nearly doubled to Rs 7,500 a tonne for some grade after a slew of mines were auctioned as part of the Modi government’s avowed agenda to bring transparency in the allocation of the country’s scarce mineral resources. Miners and large corporations offered big bucks to get control of the assets, but the high price of acquisition has affected commercial exploitation of the resource, crippling supply in the marketplace.
Steel mill owners say only 12 merchant mines — the ones which used to supply ore to small units — in Odisha are operational at present, while at least 20 are closed. All 11 such mines in Jharkhand are not in production as well. All small steel mills, who cannot afford to own a mine like the big daddies such as Tata Steel, SAIL or JSW, are in a spot of bother as they depend on the merchant miners for ore. The units in Bengal are the worst affected. The state, which does not have iron ore mines unlike neighbouring Odisha and Jharkhand, sources about 2 million tonnes ore monthly. Mill owners say supplies have come down to half and they fear it would slide down further. While a PSU Odisha Mining Corporation offers assured supply to steel mills located in that state, no such home advantage exists for Bengal units.
“The industry’s capacity utilisation has come down due to shortage in Bengal. It may go down further. We are ready to pay a higher price but ore should be available,” said Shankarlal Agarwal, president of West Bengal Iron & Steel Manufacturers Association. Mill owners sought the immediate intervention of the Centre and proposed a combination of measures such as ban on iron ore and pellet export, fixing iron ore rate or take over closed mines by state/central PSUs. Union steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan concurred with the concerns raised by the steel players from Bengal during an interaction last week. Mad scramble Nineteen blocks were auctioned earlier this year after lease on those assets came to an end by March 31. Only two mines were retained by the old leaseholders, while 17 of them changed hands. Sajjan Jindal’s JSW Steel bagged the major share with four mines, while ArcelorMittal and Jindal Steel & Power Ltd grabbed one each. An industry estimate suggests that during April-September only 4.06 million tonnes were produced from these mines, but 93 per cent of them were done by JSW and Mittals to feed their respective plants. These mines had sanction to produce over 24 mt during this period. The leases of Jharkhand blocks lapsed too but they have not been auctioned yet. The mines taken by the non-captive users have hardly produced at all. While the mining industry blamed it on procedural delay, steel mill owners say the high prices of the auction were to blame. The lowest a miner agreed to pay  was about 95 per cent of the quarterly price declared by Indian Bureau of Mine (IBM), which is linked to market price. The highest topped 150 per cent. But a miner is liable to pay another 30 per cent on account of three levies, apart from accounting for its own expense of lifting the ore.
“It is just not viable for the miners. More they mine, the higher they incur loss. They prefer to keep it shut,” said an industry observer, calling into question the mad rush to bid at a clearly uneconomical rate.
Incidentally, Rungta and Essel Mining, who had most of these assets previously, did not go aggressive in the auction. The operational mines, some of which are run by state PSU Odisha Mining Corporation, are also operating at their 50 per cent of the rated capacity, hoping for a better price ahead. The government had allowed the old leaseholders to dispose of fines and ore lying at the pit-head by October 31. After the expiry of the deadline, supply crunch may go up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Coal India to set up 3GW solar power capacity by 2023-24||Coal India on Monday said it planned to set up 3GW solar power capacity by 2023-24 at an estimated investment of Rs 5,650 crore. A total of 14 rooftop and ground mounted solar power projects are planned as part of the efforts of the company to diversify and manage its energy costs. Of the proposed investment, Rs 3,650 crore will be funded from Coal India’s own capital expenditure till 2023-24 and the remaining amount will be met through joint ventures of the public sector miner. Coal India and NLC India have floated a joint venture company — Coal Lignite Urja Vikas Private Limited —  to develop 1,000MW solar power projects. The joint venture company came into being earlier this month. Coal India has also formed a joint venture with NTPC and has entered into a memorandum of understanding with Solar Energy Corporation of India for solar projects of 1,000MW each and the miner has initiated discussions with NTPC for the purchase of 140 MW of solar power under government’s CPSE scheme. According to Coal India officials, the solar initiative would reduce the annual power consumption expense which was around Rs 3,400 crore in 2019-20, accounting for 4.4 per cent of expenses for the year.
Coal India has generated 4.6 million units of solar power from its existing projects in 2019-20 and 4.25 million units in 2018-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
24-11-2020||Business||Motilal Oswal 5 Year G-sec ETF to be launched soon||Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company on Monday announced the launch of India’s first-of-its-kind “Motilal Oswal 5 Year G-sec ETF”. The exchange-traded fund by Motilal Oswal AMC is expected to provide strong asset allocation opportunity. For those investing in ETFs, this fund comes in addition to the Motilal Oswal ETF suite which comprises Nifty 50 ETF, Nifty Midcap 100 ETF, Nasdaq 100 ETF. The NFO will open on November 23 and close on December 2, 2020. A statement from the fund house said that the latest ETF seeks investment return that closely corresponds (before fees and expenses) to the total returns of the securities as represented by the “Nifty five year Benchmark G-Sec Index”, subject to tracking error. However, there can be no assurance or guarantee that the investment objective of the scheme would be achieved. The ETF offers investors an attractive low-cost alternative to fixed deposit as it has practically no default risk, no lock-in, and historically attractive pre- and post-tax returns, the statement added. “The launch of Motilal Oswal 5 Yr G-Sec ETF adds to our repertoire of investor centric products and deepens our product offering for the investor community,” said Navin Agarwal, MD and CEO Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company Ltd. “The Motilal Oswal 5 year G-Sec ETF will invest in underlying constituent of Nifty 5 year Benchmark G-sec Index. The index falls in a sweet spot between short duration and long duration G-Sec indices..With safety being a primary need of debt investors today, the ETF fits well for investors who are looking for safety along with better tax advantages compared to traditional fixed income products.” Pratik Oswal, Head of Passive Funds, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company Ltd added. The minimum application amount during NFO is Rs 500.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Stocks shake off fears of fresh lockdown||Reports of states such as Maharashtra mulling fresh curbs because of a spike in coronavirus cases affected the markets on Monday which witnessed heavy volatility with the Sensex rising 195 points at the end of the day. On the BSE, the 30-share Sensex opened above the 44000 mark at 44164.17 amid positive sentiments because of reports of more success by firms in the Covid-19 vaccine trials. However, the shares came under pressure on reports that Maharashtra — home to India’s financial capital — could take a decision on a fresh lockdown within 8-10 days. With cases again seeing an increase across the country, it was feared the virus would impact economic activity and growth which are showing signs of an upswing. The Sensex initially fell to  an intra-day low of 43747.22 — down 135 points over its last close. Stocks soon regained their composure on optimism over the vaccine as the gauge hit a record intra-day high of 44271.15. Thereafter, the index ended 194.90 points, or 0.44 per cent higher at 44077.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 67.40 points, or 0.52 per cent, to close at 12926.45. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 7 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Infosys, Tech Mahindra, Reliance Industries, HCL Tech and TCS. On the other hand, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and M&M were the laggards. “Global cues were positive post the news that AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine could be around 90 per cent effective without any serious side effects, which follows a string of encouraging vaccine results in recent weeks,” Siddhartha Khemka of Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. “Investors pinned hopes for economic revival on coronavirus vaccines, despite surging cases globally and delays to fresh US stimulus,” he added. Asia trends In Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 1.64 per cent to $ 45.81 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||India likely to post a current account surplus: K. V. Subramanian||The country is likely to post a current account surplus at the end of this fiscal, mainly led by a fall in imports, the chief economic adviser said on Monday. Speaking at an event organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, CEA K. V. Subramanian stressed on growth to be accompanied by job creation to make it sustainable.  “We don’t want Covid to create any permanent impact on the economy.” The CEA said the pandemic was essentially a crisis in demand and India’s response was crafted to manage the sharp drop in demand. A drop in demand reflects in the fall in imports and a surge in current account surplus. “You can see it is reflected in the fact that this year we may be having a current account surplus. We had almost $20 billion current account surplus in Q1... $19.8 billion to be precise. Even if let’s say the subsequent quarters do not see that kind of performance, we still will likely have a current account surplus,” he said. The balance of payments (BoP), which includes the current account and invisibles, will also show a surplus as a result. The economy is forecast to contract 8-10 per cent in the current fiscal, though many international financial institutions and rating agencies have lowered their forecasts in contraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||FM Nirmala Sitharaman pledges more reforms||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the momentum gained by the reform process would continue and make India a favoured destination for global investors. Sitharaman claimed several sovereign wealth funds have expressed their interest to fund the Modi government’s ambitious $1.5-trillion National Infrastructure pipeline project. The Centre has seen the pandemic as an opportunity to push reforms that remained pending for decades, she said. “The momentum for reform shall continue. Several more active reform-related steps are being taken up. The Prime Minister has not lost the opportunity for reforms even at this time,” Sitharaman said at the National MNCs Conference 2020. Sitharaman said the Centre is developing the  single window clearance for investors. “Effective unified single window will be made available to investors so that access to policymakers and regulators will be available.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Sebi relaxes rules for promoters looking to change status||The market regulator proposes to change the minimum threshold for voting rights for the re-classification of a promoter as a public shareholder and suggested that all promoter entities disclose their shareholding even in the case of “nil” holding. Under the proposal, Sebi said the re-classification condition on shareholding should be amended such that the promoter and related persons seeking re-classification should not together hold 15 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the listed entity. At present, the minimum threshold requirement is 10 per cent. The regulator received a feedback from market participants to review the current threshold of 10 per cent so that the persons who may have been promoters but are no longer in day-to-day control, having shareholding of less than 15 per cent, may “opt-out” from being classified as promoters without having to reduce their shareholding. Relaxation from existing requirement on a case-to-case basis has been given by Sebi and the existing provisions should be revisitied to minimise the number of exemptions provided on a case-to-case basis, the regulator said in a consultation paper. “The exemption from... Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements (LODR), as extended in the case of re-classification of promoter may also be extended to re-classification pursuant to an order/direction of the government / regulator and/or as a consequence of operation of law,” Sebi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Rajan, Acharya flay PK Mohanty panel recommendation ||The recommendation of the PK Mohanty panel to allow business houses to enter banking has got a big thumbs-down from former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-deputy governor Viral Acharya. Pointing out that the idea is “best left on the shelf”, the duo said in a joint article that it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on the involvement of business houses in the banking sector. According to the duo, one of the major reasons not to allow corporates into banking is that they will get financing, no-questions asked if there is an in-house bank. Here, they reminded the RBI that it is not possible for the banking regulator to track every loans given. “Even an independent regulator, with all the information in the world, finds it difficult to be in every nook and corner of the financial system to stop poor lending. Information on loan performance is rarely timely or accurate. Yes Bank managed to conceal its weak exposure for considerable periods,” they said. The second reason cited by Rajan and Acharya to disallow corporate entry into banking is that it will further exacerbate the concentration of economic (and political) power in certain business houses. “Even if banking licences are allotted fairly, it will give undue advantage to large business houses that already have the initial capital that has to be put up. Moreover, highly indebted and politically connected business houses will have the greatest incentive and ability to push for licences,” they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||S&P Global Ratings sceptical about corporate ownership in banks||S&P Global Ratings on Monday expressed scepticism over allowing corporate ownership in banks given India’s weak corporate governance amid large corporate defaults over the past few years. It also said that the RBI will face challenges in supervising non-financial sector entities at a time the health of the financial sector is weak. The performance of India’s corporate sector over the past few years has been weak with large corporate defaults, it said, adding that non-performing loans (NPLs) for the corporate sector stood at around 13 per cent of total corporate loans as of March 2020 (around 18 per cent as of March 2018), highlighting the more pronounced risk in India compared with other countries. The US-based rating agency, however, said the RBI panel’s recommendations on awarding new licences to well-managed Indian non-bank financial companies could improve financial stability||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business|| RBI proposal for industrial houses to set up banks||The proposal by an RBI panel to let industrial houses set up banks and large NBFCs convert themselves into banks have enough deterrents to stop the big players in their tracks. In fact, the RBI had come out with guidelines for private sector banks seven years ago in 2013 but did not get the response with the houses of Tatas and Mahindras deciding to stay away from the business because of the onerous conditions. While the finance arm of the Mahindras withdrew before the application deadline, Tata Sons backed out later. The PK Mohanty committee of the RBI has recommended that industrial houses can set up banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulations Act, 1949 to deal with connected lending and exposures between banks and other financial and non-financial group entities. The committee has proposed strengthening the supervisory mechanism of large conglomerates, including “consolidated supervision”, implying  the Reserve Bank of India  can supervise other entities in a group as well. Non-operative financial holding company (NOFHC) should continue to be the preferred structure for all new licensees. But NOHFC is mandatory if the individual promoters have other group entities. This was the main reason why the Tatas had dropped out as its overseas entities which provided financing solutions would have to be brought under the NOFHC umbrella. Among large NBFCs, factors such as maintenance of the cash reserve ratio (CRR) and statutory liquidity ratio (SLR) which pose additional costs are likely to be the deterrents. The Mahindras at the time of dropping its plans to become a bank in 2013 had cited the RBI guidelines on maintaining CRR and SLR right from the start of operations . The group had said if the RBI guidelines permit co-existence of a bank and non-bank in the same group, it will review the decision. “A bank has to provide a very wide range of services, maintain SLR and CRR requirements and operate at a much higher cost structure compared with NBFCs. So a NBFC will have to weigh the pros and cons after the final guidelines, and understand the impact for stakeholders before considering a conversion to a bank,” Umesh Revankar, managing director and chief executive officer, Shiram Transport Finance, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
24-11-2020||Business||Rajan, Acharya slam RBI proposal for corporate ownership of banks||Raghuram Rajan and Viral Acharya — two former regulators on Mint Street — have slammed the recommendation of an internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India to allow large industrial houses to run banks in India. Terming the recommendation a “bombshell”, former RBI governor Rajan and deputy governor Viral Acharya said the banking regulator needs to tread this path with caution, especially after the near-collapse of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (ILFS) and Yes Bank in the past year. “Why now? Have we learnt something which allows us to override all the prior cautions on allowing industrial houses into banking?” the former regulators who had testy relations with the Narendra Modi government said in a joint article on professional networking site LinkedIn. They wondered why there was a sudden urgency. Business houses with political connections would push for the banking licences, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-226
