25-11-2020||Business||Bengal, Kerala accept Centre’s proposal to meet GST shortfall||Bengal and Kerala, which were among the states that had opposed the Centre’s borrowing plan to meet GST revenue shortall, have accepted the proposal and will get Rs 10,197 crore through a special window. "Governments of Kerala and West Bengal have communicated their acceptance of Option-1 to meet the revenue shortfall arising out of GST implementation. The number of states who have chosen this option has gone up to 25," the Ministry of Finance said in a statement. “All the three Union Territories with Legislative Assembly -- Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry -- have also decided in favour of Option-1,” the statement added. The Centre has, in four installments, borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of states and passed it on to 23 of them as well as three UTs on October 23, November 2, November 9 and November 23. “Now, Kerala and West Bengal will receive funds raised through this starting from the next round of borrowings,” the ministry said. "Kerala and West Bengal will get Rs 10,197 crore through a special borrowing window to meet the GST implementation shortfall," its statement added. Under the terms of Option-1, besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowings permitted by the Centre under Aatmanirbhar Abhiyaan. This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. The Centre has also granted an additional permission of borrowing Rs  4,522 crore to Kerala and Rs 6,787 crore to West Bengal, as it received their choice for Option-1. States including Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and Uttarakhand have also opted for Option-1. Union Territories like Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry have also chosen this option. Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand are among the states that have refused to agree to the plan, saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore shortfall. Kerala and Bengal were also a part of this group. Under the borrowing plan (Option-1), the Centre would borrow from market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore collection shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Government approves merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with DBS Bank||The government on Wednesday approved the merger of crisis-ridden Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India Ltd (DBIL) and removed restrictions on withdrawal of deposits by depositors. The Union Cabinet has approved the merger of the LVB with DBS Bank India Limited, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters, adding the decision will provide comfort to 20 lakh depositors and protect the services of 4,000 employees. "Cabinet approves Scheme of Amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank with DBS Bank India Limited; with this there will no further restrictions on the depositors regarding the withdrawal of their deposits," the official spokesperson said in a tweet. The minister said that those responsible for deteriorating financial health of the LVB would be penalised. The government had earlier on November 17 on the advice of the RBI imposed a 30-day moratorium on the crisis-ridden LVB restricting cash withdrawal at Rs 25,000 per depositor. The RBI simultaneously placed in the public domain a draft scheme of amalgamation of LVB with DBIL, a banking company incorporated in India under Companies Act, 2013, and having its Registered Office at New Delhi. The Reserve Bank had also superseded the board of the LVB and appointed T N Manoharan, former non-executive chairman of Canara Bank, as an administrator of the bank for 30 days. LVB is the second private sector bank after Yes Bank which has run into rough weather during this year. In March, capital-starved Yes Bank was placed under a moratorium. The government rescued Yes Bank by asking state-run State Bank of India to infuse Rs 7,250 crore and take 45 per cent stake in the bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Sensex plunges 695 points on profit-booking||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 695 points on Wednesday, tracking heavy profit-booking in index majors HDFC Bank, Infosys and Kotak Bank amid mixed cues from global markets. After touching a lifetime high of 44,825.37 in opening session, the 30-share BSE index ended 694.92 points or 1.56 per cent lower at 43,828.10. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a record intra-day peak of 13,145.85, before ending 196.75 points or 1.51 per cent down at 12,858.40. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, falling around 3 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Finance and Asian Paints. On the other hand, ONGC, PowerGrid and IndusInd Bank were the gainers. "Domestic equities witnessed sharp correction today as profit booking was seen across the counters," said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. As expected, high volatility was seen ahead of monthly derivatives expiry, he noted. "Having seen a sharp jump in the last couple of trading days, a profit booking was broadly expected," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul settled in the red, while Tokyo and Hong Kong ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a mixed note in early deals. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 1.15 per cent higher at USD 48.33 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points to scale fresh peak in opening session||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid largely positive cues from global markets and persistent foreign fund inflows. After touching a lifetime high of 44,825.37 in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 242.76 points or 0.55 per cent higher at 44,765.78. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty touched a record intra-day peak of 13,145.85, before trading 76.25 points or 0.58 per cent up at 13,131.40. ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, Asian Paints, Bajaj Finance and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 445.87 points or 1.01 per cent higher at a record high of 44,523.02, and Nifty rose 128.70 points or 1 per cent to close above the 13,000-mark for the first time at 13,055.15. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 4,563.18 crore on a net basis on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic equities continued to look good at the moment on favourable global cues, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Strong FPIs flow emerged as the main contributor to domestic markets' sharp rally in November. Monthly futures and options (F&O) expiry is expected to create some amount of volatility hereon," he added. He further noted that US equities closed sharply higher as investors continued to cheer the progress on COVID-19 vaccines along with ease of political uncertainty after Trump's administration indicated a smooth transition for President-elect Joe Biden to the White House. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 1.26 per cent higher at USD 48.38 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Landline to mobile calls to start by dialling 0||Callers will soon be required to add the ‘0’ prefix for making calls from landlines to mobile phones in the country, with the telecom department asking telcos to make necessary arrangements by January 1 to implement the new system. The department has accepted sectoral regulator Trai’s recommendation for having the ‘0’ prefix for such calls, a move that will create sufficient numbering space for telecom services. The department of telecom (DoT) in a circular on ‘modification of dialling pattern from fixed line numbers to cellular mobile numbers’ said in order to ensure adequate numbering resources for fixed line and mobile services, Trai’s recommendations dated May 29, 2020 have been accepted by the department. “Following may be implemented...Fixed-to-mobile calls shall be dialled with prefix ‘0’. Suitable announcement may be fed in the fixed line switches to apprise the fixed line subscribers about the requirement of dialling the prefix ‘0’ for all fixed-to-mobile calls,” DoT said in a circular dated November 20. This announcement should be played whenever a subscriber dials a fixed-to-mobile call without prefixing ‘0’, it said. ⦾ What has happened: By starting with 0 you have an 11-digit mobile number for land to mobile calls ⦾ What can we expect: Possible first step to switch to 11 digit mobile numbers. Existing numbers will be prefixed with zero, but new numbers can start with any other number. Numbering resources will, therefore, increase||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Toyota extends lockout at Bidadi||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) is taking a major hit in production as it decided to extend the lockout at its plant in Bidadi, Karnataka. Most Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) are trying to ramp up production to meet an uptick in demand after eight months of sluggish sales. However, TKM is not being able to produce at optimum levels because of the workers’ unrest. “Production is affected. It would have been higher had we had 90 per cent of the workers in two shifts at the factory. But we have stocks at the dealership as well as stocks in transit that will last the month. And we are continuing production with workers who have signed the good conduct form,” said a company spokesperson. The company on Tuesday decided to extend the lockout as the situation remains “volatile” over unresolved issues between workers and management. The company has rolled out a new version of its MPV Innova Crysta, which has sold 3 lakh units since its launch in 2016. TKM has retained a 43 per cent market share in the MPV segment with the Innova Crysta. The Innova line was launched in India in 2005 and has sold 8,80,000 units, including the Crysta. Naveen Soni, senior vice-president, sales and service, TKM, said, “The new and bolder Innova Crysta continues that legacy in accordance with our tradition of customer-first approach.” The Innova Crysta is available in the price range of Rs 16,26,000 to Rs 24,33,000 (ex-showroom).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Regulator confirms Karvy ban||Market watchdog Sebi on Tuesday confirmed the ban on Karvy Stock Broking Ltd (KSBL) from taking new clients and directed stock exchanges as well as depositories to take appropriate action against the entity and its directors. The regulator passed the final order a year after passing an interim order, wherein it had imposed a ban on KSBL for misusing clients’ securities. KSBL has also been prohibited from alienating any of its assets, except with prior permission of the National Stock Exchange (NSE), till the settlement of claims of investors. The final order came after the regulator received a forensic audit report from the NSE in the matter. The bourse has already expelled KSBL from its membership and declared the brokerage house as a defaulter. The directions issued against KSBL in the ex-parte order passed in November 2019 are operating against it till date, Sebi said in the final order. Confirming the directions issued in the interim order, Sebi said, “Transfer of funds/ securities made by the KSBL to its clients subsequent to Sebi order dated November 22, 2019, would not absolve KSBL or its directors from violations of the provisions of the securities laws, as have been found in the forensic audit report received in the matter”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Oil imports down 20.2% in the 7 months of the current fiscal ||Crude oil imports fell 20.2 per cent during the seven months of the current fiscal and estimates are that the imports in the current fiscal would be down over 12 per cent because of subdued demand. Crude imports decreased 21.6 per cent in October and 20.2 per cent during April-October 2020 compared with the corresponding period of the previous year, according to data released by the petroleum ministry. Analysts estimate imports to fall 12.7 per cent during 2020-21 to 3.97 million barrels per day given the subdued demand from the Indian refiners. India imported 227 million tonnes for $101.4 billion in 2019-20. In volumes, imports stood at 4.5 million barrels per day during 2019-20 and are currently at around 3.6 million barrels per day during during the seven months of 2020-21. “Refiners have almost stocked up on cheap crude as directed by the government but even as the country is in its unlock phase, there won’t be an incremental demand for oil products anytime soon. Because of the fall in demand, import dependency is also likely to fall from the previous 85 per cent. Currently import dependency based on consumption is 82.4 per cent,” Care Ratings said in a research report. Consumption is expected to fall 10.4 per cent in this fiscal to around 4.5 million barrels per day compared with 5.09 million barrels per day in 2019-20. At present, India consumes 4 million barrels  per day. With the spread of the contagion , Indians have become wary of travel, which is impacting the incremental need for transportation fuels. Indian refineries usually operate at more than their capacity but given the current situation most of them are  operating at less than full capacity  to contain the level of rising inventories and protect their margins. Refiners are expected to increase their capacity in the coming months as the economy has been unlocking in a phased manner but with most of the Indian states re-imposing curfews and it could act a major detriment for demand of petroleum products. The price of Brent Crude averaged $40.15/bbl during October, 2020 as against $40.81/bbl during September 2020 and $59.72/bbl during October 2019. The Indian basket crude price averaged $40.66/bbl during October 2020 as against $41.35/bbl during September 2020 and $59.70 /bbl during October 2019, the oil ministry data showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
25-11-2020||Business||Nifty crosses 13000-mark||The Nifty on Tuesday closed above the 13000 mark for the first time and the Sensex scaled new peaks riding on banking, auto and FMCG stocks as reports of progress in Covid-19 vaccine trials boosted the hopes of a swift economic recovery with robust inflows of foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) providing additional ballast. The Dow Jones Industrial Average also topped 30000 for the first time ever on Tuesday, extending a stock-market rally attributed to continued progress toward a Covid-19 vaccine as well as the removal of a roadblock to a smooth transition to a Biden administration. However, trading volumes were expected to remain subdued ahead of the Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday when markets will be closed, with only half a day of trading scheduled for Friday. Investors in India took their cues from positive results of the coronavirus vaccine in safety trials. Five vaccine candidates are in advanced stages of development in India, of which four are in Phase II/III trials and one in in Phase-I/II level. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday held a meeting with the chief ministers where they discussed the creation of cold storage facilities for the vaccine. Various high frequency indicators have recently shown the domestic economy is picking up steam and market circles said the expectations of a speedy recovery are behind the rush to buy stocks even though some regions are reporting an increasing number of infections leading to apprehensions of restrictions being reimposed by some states. A crucial factor is the huge global liquidity that has led to strong FPI inflows. So far in November, these investors have brought stocks worth a whopping Rs 53,000 crore. Provisional data showed they made net purchases of over Rs 4,563 crore on Tuesday. During this calendar year, they have invested more than Rs 1 lakh crore in equities. “I have never seen such frenzied buying by foreign investors in the secondary markets. Not even in 2007 did we see such euphoric buying in such a short period of time,” investment adviser Sandip Sabharwal tweeted. Hemang Jani of Motilal Oswal Financial Services said the purchases by the FPIs in November are the highest in the last two decades. Corporate performance has also been much better than analyst expectations, while the fears of a spike in bad loans have been replaced by optimism on better collection efficiency and improved asset quality. “The overall sentiments are strong and the market outlook is positive going forward. If the foreign fund inflows continue we can see higher levels on Nifty in coming days or weeks. Nifty can possibly touch 13200-13400 levels also,” according to Motilal Oswal’s Jani who heads the equity strategy, broking and distribution business of the firm. “But it also depends on the sustainability of the economic growth over the next few months after the festive season. Hence at the current market levels it is advisable to partially book profits and sit on 15-20 per cent cash in the portfolio. Any corrections in the market can be used to deploy funds at lower levels,” Jani said. The 30-share Sensex opened strong at 44341.19 and scaled a lifetime intra-day high of 44601.63. It later settled 445.87 points or 1.01 per cent higher at a record 44523.02. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty climbed 128.70 points or 1 per cent to close above the 13000 mark at 13055.15. RIL on Tuesday notified the bourses that Google has paid Rs 33,737 crore for a 7.73 per cent stake in its digital subsidiary, Jio Platforms Ltd, joining the list of global investors such as Facebook. With this, Jio Platforms has raised a total of Rs 1.52 lakh crore by selling nearly a 33 per cent stake to 13 financial and strategic investors in just 11 weeks. This has helped RIL erase its net debt much ahead of the March 2021 target.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||Mercedes-Benz ties up with SBI for schemes||Luxury car maker Mercedes-Benz India has tied up with the State Bank of India to offer attractive financing schemes on buying a Mercedes vehicle. The collaboration will give the German auto maker access to SBI’s high-net-worth customer base, while the bank’s customers will enjoy exclusive benefits while booking a Mercedes-Benz. The collaboration will offer attractive rates of interest and additional benefits worth Rs 25,000 for YONO customers who book a Mercedes-Benz on SBI’s digital platform. Martin Schwenk, managing director & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India, said, “Mercedes-Benz has been constantly exploring new avenues to reach out to a potential customer base and this is the first time we are collaborating with any bank.” C.S. Setty, managing director (retail & digital banking), SBI said, “With attractive interest rates and customised benefits, including a smart digital option of booking the Mercedes on YONO, we look forward to witnessing our HNI customers getting home the car synchronising with their lifestyles.” SBI and Mercedes-Benz will promote the partnership over online and offline channels, including across branches and dealerships in order to reach the maximum number of customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||Tata group inches closer to the acquisition of Bigbasket ||The Tata group is inching closer to the acquisition of Bigbasket that will put the salt-to-software conglomerate in direct competition with JioMart, Amazon India and Walmart-owned Flipkart apart from boosting its attempt to create a super-app that will offer a wide range of products under one roof. On Tuesday, a CNBC-TV18 report said the deal has entered the last lap and it could be closed at the end of this month. The Tatas are looking to acquire a majority stake in Bigbasket, which is amongst the largest e-grocers in the country and is reportedly valued at $1.23 billion. The Tata group could pay close to $1 billion for the transaction. It is likely to buy the entire 29 per cent stake held by Alibaba apart from that held by a couple of other shareholders as well. The rest of the investors in Bigbasket include Abraaj group, Ascent Capital, Helion Venture Partners and the CDC group. The acquisition comes at a time the Indian government has placed riders on Chinese investments in the country. More importantly, since the Covid-19 outbreak, the online mode has gained acceptance not only in the metros but also in Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities. Bigbasket has over 18,000 products and 1,000 brands in its catalogue. It currently serves cities such as Calcutta, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Delhi, Noida, Mysore and Coimbatore. The entry of the Tata group into online grocery could heighten competition, particularly at a time Reliance Retail is looking to expand its footprint after a successful fund-raising exercise. Reliance Retail Ventures recently said it has completed the current phase of partner induction and the fund-raising exercise through which it mobilised Rs 47,265 crore from nine financial partners. Analysts at Bernstein said in a recent report that the India retail market was around $700 billion in 2018. This is expected to show a compounded annual growth rate of 10 per cent and reach $1.3 trillion by 2025. “The Indian e-commerce market is the largest opportunity in the Indian internet ecosystem. It is expected to reach $133 billion by 2025 from $24 billion in 2018, around 30 per cent CAGR,” the report added. This is a $ 100 billion incremental opportunity. The winner in the Indian E-commerce market will be the one with the most compelling integrated value proposition’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||Swadeshi Jagran Manch oppose LVB merger plan||RSS-affiliated Swadeshi Jagran Manch has staunchly opposed the RBI supervised merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with Singapore-based DBS, alleging the deal lacks transparency and is in contrary to the Modi government’s much vaunted Atmanirbhar Bharat policies. “Appreciate the intent of the RBI to protect the depositors’ in LVB, we believe the same end could be achieved without compromising national interests. The proposal is not transparent and casts a shadow on the fair name of the Reserve Bank of India,” Ashwani Mahajan, national co-convenor of the SJM, wrote in a letter to RBI governor  Shaktikanta Das. Mahajan said in the letter in the 60 years since the first of the 81 bank mergers in 1961, not one involved a foreign bank. “Why is LVB being merged now with a foreign bank? Is this the new policy of the RBI and the government of India? If so, this should be debated and its implications examined thoroughly in the national interest. Why is the RBI changing fundamental policy without transparency? What has been proposed is contrary to the Atmanirbhar Bharat direction of the Prime Minister,” Mahajan wrote. Mahajan said when an Indian bank is merged with a foreign bank, it is immediately exposed to the risks of the foreign bank. The policies and shareholders’ interests’ of the foreign bank become the principal criteria for decision making of that bank. “What if the foreign bank, DBS in this case, is merged or sold off to another entity in its home market in the future? These are routine developments in publicly listed entities overseas, and even the management of DBS cannot say what will happen in the future,” the letter said. DBS is stated to be injecting Rs 2,500 crore in its own Indian subsidiary to enhance its capital to absorb LVB. “The point to note is that the money is coming into DBS India, and not into the troubled LVB. DBS is not paying any price for the acquisition. For this piffling amount being brought into their own subsidiary, DBS is gaining access to the LVB deposits reported to be in excess of Rs 20,000 crore of Indian money,” he said. LVB is stated to have net NPAs of over 10 per cent. On an advances base of Rs 16,000 crore (as of November 20), the amount involved is around Rs 1,600 crore. On a gross NPA level of 25 per cent, the amount could be about Rs 4,000 crore. On November 17, The Reserve Bank of India imposed a moratorium on Lakshmi Vilas Bank, capping deposit withdrawals at Rs 25,000 till 16 December this year, while ordering its merger with Development Bank of Singapore (DBS). The step was taken in view of the declining financial health of the private sector lender. LVB is the third bank to be placed under moratorium since September last year after the cooperative bank PMC in 2019 and private sector lender Yes Bank this March. While Yes Bank has been revived under the guidance of SBI, the PMC resolution is still far away. Usually LVB would have lent to borrowers against a good amount of security. These could be physical assets (land and buildings etc,) financial assets (deposits, current assets and such like) and personal guarantees of promoters of borrowing entities. While the security provided may not be immediately liquid, and the process of recovery will take time, more often than not, as bankers well know, the security does result in a good amount of loan recovery. What is the RBI’s assessment in the case of LVB?, the letter said. On November 17, The Reserve Bank of India imposed a moratorium on Lakshmi Vilas Bank, capping deposit withdrawals at Rs 25,000 till 16 December this year, while ordering its merger with Development Bank of Singapore (DBS). The step was taken in view of the declining financial health of the private sector lender. LVB is the third bank to be placed under moratorium since September last year after the cooperative bank PMC in 2019 and private sector lender Yes Bank this March. While Yes bank has successfully been revived under the guidance of State Bank, the PMC resolution is still far away. If the foreign bank fails, and Indian depositors get impacted, will the RBI be involved in a rescue act of the depositors? Why should the RBI expose the Indian public to these unknown risks?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
25-11-2020||Business||More Chinese apps banned by Modi government||The Modi government  on Tuesday blocked access to 43 more Chinese mobile apps, including Alibaba Group Holding Ltd’s e-commerce app AliExpress, citing security concerns, as border tensions after the June clashes in eastern Ladakh continue to fester on trade ties. The apps, which also include a few dating ones, threaten the “sovereignty and integrity of India”, the technology ministry said in a statement. The ministry of electronics and IT has issued the order for blocking the access of these apps based on reports received from the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Center, ministry of home affairs, an official release said. “The government of India today (Tuesday) issued an order under section 69A of the Information Technology Act blocking access to 43 mobile apps. This action was taken based on the inputs regarding these apps for engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order,” the release said. Some of these apps are owned by Chinese firms, including four by retail giant, Alibaba Group. These apps include AliSuppliers Mobile App, Alibaba Workbench, AliExpress — Smarter Shopping, Better Living, Alipay Cashier, CamCard and WeDate. Although AliExpress is not a major player in the country’s e-commerce market, dominated by Flipkart and Amazon, it is popular with a section of small business as they use it to source cheap products from China. The ban is a setback to Chinese giant Alibaba, which is the biggest investor in tech firm Paytm and also backs online grocer BigBasket. Its subsidiary UC Web laid off staff in India earlier this year after New Delhi first banned 59 Chinese-origin mobile apps that included UC Web’s browser and two other products. The Chinese tech giant was also forced to put on hold its plans to invest in Indian companies following the border tensions between the two nuclear-armed countries. Under Section 69A, if a website threatens India’s defence, its sovereignty and integrity, friendly relations with foreign countries and public order, the government can ban it, after following due procedure. The detailed procedures to do so are listed under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Bloking Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009. The Centre has blocked access to several Chinese apps after the border standoff at Galwan in eastern Ladakh. In June, the Centre blocked 59 apps, all from Chinese companies such as TikTok, Shein, Clash of Kings, SHAREit under Section 69A of the IT Act. In July, it banned 47 other apps and in September it added 118 mobile apps to the list. While apps like PUBG are relooking their financial and operational structures to re-enter the country, TikTok has been scouring the globe for investors to take over its  operations in the US and India, including SoftBank and Oracle. India’s slew of app bans have also jolted the ambitions of Chinese tech titans such as Bytedance and Tencent in the South Asian country, which is trying to reduce Beijing’s influence in its burgeoning internet economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-225
