26-11-2020||Business||India’s economy recovered stronger than anticipated: Shaktikanta Das||India’s economy has recovered stronger than what was expected from the preliminary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday. However, he added it must be ensured that demand sustainability is monitored carefully  after the end of the festive season. He said there are negative risks to growth all over the world as well as India, while speaking at the annual day event of Foreign Exchange Dealers' Association of India (FEDAI). “It can be noted that the Indian economy contracted by 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of the fiscal year, and the RBI expects the economy to shrink by 9.5 per cent in FY21. However, there has been recovery after the opening up of the lockdown restrictions, especially during the festive season,” Das said. “After witnessing a sharp contraction in the economy by 23.9 per cent in Q1 and a multi-speed normalisation of activity in Q2, the Indian economy has exhibited stronger than expected pick-up in momentum of recovery,” he added. “Even as growth outlook has improved, downside risks to growth continue due to recent surge in infections in parts of Europe and also in parts of India,'' he said. “We need to be watchful about the sustainability of demand after the festivals and a possible reassessment of market expectations surrounding the vaccine,” the RBI governor said. Das guaranteed the RBI’s commitment to make sure that an orderly conduct in the markets are maintained, while saying that regulatory reforms have moved the financial markets to the next trajectory amid Covid-19. He also said that India will continue to approach capital account convertibility as a process, rather than as an event within a broad macroeconomic framework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Covid: Airlines seek support to tide over losses||The central government should change its position and support the Indian airlines and other aviation stakeholders in the face of the Covid-19 crisis, a top official of global airlines body IATA said on Wednesday. The Indian carriers have laid off employees, cut salaries and posted significant losses during the last few quarters as coronavirus-induced travel restrictions have drastically impacted the aviation sector. “The Indian government has not come forward in support of airlines and we do urge them to change that position and to assist the airlines and airports and other aviation stakeholders,” Conrad Clifford, IATA regional vice-president for the Asia Pacific region, said. “This is something we continue to encourage and urge the Indian government to do,” he said at a virtual press meet. The Indian airlines have sought an interest-free credit line of at least $1.5 billion for the sector, civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri had told the Rajya Sabha on September 16. The airlines want the government to ask banks and financial institutions to defer repayments of loans by the aviation industry by six months, the minister said. Clifford said given the increase in domestic activity in India, he hopes the Indian carriers would get back to a cash positive situation, possibly earlier than carriers that do not have a strong domestic market. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) represents around 290 airlines across the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||China denounces India's security risk ruse to ban apps||China on Wednesday frowned upon India’s repeated use of “national security” to ban Chinese apps and called for rectification of “discriminatory practices violating WTO rules’’. Responding to media queries for a Chinese reaction to India’s decision on Tuesday to ban another set of apps with links to China, the spokesperson at the Chinese Embassy here, Ji Rong, said: “We firmly oppose the Indian side’s repeated use of ‘national security’ as an excuse to prohibit some mobile applications with Chinese background.’’ The ministry of electronics & information technology (MEITY) had banned 43 mobile apps on Tuesday, taking the list of such apps banned since June to 220 as part of a series of measures New Delhi is taking as retaliation to China violating India’s territorial sovereignty. New Delhi’s contention is that it cannot be business as usual given the prevailing situation along the line of actual control in eastern Ladakh where the face-off is into its seventh month. The first set of apps were banned on June 20 when the government blocked access to 59 mobile apps, including the hugely popular TikTok – and followed it up on September 2 by banning another 118 apps. According to MEITY, the 43 apps were blocked on Tuesday on the basis of inputs received from the home ministry that they were “engaging in activities which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order’’. These inputs were provided by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre of the home ministry, MEITY said. Reacting to the specific charges made against these companies, Ji asserted that the Chinese government has always required its overseas companies to abide by international rules, operate in compliance with laws and regulations, and conform to public order and “good morals’’. Reiterating China’s stated position that the two countries should view each other as “opportunities of development rather than threats’’, the spokesperson added: “We hope the Indian side provides a fair, impartial and non-discriminatory business environment for all market players from various countries, including China, and rectify the discriminatory practices violating WTO rules’’. Stating that the ban on the apps was not a violation of the WTO rules, officials said India has not made any separate commitment on digital services at the WTO and China may find it difficult to establish a case. Also, the country could use its right to invoke security exceptions under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to justify the application ban, they said. Trade analysts said the national security concerns put India’s case on a strong wicket. However, it is debatable whether the app ban is the best way to counter China. Other apps banned in June were Shein, Clash of Kings and Shareit. In July it banned 47 other apps and in September it added another 118 mobile apps to its list of banned apps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||JSW Cement unveils unified plan for east||JSW Cement has unveiled a Rs 1,500-crore investment plan for a clutch of projects in Odisha that have direct links to the ongoing and future expansion of the company’s base in Bengal. The projects will involve crushing plants for dolomite and limestone — the basic raw material for cement — and a 1.36-million-tonne clinker plant, which in turn is going to feed the plant at Salboni, Bengal. A 1-million-tonne grinding unit apart from a 8 mega watt waste heat recovery plant are also being set up. The fresh investments will be channelised through Shiva Cement, a subsidiary of JSW Cement. Parth Jindal, managing director of JSW Cement, said the Odisha project, located in the mineral rich district of Sundergarh, will be key to the company’s plans to reach a 10- million-tonne cement capacity in the east and 25 million tonnes in India. “This is going to be a strategic unit for JSW Cement’s expansion in the east. The clinker produced here will feed the other plants in the region,” Jindal said. A part of the clinker produced will also come to Salboni, where JSW has so far invested Rs 700 crore to build a 2.4-million-tonne grinding unit. The plant serves markets in Bengal and the Northeast region. The Salboni unit is in the process of debottlenecking to 3 million tonnes. “My aim is to put up a 5.5 million tonne grinding unit at Salboni, making it one of the largest such single location plants in the country,” Jindal added. A fresh investment of Rs 350 crore will be called for. Clinker from Shiva Cement will effectively make the cement produced out of Salboni more competitive for the company. Jindal said Rs 3,600 crore would be spent to reach the target of 25 million tonnes by 2025 from the present capacity of 14 million tonnes. The clinker plant will be commissioned by the end of the next fiscal. IPO plan deferred He also informed that an initial public offering of the company is now likely to be announced two years down the line. “In 2019, the sector had degrowth, in 2020 Covid hit us. Now December 2022 is a logical timeline for us for the IPO,” he said. However, the company, which is part of the $14-billion JSW Group having a presence in steel, power and port, may raise Rs 1,000-1,500 crore from private equity funds prior to the listing and has mandated Citi Bank for the job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Bengal, Kerala agree to Centre's GST borrowing formula||Bengal and Kerala have dropped their opposition to the Centre’s borrowing option to bridge the gap in the Goods and Services Tax revenue receipts. The two states have opted for the limited borrowing option under which the Centre will borrow funds and pass them on to the states but the debt will be recognised in the balance sheets of the states. The debt will be serviced using the proceeds from the GST compensation cess collected from luxury and sin goods such as tobacco, cars and aerated drinks. The number of states that have opted for the limited borrowing formula is now 25. Three states — Punjab, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh — have not accepted the proposals yet, saying the Centre should borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore of shortfall. Union territories Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry have also decided in favour of the special window facilitated by the Centre. The finance ministry statement said the two state governments have communicated their acceptance of the scheme and will get Rs 10,197 crore through the special borrowing window. The Centre has also granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5 per cent of Kerala’s GSDP) and Rs 6,787 crore to Bengal (0.5 per cent of Bengal’s GSDP), the finance ministry said. Under the borrowing plan (Option-1), the Centre would borrow from the market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue loss caused by the  Covid-19 pandemic.
The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh-crore collection shortfall. Under the terms of the first option, besides getting the facility of a special borrowing window to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, the states are entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowing permitted by the government of India, under the stimulus package announced in May. This is over and above the special window of Rs.1.1 lakh crore. Kerala and Bengal signing up for the borrowing scheme could settle one of the most bitterly fought differences within the GST Council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Muthoot bid for IDBI MF rejected||The RBI has shot down the proposal of Muthoot Finance to acquire IDBI Bank’s mutual fund business. According to the central bank, sponsoring a mutual fund is not in consonance with the activity of an operating non-banking finance company. IDBI Bank had entered into a share purchase agreement with regard to the sale of IDBI Mutual Fund to Muthoot Finance on November 22, 2019. “The agreement was entered into by and between Muthoot Finance, IDBI Bank, IDBI Capital Markets & Securities, IDBI Asset Management and IDBI MF Trustee Company... for acquisition by Muthoot Finance of 100 per cent equity shares of IDBI Asset Management held by IDBI Bank and its nominees and IDBI Capital Markets & Securities, and 100 per cent equity shares of IDBI MF Trustee Company held by IDBI Bank and its nominees,” IDBI Bank said in a regulatory filing to the bourses on Tuesday. It added that the acquisition was subject to receipt of necessary regulatory approvals from Sebi and other regulators. “As advised by Muthoot Finance, we (IDBI Bank) would like to inform that their request for a no objection certificate was not acceded to by the RBI on the ground that the activity of sponsoring a mutual fund or owning an asset management company is not in consonance with the activity of an operating NBFC," IDBI Bank said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Lenders clear Kesoram recast plan||Kesoram Industries has received in-principle approval from its consortium of lenders to its debt recast proposal. The plan envisages retiring the loans of  the Indian lenders by taking on fresh loans from an overseas investor. The company says the swapping of debt would infuse much needed liquidity for its operations, apart from marginally reducing debt burden. The board of Kesoram will meet on Monday (November 30) to approve the fundraising plan from the overseas investor, which could be in the form of non-convertible debentures, among others. A communication to the bourse mentioned a combination of options, including zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares or equity shares. Kesoram, which has 7.25 million-tonne cement capacities in south India, is likely to raise around Rs 1,800-1,900 crore from the investor. While the identity of the overseas lender is still under wraps, the name of US-based financial powerhouse Goldman Sachs has been doing the rounds, among others. The debt swap will provide Kesoram breathing space by enhancing its working capital to operate the cement plants at a higher capacity, and make the most of the good tidings in the cement sector in India. While the Kesoram board will approve the fundraising plan, the Indian lenders will ratify the package before their  boards. The company is hoping to conclude the transaction by the end of the year when the holiday season kicks in the West. The resolution plan has been prepared under the RBI (Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions, 2019 issued by a circular on June 7, 2019. The company management has earlier guided that the medium term target would be to bring down debt to Rs 1,600 crore and then to Rs 1,300 crore. While the generation of internal accrual will be channelised for future debt repayment, there is a possibility that the promoters of the company will also pump in fresh equity in the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Markets screech to a halt after record run||Investors on Wednesday resorted to profit booking after a record run, ending the three-session winning streak of the benchmark indices. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended almost 695 points lower, with  investor wealth taking a hit of Rs 2,24,978.33 crore. However, despite the sharp fall, the sentiment remains upbeat. Market mavens are of the view that stocks will continue their upward momentum on expectations of a turnaround in the economy. The key indices have been scaling fresh highs recently on the back of better-than-expected corporate results, strong portfolio flows and encouraging Covid-19 vaccine trials. In Wednesday’s trading, while the Sensex opened in the green at 44749.73 and touched a day’s high of 44825.37, profit booking saw the gauge ending 694.92 points, or 1.56 per cent, lower at 43828.10. Consequently, the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies declined Rs 2,24,978.33 crore to stand at Rs 1,72,56,942.95 crore. On the NSE, the broader Nifty ended at 12858.40 — a fall of 196.75 points, or 1.51 per cent, after hitting an intra-day high of 13145.85. “The market rally which was led by developments on vaccine and FPI inflows came to a halt on Wednesday because of profit booking across sectors in the second half of the trading session,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
26-11-2020||Business||Cabinet approves Rs 6,000cr equity for core fund||The cabinet has approved a government equity investment of Rs 6,000 crore in NIIF Debt Platform sponsored by the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund. The sum will be invested over two financial years: 2020-21 and 2021-22. The platform is expected to contribute nearly Rs 1 lakh crore in debt to the infrastructure sector over the next five years which will act as a catalyst in attracting more investments. 
The government will invest Rs 2,000 crore in 2020-21. “In view of the unprecedented financial situation and availability of limited fiscal space due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the proposed amount may be disbursed only if there is readiness and demand for debt raising,” a government release said. Telecom FDI The cabinet has also approved a proposal involving foreign direct investment of Rs 2,480 crore by ATC Asia Pacific to purchase about 12 per cent stock of ATC Telecom, information and broadcasting  minister Prakash Javadekar said. With the approval from the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA), the cumulative FDI of ATC Asia Pacific into ATC Telecom Infrastructure (ATC India) would be Rs 5,417.2 crore. The acquisition of 12.32 per cent of the equity share capital of ATC Telecom Infrastructure by ATC Asia Pacific comes as a result of the exercise of a put option by Tata Tele Services and Tata Sons. FDI up to 100 per cent is allowed in the telecom services sector, wherein 49 per cent is under the automatic route and beyond 49 per cent through the government route, subject to compliance of licensing and security conditions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
26-11-2020||Business||Cabinet go-ahead to LVB-DBS Bank merger||The merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with the Indian subsidiary of Singapore-based DBS Bank received the Union cabinet’s approval on Wednesday, following which the RBI said the curbs on the withdrawal of money from the troubled bank would be lifted with effect from November 27 and all LVB branches would operate as DBS Bank India. With the approval, the Modi government has poured cold water on RSS-affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch’s plans to scuttle the deal on the ground of failing the Atmanirbhar Bharat test. “The 20 lakh depositors and Rs 20,000 crore deposits are fully secure. They need not worry, they need not rush. Deposits are in a stable bank. The decision will also protect the services of 4,000 employees,” I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said after the cabinet meeting. The minister said those responsible for the deteriorating financial health of LVB would be penalised. “Two more decisions have been taken: the board which has been removed, the liability will be fixed. Those who have made mistakes, will be punished. There will be improvement in overall oversight also so as not to repeat such events in future. This is one of the big efforts of cleaning up the banking system.” He said there was a need for improvement in oversight by the RBI. “The RBI should be able to comprehend the problem before it becomes unmanageable. If one can sense the lurking problems, it is easier to handle,” he said. He said the speedy amalgamation and resolution of the stressed lender was in line with the government’s efforts to clean up the banking system, while protecting the interests of depositors and the financial system. The government had on November 17 on the advice of the RBI imposed a 30-day moratorium on crisis-ridden LVB, restricting cash withdrawal to Rs 25,000 per depositor. Share delisting The 94-year old LVB will cease to exist from Friday and its shares delisted, the RBI said. All the 563 branches of LVB will function as the branches of DBS Bank India Limited from November 27, the apex bank said. The customers, including the depositors of LVB, will be able to operate their accounts as the customers of DBS Bank India. With inputs from Mumbai bureau||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-224
