27-11-2020||Business||Economy in recession but faring better than expected||India’s economy now is officially in recession after posting a second straight quarter of shrinking growth. The economy contracted 7.5 per cent in the three months to September from the same period a year earlier. This marks the first time India’s economy has tumbled into recession since quarterly records began in 1996. But there is good news concealed in the gross domestic product numbers released Friday and that is economic recovery could be in sight. The 7.5 per cent shrinkage in gross domestic product in the September quarter was a much better showing than the shrinkage of 8.6 per cent forecast by the Reserve Bank of India. (Some private economists had expected the second quarter to show negative growth of 9 per cent). The September quarter performance was also a big improvement on the brutal 23.9 contraction the economy notched in the April-to-June quarter. Analysts said the GDP figures reflected a better-than-expected pickup in economic activity after Covid restrictions were lifted. The big star was manufacturing which grew 0.6 per cent compared with analysts’ expectations that it would shrink by as much as 9 per cent. Electricity and other utilities climbed by 4.4 per cent while farm growth also fared well, posting growth of 3.4 per cent. Trade, hotels and transportation also clocked a sharp improvement during the quarter. “With a relatively stable festive season and less-than-expected economic damage so far, the economic growth recovery trajectory is likely to be accelerated," said Pankaj Pandey, ICICI Direct’s head of research. The surprisingly good numbers have come as the government sees light at the end of the Covid-19 tunnel with the expected rollout of a vaccine against the coronavirus. Also buoying sentiment is the fact that Covid cases have slid to half their peak of the nearly 100,000 a day that were being registered just over two months ago. The central bank on Thursday said that the recovery from the lockdown has been better than expected, buttressed by a good monsoon season. Net exports continued to add to GDP growth helped by more positive economic trends globally. The economy is still seen posting negative growth for the full 2020-21 financial year of around 8.7 per cent and that would be India’s worst GDP numbers in over four decades. But the projected showing would not be as bad as the 10.5 per shrinkage forecast earlier by economists after the Covid lockdown hammered India’s economy. The strength of the recovery will be tested during the next few months when pent-up consumer and festival-led demand subside. Economists are looking for the economy to possibly move into positive growth by the third quarter to December and definitely by the fourth quarter if activity continues to rally. “India is in an expansionary phase,” said Manju Yagnik, vice-chairman of the Nahar Group, a real estate developer. Phased unlocking, supported by the reduction in duties, developer offers and lower interest rates, “have led to improved business sentiment in real estate, and the positive sentiment will continue,” Yagnik said. Butanalysts are still sounding notes of caution and there is concern about the health of economic activity indicators that increased quickly during the last two months only to subsequently lose pace. CARE Ratings said the economy continues to face downward pressure from the sustained spread of the pandemic in the country. “Consumption demand and investments which are necessary to propel the economy would continue to be tepid and are unlikely to see a noteworthy improvement during the course of the year,” the ratings agency said. Analysts also say that weak government stimulus in response to the economic crisis means that there will still be a wave of bankruptcies and that unemployment will remain high, all putting pressure on any upturn. Indeed, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das also urged caution about the sustainability of demand. “Even as the growth outlook has improved, downside risks to growth continue due to recent surge in infections in advanced economies and parts of India,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
27-11-2020||Business||Centre caps surge pricing charged by cab aggregators||The government on Friday capped surge pricing charged by cab aggregators like Ola and Uber at 1.5 times of the base fare. The development assumes significance in the backdrop of a long-pending demand of citizens to cap the pricing of transport services. "The aggregator shall be permitted to charge a fare 50 per cent lower than the base fare and a maximum surge pricing of 1.5 times the base fare," said the Motor Vehicle Aggregators Guidelines, 2020 issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. This will enable and promote asset utilisation which has been the fundamental concept of transport aggregation and substantiate the dynamic pricing principle which is pertinent in ensuring asset utilisation in accordance with the market forces of demand and supply, the ministry said. The driver of a vehicle integrated with the aggregator shall receive at least 80 per cent of the fare applicable on each ride and the remaining charges for each ride shall be received by the aggregator. In states where the city taxi fare has not been determined by the state government, an amount of Rs 25/30 shall be the base fare for the purpose of fare regulation, the guidelines said. Similar fare fixation shall be done by the state government of other vehicles integrated by aggregators with the relevant state, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
27-11-2020||Business||GDP contraction of 7.5% pushes India to technical recession||While India’s economy recovered better than expected in the September quarter, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) still contracted by 7.5 per cent. The economy slumped at a rate of 23.9 per cent, making a record, in the first quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021) in view of the Covid-induced lockdown, and the growth from there has held out hopes  for further improvement on better consumer demand. The official data released on Friday has however confirmed that India has entered its first technical recession, as two consecutive quarters witnessed GDP contraction. But based on records going back to 1996, a sharp recovery held out hopes for the economy turning around before the end of the fiscal year. According to the data, the economy has picked up as a result of the country’s gradual opening up since June. Manufacturing clocked a surprise 0.6 per cent growth in July-September after it had shrunk by a massive 39 per cent in the preceding quarter. While trade and service industries faced a contraction of 15.6 per cent, the agriculture sector grew by 3.4 per cent. Public spending was down 12 per cent. The GDP contraction of 7.5 per cent in July-September compares with a growth of 4.4 per cent in the same quarter last year. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das said on Thursday that the country’s economy has recovered stronger than what was expected from the preliminary impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The improvement in the economy came ahead of next week's interest rate decision by the RBI and coincides with a drop in India's daily virus cases, which have tapered off to half of its peak of more than 97,000 infections a day in mid-September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
27-11-2020||Business||SC asks Centre to implement decision of forgoing interest on loans||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to ensure that all steps are taken for the implementation of its decision to let go of interest on eight specified categories of loans paid upto Rs 2 crore in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The eight categories of loans include MSME (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises), Education, Housing, Consumer durable, Credit card, Automobile, Personal and Consumption. The bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, observed that the Covid-19 pandemic had not only caused serious threat to health, but also had affected the economic growth of India as well as other countries. "Due to lockdown imposed by the Government of India in exercise of powers under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, there can be no denial that most of the businesses including private sector as well as public sector has been adversely affected,” it said. "For several months, a large number of industries were not allowed to function and exemptions were granted only to few of the industries to run and carry on its activities, which were found essential and necessary in the fact situation," the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah, said. “Although, gradually, due to Unlock- 1, 2 and 3, the industries and other business activities have been restored and the economy of the country is on track, although at a slow pace,” it added. The top court noted that the moratorium period granted by the Reserve Bank of India was implemented from March 3 to August 31, over six months. It further noted Solicitor General Tushar Mehta’s submission that measures taken by the Centre in exercise of jurisdiction under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to mitigate the hardships and miseries of few sectors. Senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, appearing for the petitioner, has also expressed satisfaction regarding the steps taken by the government. “We dispose of the present writ petition with directions to the respondents to ensure that all steps be taken to implement the decision... so that benefit as contemplated by the Government of India percolates to those for whom financial benefits have been envisaged and extended,” the bench said. The top court's judgement came on a PIL filed by Agra resident Gajendra Sharma seeking directions to declare the notification dated March 27, 2020 issued by Reserve Bank of India as ultra vires to the extent it charges interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on tepid note amid weak global cues||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a tepid note on Friday, tracking subdued cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 25.74 points or 0.06 per cent higher at 44,285.48. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slipped 17.60 points or 0.14 per cent to 13,004.60. NTPC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Maruti, Tech Mahindra, L&T, Asian Paints and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, PowerGrid, Reliance Industries and TCS were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 431.64 points or 0.98 per cent higher at 44,259.74, and Nifty surged 128.60 points or 1 per cent to 12,987. Foreign institutional investors remained net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 2,027.31 crore on a net basis on Thursday, according to provisional exchange data. Domestic markets do not appear to be inspiring at the moment as most of the Asian markets are trading in red, said Binod Modi, Head- Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Continued buying in BFSIs has been driving markets with robust FPIs flow for November so far. Going ahead, considering better prospects of earnings rebound in banks and favourable valuations, further buying in banking and financials cannot be ruled out," he noted. US markets were closed on Thursday due to Thanksgiving holiday. However, European stocks witnessed pressure as rising COVID-19 cases across Europe and extension of partial lockdown in Germany until December dented investor sentiment. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the positive territory. Meanwhile, Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.02 per cent higher at USD 47.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Govt conducts trial run of e-highway Yamuna Expressway||The government has conducted a trial run of the e-highway Yamuna Expressway between Delhi and Agra with MG’s ZS electric vehicle. Launched as part of the government’s mission to put more EVs on the road by 2020, the trial run was flagged off by Meenakshi Lekhi, member of Parliament and chairperson of New Delhi Municipal Corporation; Faggan Singh Kulaste, minister of state in the steel ministry; and Bipin Singh Rawat, chief of defence staff among other senior dignitaries from the government. The trial run was done to test the viability of the Yamuna Expressway as an e-corridor for public EV transit. It focused on the charging infrastructure as well as roadside assistance services along the popular tourist route. Rajeev Chaba, president and managing director, MG Motor India, said: “The ZS EV has a range of 340 kilometers on a single charge and is ideal for Delhi-Agra commutes”. We believe that charging infrastructure across India’s national highways will create the right awareness among consumers and help solve the range-related concerns.” MG Motor India has a  60 kW Agra charging station. MG had launched ZS EV in India in January 2020 and has retailed more than 1,000 units. The vehicle is now available in 21 cities across the nation including Agra starting at Rs 20.88 lakhs (ex-showroom Agra).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Faqir Chand C Kohli, father of Indian IT industry, no more||Faqir Chand C Kohli, considered as the father of Indian IT industry, passed away on Thursday. Kohli, the founding chief executive of sector leader TCS, was 96. In a statement, TCS said it mourns the death of Kohli, who died this afternoon, and added that it was J.R.D. Tata’s insistence that had got the young Kohli to join the Tata group in 1969. “He pivoted first into management consultancy, and then over the next two decades, into software development, helping the organisation navigate multiple technology waves over two-and-a-half decades by continually investing in people and staying relevant to customers,” TCS said, adding Kohli stepped down as the CEO of the business in 1996. Nasscom termed him as a “visionary leader” who foresaw an opportunity in technology for India and built TCS. “He was a true legend, who laid the foundation of India’s spectacular IT revolution and set the stage for the dynamic modern economy we enjoy today,” Tata Sons chairman and former TCS chief executive N. Chandrasekaran said. Kohli led innovations in areas far-ranging from adult literacy, water purification, software engineering, software automation, complex-systems and cybernetics, Chandrasekaran added. Wipro's founder chairman Azim Premji called Kohli as the "true pioneer" of Indian IT and added that the rest followed his footsteps. "His contribution to the IT industry and thus to India is immeasurable," he said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Cronyism in banking feared: Former World Bank chief economist||The RBI working group’s proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a ‘good-looking’ step in a ‘bad direction’ and may lead to crony capitalism and eventual financial instability, Kaushik Basu, former chief economist of the World Bank, said on Thursday. Basu said there is a good reason why all successful economies have a clear dividing line between industries and corporations on the one hand, and banks and lending organisations on the other. “The proposal from the recently set up internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India to allow Indian corporate houses to own and run banks is a good-looking step in a bad direction,” he said. Basu, who was also the chief economic adviser during the UPA period, said at first sight, this may look good because the close connection between corporations wanting to borrow and banks wanting to lend speeds up lending activity and makes the banking sector look more efficient. “But such connected lending is almost invariably a step towards crony capitalism, where a few big corporations capture the business space in the country, slowly edging out the smaller players. “Also, connected lending can lead to eventual financial instability,” he argued. Last week, the RBI group made various recommendations, including that large corporates may be permitted to promote banks only after necessary amendments to the Banking Regulation Act. “There is a lot of evidence that connected lending was the biggest cause of the build-up of bad loans in 1997 in Asia, which resulted in the East Asian Crisis that began in Thailand and turned out to be one of the biggest financial crashes in the world,” he said. India’s Banking Regulation Act, 1949, which was originally the Banking Companies Act, 1949, is a very well-crafted law, the eminent economist said adding it reflects the sophistication of the founders of modern India. Basu, however, noted that times have changed and there are reasons to amend some parts of it. “I think creating avenues for some non-banking financial companies, which are not controlled by industrial houses, into proper banks is worth considering seriously. “But the change in law that will allow industrial houses to own and run banks is a completely wrong move and a recipe for two possible outcomes — crony capitalism and financial crash,” he said. Recently, former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan and ex-Deputy Governor Viral Acharya in a joint article had said that the RBI working group's proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks is a “bombshell” and at this juncture, it is more important to stick to the tried and tested limits on involvement of business houses in the banking sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Life insurance premium eligible for reimbursement under LTC cash voucher scheme||The premium paid for insurance policies purchased between October 12, 2020 and March 31, 2021 by central government employees will be eligible for reimbursement under the LTC cash voucher scheme. Issuing the third set of FAQ, the department of expenditure under the finance ministry also clarified that for purchases of goods such as cars employees can submit self-attested photocopies of bills instead of the original bills as proof for availing themselves the benefit under the scheme. On October 12, the government announced the LTC cash voucher scheme under which employees can purchase any goods or services with a GST rate of 12 per cent or above to avail themselves the benefit. The payments for such purchases have to be made via digital mode or cheque or demand draft or NEFT/RTGS. So far, employees had only leave travel concession (LTC) benefits on travels made, or else they had to forgo the amount. The expenditure department said payment of premium for existing insurance policies would not be covered under the LTC cash voucher scheme. “However, the payment of premium for insurance policies purchased during the period between October 12, 2020, and March 31, 2021, is eligible for reimbursement under the scheme,” it said. Vouchers/ bills for availing the benefit under the scheme has to be submitted on or before March 31, 2021. On the submission of bills by employees who would superannuate before March, the expenditure department said, “vouchers/ bills should be submitted and settled before the date of superannuation”. On whether an employee would be required to submit original bills for purchase of cars as the same may be required for claiming its warranty and ownership, it said, “self-attested photocopy” would suffice. “However, the original bills may be produced on demand for information,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Future Retail shares invoked by Vistra ITCL||Vistra ITCL, an independent corporate trustee, has invoked shares amounting to 6.61 per cent stake in Future Retail Ltd (FRL), according to a regulatory filing by the company. As many as 3,58,15,889 equity shares of Future Retail pledged with Vistra have been invoked on September 10 and November 24 in capacity as a debenture trustee in order to secure the debentures issued by Future Capital Investment Pvt Ltd and Future Corporate Resources Ltd, Vistra ITCL said in a letter to BSE. A total of 6,52,32,692 shares of FRL aggregating to 12.03 per cent stake were pledged with Vistra, it added. The invocation of shares comes at a time FRL is locked in a legal battle with e-commerce giant Amazon, which received a favourable interim order from the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) last month against the Kishore Biyani-led firm’s Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. The arbitrator had barred FRL from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. Future Retail Ltd on Thursday accused Amazon of adopting a media strategy of “having every development reported and converted into a line of communication with stock exchanges” regarding the Amazon-Future Coupons' arbitration proceedings in Singapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Kapil Wadhawan files petition in the National Company Law Tribunal||Kapil Wadhawan, the erstwhile promoter of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), has filed a petition in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking access to meetings of DHFL’s committee of creditors (CoC) and data on the assets of the mortgage lender. In an appeal made to the Mumbai bench of the NCLT, Wadhawan urged the tribunal to consider the financial package for revival of DHFL prepared after the June 7 circular of the RBI. Wadhawan said in his petition that DHFL has assets of Rs 68,000 crore and the bids received for the entire company is only for Rs 31,000 crore. “The applicant is given to understand from information in the public domain that only a third of this amount is payable upfront whereas the balance amount is deferred payment, payable over several years from the accruals of DHFL itself. “Ex-facie, the upfront amount is less than the cash, real estate and investments available with DHFL and, therefore, is a complete eyewash,’’ the petition said. It alleged that the bidders are seeking with “barely any investment” to take over the company using the resources of DHFL while offering a massive haircut on the amounts due to the creditors of DHFL. He, therefore, sought the intervention of the tribunal to ensure that the interests of all stakeholders are protected. The petition urged NCLT that the resolution plan drafted by the company be submitted to an independent expert appointed by the tribunal along with the bids received from the resolution applicants and the independent expert submit a report with his opinion on the most appropriate plan. “...permit the applicant to assist the CoC to consider the bids being received for DHFL in the proper perspective and to permit the applicant to assist in the CIRP process,’’ it added. Wadhawan said pending the hearing and final disposal of his application, the tribunal should direct the administrator of DHFL to give him or his representative access to all the documents and records of DHFL, including documents like the minutes of the CoC meetings, presentations of bids made to them and revisions made by the bidders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||RBI governor points at fault lines Indian bond market||Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das has said that a lot of imperfections have crept into the Indian bond market that the regulator needs to weed out before it can emerge as a vibrant alternative fundraising port of call for big businesses and entrepreneurs. The Indian bond market, which is excessively skewed towards trading in government securities, shows a marked preference for only a “few benchmark tenors” even though the sovereign yield curve spans gilts with a maturity tenor of up to 40 years, Das said. One of the biggest problems for the Indian bond market is that it is restricted to only a few players — largely domestic financial institutions. “Markets with a small number of participants tend to become ‘closed user clubs’ with predictable behavioral attitudes,” the RBI governor said while addressing the fourth annual day of the Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI). The governor said that this conservative, herd-like market behavior manifested itself in the “predominance of ‘buy and hold’ and ‘long-only’ investors”. The interest rate derivative market has also grown but “remained limited to one product — the Overnight Indexed Swap — and to a small set of participants”, Das said. The RBI governor also flagged concerns about the manner in which the market was valuing the Indian rupee. “Domestic foreign exchange markets grew but so did the offshore markets, fragmenting the global market for the Indian rupee and impairing market efficiency,” Das said. Dollar inflows India has seen a massive inflow of dollars — a fact that the government has tom-tommed as investors’ confidence in the country’s economy and its equity and debt markets. But the RBI governor made a nuanced observation about the dollar inflows. “Speculative flows in thin markets can create distortions. In deep markets, these very flows can add liquidity and make the markets more resilient. A calibrated opening up of the economy can supplement domestic savings and help finance growth and development,” he said. The RBI governor’s comments come at a time the Narendra Modi government is trying to develop a strong bond market from which the government and companies can access debt without overstraining the resources of the banking system. According to Das, while the pace of financial market reforms has gathered momentum since the past three decades, the recent measures have centred around four major themes — liberalising financial markets and simplifying market regulation, internationalising financial markets, safeguarding the “buy side” – user protection and ensuring resilience and safety. Capital account On capital account convertibility, he said that the RBI will continue to approach this as a “process rather than an event” while taking note of the prevalent macroeconomic conditions. The RBI governor further disclosed that the country’s economy has recovered stronger than expected from the initial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. He, however, added that here is a need to be watchful of demand sustainability after the end of festivities and that there are downside risks to growth across the world and also in India. The Indian economy contracted 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of the financial year, and the RBI expects the economy to shrink 9.5 per cent in 2020-21. “After witnessing a sharp contraction in the economy 23.9 per cent in the first quarter and a multi-speed normalisation of activity in the second quarter, the Indian economy has exhibited stronger than expected pick-up in momentum of recovery,” he observed. He, however, reminded the participants that though the growth outlook has improved, downside risks to growth continue because of a recent surge in infections in parts of Europe and also in parts of India. “We need to be watchful about the sustainability of demand after the festivals and a possible reassessment of market expectations surrounding the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||RBI asks to fully write down Rs 318.20 crore of LVB Tier-II bonds||It’s not only the equity shares of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) that are being written down: there was bad news for those who had invested in the Tier II bonds of the lender as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) asked the administrator to fully write down the Rs 318.20 crore of these bonds. In a late evening regulatory filing to the stock exchanges, LVB said that the RBI has advised the need to fully write-down the Series VIII, Series IX and Series X Basel-III complaint Tier-2 Bonds before the amalgamation comes into effect from the appointed date of November 27. LVB had issued the three tranches of unsecured, non-convertible redeemable fully paid-up Basel III complaint Tier II bonds. They were issued in March 2014 for Rs 78.10 crore, in September 2015 for Rs 140.10 crore and June 2017 for Rs 100 crore. The RBI cited the information memorandum of the bonds for its decision to write off the debt instruments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-222
27-11-2020||Business||Bombay HC refuses to stay Lakshmi Vilas Bank merger||The Bombay High Court has refused to stay the hastily-crafted amalgamation scheme under which Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) is being folded into DBS Bank of India that comes into effect on Friday. Certain promoter group entities of LVB rushed to the court to seek legal redress against the RBI, the Centre and DBS Bank as the scheme effectively turns their shares in the bank into dud stock with no value. A division bench comprising Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav set December 14 as the next date for hearing on the petition. “We are refusing the interim relief sought by the petitioners to stay the amalgamation. The petitions shall be placed for hearing on December 14 when the respondents shall file their affidavits in reply,” the division bench said. The petition was filed by Kare Electronics & Development, Pranava Electronics and K.R. Pradeep. A separate petition was filed by Indiabulls Housing Finance, which holds a 4.99 per cent in LVB, and had evinced interest in taking over the troubled bank last year. An elaborate smear campaign against the promoters of Indiabulls eventually scuttled the bid. The spokesperson of the mortgage lender could not be reached for comment on the latest developments. The petitioners said they were not against the rescue plan for LVB but were upset over the fact that the RBI had completed the process without considering the shareholders’ interest. Senior advocate Darius Khambata appeared for the promoters while D. D. Madon represented Indiabulls. Under the terms of the amalgamation scheme, the entire amount of the paid-up share capital and reserves and surplus, including the balances in the shares or securities premium account of the transferor bank, has been written off. The LVB stock will stand delisted from Friday. The promoter group, which includes K.R. Pradeep and others, holds close to 6.80 per cent of LVB as of September 30. Based on the closing price of the LVB scrip in Thursday’s trading, their holding is worth around Rs 17.50 crore. However, large financial institutional investors like LIC, which holds 1.62 per cent, Aditya Birla Sun Life (1.83 per cent), Srei Infrastructure Finance (3.34 per cent), M.N. Dastur (1.89 per cent) have chosen to remain silent after the announcement. In Calcutta, Srei officials said they would not like to comment on the LVB developments. This is not the first time that the shareholders of a bank have received short shrift when it has been merged with another lender. Back in 2013 when Global Trust Bank was amalgamated with Oriental Bank of Commerce, there was no share swap for GTB shareholders even though both banks were listed. Data reveals that individual shareholders — who together held 46.73 per cent of the LVB stock as of September 30 — had been buying shares and increased their collective stake by more than 4.5 per cent since the end of June. The stock has dived from Rs 70 per share in January 2019 to Rs 25 in late June before being frozen for trading on Thursday at a nominal value of Rs 7.65 on the BSE. Some observers believe that the RBI should not have carried out a frenetic process to devise a rescue plan and ought to have invited bids from other banks for better valuation. There were bidders like Clix Capital which had submitted a non-binding bid in October proposing to invest Rs 1700 crore in LVB's equity but were spurned by the regulator. J.N. Gupta, MD of proxy advisory firm Stakeholders Empowerment Services, told The Telegraph that for a regulator, the important stakeholders are the banking system and the depositors. He, however, added that though RBI has powers under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, it has to be used rationally and judiciously. “While one could argue that the regulator should have stepped in earlier to prevent LVB’s deterioration to this level, it was left with little choice than to allow another bank to take over and protect the depositors. Retail shareholders will feel the loss of equity value, but equity investments do come with risks,” said Hetal Dalal, chief operating officer of Institutional Investor Advisory Services. “Transparency is the best medicine for efficiency. It's what sets you apart from everybody else,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
27-11-2020||Business||SC refuses to quash criminal cases against Skoda Auto Volkswagen India||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to quash the criminal cases of cheating and breach of trust  against Skoda Auto Volkswagen India Private Limited and its officials for allegedly installing “cheat devices” in its Audi and other cars sold in India to camouflage the emission of pollution beyond the permissible limits . “The power of quashing should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases. While examining a complaint, the quashing of which is sought, the court cannot embark upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR or in the complaint  … criminal proceedings ought not to be scuttled at the initial stage,” the court said. “Quashing of a complaint should rather be an exception and a rarity than an ordinary rule. … In view of what is stated above, the special leave petition is dismissed. There will be no order as to costs,” the apex court said . The bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V.Ramasubramanian passed the judgment while dismissing the automobile giant’s appeal for quashing  the criminal cases of cheating, breach of trust and other IPC sections registered against the company and its executives by one Aniljit Singh, a Noida-based customer. The Allahabad High Court had earlier declined to quash the FIR aggrieved by which the company had appealed in the apex court. Singh had filed the complaint in July this year alleging the company had cheated him in 2017 by claiming that there were no cheat devices which according to him was false as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had imposed a fine of Rs 500 cr on the company and had directed the Central Pollution Control Board(CPCB) to prosecute the company. He cited the NGT order to say that the company’s cars were emitting 5-8 times more than the permissible limits of emission. The Allahabad High Court had earlier declined to quash the FIR aggrieved by which the company had appealed in the Apex court. In the Supreme Court, the company argued that it cannot be prosecuted for any criminal offence since the NGT was already seized of the matter in connection with two civil petitions filed by some environmental activists against the alleged excess emission from the company’s Audi cars. Rejecting the argument Justice Ramasubramanian who authored the judgment noted that the proceedings before the NGT were not intended to address issues relating to alleged cheating of  individuals., etc “…we are unable to agree with the contention of the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner (Volkswagen) that the substratum of the police complaint is something that is already the subject matter of adjudication before this court in the appeals arising out of the order of the NGT. “As a matter of fact, the High Court has been fair to the petitioner, by granting protection against arrest till the filing of the report under section 173(2) of the Code (charge sheet). We do not think that the petitioner can ask for anything more,” the Apex court said while dismissing the appeal. Referring to the company’s claim that the customer Aniljit Singh had purchased only three Audi cars in 2019 and not seven as claimed in the police complaint, Justice Ramasubramanian said: The question whether the 3rd Respondent­complainant (customer) purchased 3 vehicles as revealed by the VAHAN Portal   of the Government or 7 vehicles as claimed by him in his complaint, is a question of fact which has to be established only in the course of investigation/trial. In a petition for quashing the FIR, the Court cannot go into disputed questions of fact. “The mere delay on the part of the 3rd Respondent-­complainant in lodging the complaint cannot by itself be a ground to quash the FIR. The law is too well settled on this aspect to warrant any reference to precedents. Therefore, the second ground on which the petitioner seeks to quash the FIR cannot be countenanced,” the bench said. The NGT had earlier on March 7, 2019 directed  the CPCB to consider the initiation of prosecution for the alleged excess emission and had asked the manufacturers to deposit Rs.500 crores as compensation for the   damage caused to the environment. On October 1, the Allahabad High Court had rejected the plea for quashing of the FIR but stayed the arrest of the company officials till the filing of the charge sheet and had asked them to cooperate with the investigating agency. Some of the findings and directions by the NGT Tribunal were:­ (i) That   the   manufacturers had in fact used cheat devices to suppress the laboratory tests; (ii) That NOx  emission was higher by Portable Emission Measurement System (PEMS); (iii) That Volkswagen vehicles gave much less   NOx emission under the Warm Test Cycles after recall; (iv) That the emissions measured on PEMS were higher than BS­IV limit; (v) That the manufacturers are liable to pay damages to the tune of Rs.500 crores; and (vi) That the CPCB shall consider initiation of prosecution in the light of applicable statutory regime. However, the directions of the NGT were stayed by the Apex court on May 6, 2019, while dealing with the civil appeals filed by the company. The matter on the civil side is yet to be dealt with by the Apex court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-223
