28-11-2020||Business||How to Read A ULIP Benefits Illustration||The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic has proved to be a watershed moment in the history of humanity, which has significantly changed the way our world works. Approximately 51 million people across the globe have been infected with over ~1.27 million deaths [1]. In India alone, there have been 8.5 million cases with 1.27 lakh deaths, making it the second-worst affected country after the US [1]. Moreover, with tens of thousands of new cases being diagnosed every day, no one knows how long we are going to be safe. With this uncertainty looming large, it is critical that you must do everything possible in your power to ensure no matter what happens tomorrow, your future, and that of your family, is secure. When it comes to securing your family’s financial future, life insurance is necessary for everyone, especially in times like these. However, a simple life insurance plan only provides risk cover with no returns. Therefore, there would be a payout only for the nominees of the policy if something unfortunate/untimely happens to the policyholder. For the insured persons themselves, there is only the peace of mind that their families would be taken care of even in their absence. However, what if were to tell you that there is yet another way to secure your family’s future and achieve your personal financial goals? Yes, this is true and investing in Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs) may help you achieve just that! A ULIP is a hybrid investment product that serves both the investment and insurance needs of an investor. It is a long-term financial planning instrument. And, on top of that, ULIPs provide tax-benefits under Section 80C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 subject to the provisions stated therein. Therefore, a ULIP is also an investment policy, which is market-linked and
provides the policyholder with the triple advantages of tax benefits, insurance protection and wealth generation. When you opt for a ULIP, your premium gets invested in the market in either equity, debt or a combination of equity & amp debt funds. The allocation of funds is completely dependent on the risk appetite of the investor. Moreover, some of these investment plans also provide users with the advantage of switching between funds free of cost in order to maximize their returns. There are numerous reasons why an individual can invest their savings in a ULIP policy. While the topmost among them are the triple benefits of investment, insurance and tax savings, there are many others. These include: As per the guidelines issued by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), it is mandatory for all life insurance companies to provide a ‘benefit illustration’ to new seekers of their ULIP plans. This illustration is a useful tool to understand the returns, charges and maturity as well as surrender value at various timelines and in various scenarios. Here is how to understand a ULIP benefits illustration: Policy year - It refers to your policy term, or the number of years you stay invested. Annualized premium - It is the premium that you need to pay each year. You may pay it monthly, quarterly, half yearly or annually depending on the product terms and conditions. Premium allocation charges - This is a percentage of the premium you pay i.e. the upfront charge which is deducted and remaining amount is invested in funds of choice. Mortality charges - It is the cost levied for providing risk cover during the policy term. It is charged by the insurer by way of cancellation of units under the policy. The mortality charge depends on your age, sum assured and the policy term. Policy administration charges - These charges represent the expenses other than those covered under premium allocation charges and the fund management charges and may be expressed as a percentage of sum assured or even a fixed amount. Fund management charges - These charges are levied as a percentage of the value of assets and are appropriated by adjusting the Net Asset Value and is usually done on daily basis. Fund before FMC - This term refers to the underlying value of the fund before fund management charges are deducted. Fund at the end - This term refers to the value of the fund at the end of the year, after all the charges have been deducted and growth has been accounted for. Net yield - This refers to the net returns you earn from your ULIP after considering the overall impact of all the ULIP charges. The Unit Linked Insurance Plans helps us to achieve our life goals. One gets the dual benefits of life protection and wealth creation by investing their money in the ULIP policies. To make most of your investment, you could consider ULIP plans by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance. You may choose products that offer higher premium allocation. What this means is that by investing the same amount, you could get higher returns on your money, as most of the money that you pay as premium is invested in the market to grow with time. Moreover, some ULIP plans by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance offer return of the entire mortality charges or life cover charges deducted during the policy term at the time of maturity*. This means you get more bang for your buck. One thing to consider while opting for a ULIP plan is the flexibility in terms of how easily and how often you can make a switch between different funds. Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure # ULIP offers unlimited free switches. By optimally using them depending on different market conditions, you could make the most of your returns. Because of the multi-dimensional benefits that ULIPs offer, you may consider adding them to your investment portfolio to strike a balance between your insurance and investment needs. It could serve as a one-stop solution for your family’s financial security and your long-term financial goals with added tax benefits on investment as well as maturity serving as a cherry on the top. Source: 1 https://www.worldometers.info/coronavirus/ Disclaimer: # Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited and Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure are the names of the company and the product respectively and do not in any way indicate the quality of the product and its future prospects or returns. Unlike traditional products, Bajaj Allianz Life Goal Assure is a Unit Linked Insurance Plan (ULIP). Investment in ULIPs is subject to risks associated with the capital markets. The policy holder is solely responsible for his/her decisions while investing in ULIPs. For more details on risk factors, terms and conditions please read sales brochure & policy document (available on www.bajajallianzlife.com) carefully before concluding a sale *Return of life cover charges = return of mortality charges (ROMC) which is payable on maturity, provided all due premiums have been paid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||Indian Banks’ Association wants to tag bad loans||The Indian Banks’ Association on Friday urged the Supreme Court to vacate its stay on declaring the assets of loan defaulting companies as NPAs even as the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (Credai) sought protection on the ground that 98 per cent of its members would become NPAs if the government did not come out with any relief package for the sector. A three-judge bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah after briefly hearing the arguments from stakeholders adjourned the matter to next Wednesday saying it would consider all issues raised before it. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appearing for Credai told the bench “as of September 1, 98 per cent of the industry will become NPA. These are government figures. If your Lordships’ don't protect us we will not be entitled to any relief”. Sibal made the submission while urging the court to direct the government to provide special reliefs to the real estate sector which is also badly affected on account of the pandemic. However, senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for the Indian Banks’ Association urged the bench to vacate the stay imposed by it on declaration of NPAs by banks “as banks are rendered helpless against the borrowers”. The Supreme Court had on September 4 directed that all accounts which were not declared as non-performing assets (NPA) till August 31 this year shall not be declared NPA till further orders, offering a temporary relief to stressed borrowers facing hardships because of the pandemic. Salve was of the view that if the stay is not vacated it would only make the position of banks even more precarious. “Restraining order on banks qua classifying accounts as NPA should be vacated. Banks are rendered helpless against defaulting borrowers…everyday banks are incurring losses,” Salve submitted. According to the senior counsel the various relief packages announced by the RBI and Centre had taken care of all affected sectors as such the stay should be vacated on declaration of NPAs. Senior advocate Ravindra Srivastava appearing for one of the petitioner submitted that the court is not informed about any national plan for disaster management by the Centre along with guidelines for minimum standard of relief. SolicitorGeneral Tushar Meht a urged the court to deal with the sector wise relief sought. He said the government has already placed a mechanism in place for dealing with the contingency. “Asking something to be tailor made for a certain sector may not be feasible,” Mehta said. Sibal however, pointed out that earlier Centre, RBI and the bankers’  association had said everything needs to be worked out in accordance of the contract. “This means disaster or no disaster contractual provisions will prevail…” which he said would adversely affect various sectors. As such he pleaded that the court must step in to provide reliefs to different sectors. An intervener also supported Sibal’s arguments and submitted that loan moratorium be extended upto December 31, 2020, and that common people should not be harassed by phone calls or abusive language to make payments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||Stakes rise in Birla-Lodha will war||A division bench comprising the Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court has scheduled day-long hearings on January 6-7 on a bunch of applications and petitions filed by the Birlas and the Lodhas. The bench will hear the matters throughout the day for two consecutive days to decide the pleas on merit. While Harsh Vardhan Lodha is challenging his removal from the boards of five investment companies, the Birlas have filed contempt petitions against Lodha on his continuation on the boards of listed companies such as Birla Corporation Ltd. The Birlas have also filed seven cross appeals against the single bench judgment which restrained Lodha from holding any positions within the MP Birla Group. Chief Justice Thottathil B. Radhakrishnan and Justice Shampa Sarkar had previously heard appeals filed by the Lodhas against the single bench judgment of September 18. While the division bench declined an ad interim stay on the judgment of Justice Shahidulla Munshi, it had clarified on the order. The division bench said Lodha should not hold any office in the group “on the strength of the shares referable to the estate of Priyamvada Birla”, prompting the Lodha camp to argue that it paved the way for Harsh V Lodha to continue on the boards. Thereafter, he chaired the boards of all four listed companies of the group. However, the committee of administrator pendente lite (APL Committee) did not allow Lodha to participate in the board meetings of the top-tier investment companies of the MP Birla Group. Subsequently, Lodha was also removed from the boards of these companies and his name was struck off as director by the ministry of corporate affairs, the regulator. Headed by retired Justice Mohit Shah, the APL Committee is custodian to the estate of late Priyamvada Devi Birla, who by a contentious will, bequeathed the reins of the group to late Rajendra Singh Lodha, father of Harsh, ensuing a decade-and-half long legal battle between the Lodhas and the Birlas. Shah is the chairman of all investment companies. While the single bench judgment noted that the estate is in complete control of the trusts, societies and companies of the MP Birla group, it also said that these entities are not parties before the court which is hearing the probate of the will. Birlas cited 21 reasons why the probate court erred by deciding these entities are not within its jurisdiction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||Ashok Leyland's UK arm renamed Switch Mobility Ltd ||Hinduja Group flagship company Ashok Leyland on Friday announced that Optare Group Ltd, its majority owned UK subsidiary, has been renamed Switch Mobility Ltd as part of its drive towards electrification and new mobility services. Unveiling the new logo and name,  Dheeraj Hinduja, chairman of Ashok Leyland Ltd, said: “Optare is adopting a new identity and logo as ‘Switch’, which signals our strategic ambitions in electric and green mobility. Ashok Leyland is examining various options to bring the entire EV initiatives of the company under Switch Mobility Ltd.” The global electric LCV and bus market is projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 25 per cent and will be worth $50 billion by 2030. To capture part of that market, Ashok Leyland is considering EV initiatives through Switch that could include financial participation and strategic tie-ups. Switch will build on the success of Optare in the UK, where it is a leading player in electric buses with more than 150 of them operating in its home market. After delivering 30 electric double-decker buses to Metroline in London, the company is fulfilling orders of operators such as Tower Transit, London and First York. This will create a foundation for the expansion of Switch’s operations in Europe and growth in India and other parts of the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
28-11-2020||Business||PNGRB sets uniform gas pipeline tariff structure||Oil regulator PNGRB has simplified the country’s gas pipeline tariff structure to make the fuel more affordable to  distant users and attract investment for building gas infrastructure. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) has notified regulations for a “unified” tariff structure for over a dozen pipelines that form the National Gas Grid which will lead to a 20-30 per cent rise in transportation charges paid by users near the source but a reduction for consumers in the hinterland. “The unified tariff shall be determined by the board in respect of the national gas grid system for each financial year before the start of such financial year,” it said. At present, the tariff is levied in proportion to the distance transported — the longer the distance, the higher is the charge. This resulted in consumers away from the coast paying higher charges compared with those near it. The PNGRB has now notified a two-zone tariff structure — Zone-1 will be 300km from the source of gas (gas field or LNG import terminal) and Zone-II will be beyond that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||BPCL clients will continue to get subsidy post-privatisation||LPG customers of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) will continue to get cooking gas subsidy post-privatisation of the nation’s second-biggest fuel retailers, oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday. “Subsidy on LPG is paid to consumers directly and not to any company. So, the ownership of the company that sells LPG is not of any material consequence. LPG subsidy will continue as before to BPCL consumers even after disinvestment,” Pradhan said. The government gives 12 cooking gas (LPG) cylinders of 14.2-kg each to households in a year at a subsidised rate. This subsidy is directly paid into the bank accounts of the users. The subsidy is paid in advance and consumers use this to buy LPG refills that are available only at market price from dealers of oil marketing companies — Indian Oil Corporation, BPCL and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL). The government is selling its entire 53 per cent stake along with management control in BPCL. The new owner will get 15.33 per cent of India’s oil refining capacity and 22 per cent of the fuel marketing share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||FM asks CPSEs to exceed capex target for 2020-21||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday exhorted large central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) to exceed their planned capital expenditure (capex) target for 2020-21 by March to accelerate economic growth hit by Covid-19. She held a virtual meeting with secretaries of power, mines and atomic energy along with the chairman and managing directors (CMDs) of 10 CPSEs, belonging to these ministries, an official statement said. This was the fifth in the ongoing series of meetings that the finance minister is having with various stakeholders to boost economic growth amid the pandemic. While reviewing the performance of the CPSEs, Sitharaman said the capex by CPSEs is a critical driver of economic growth and needs to be scaled up in financial years 2020-21 and 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||End of the road for Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB)||Tamil Nadu-based Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) on Friday lost its identity after its merger with the Indian subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Bank. The debt-ridden 94-year old bank’s fate was sealed with the cabinet approving the scheme of amalgamation on Wednesday. The RBI had announced November 27 as the effective date for the merger. All the branches of LVB will function as branches of DBIL with effect from November 27. LVB was asked to write off Rs 318-crore Tier-II Basel III bonds ahead of its merger with DBS Bank by the RBI on Thursday citing Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, resulting in losses to the investors of these bonds. “The RBI has set a precedence with the proposed write-off as it’s the first time a tier-II bond is being written off,” ratings agency Icra said in a report on Friday. The agency added that investors should factor in the risk in Basel-III instruments, as these instruments can be completely written off in case the bank gets into trouble.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||Fiscal deficit widens to Rs 9.53 lakh crore||The fiscal deficit widened to Rs 9.53 lakh crore, which is 119.7 per cent of the Rs 7.96-lakh-crore budgeted target, at the end of October of the current financial year. The deficit widened mainly on account of poor revenue realisation. The lockdown imposed to curb the spreading of coronavirus had significantly impacted business activities and in turn contributed to sluggish revenue realisation, according to official data released on Friday. The fiscal deficit at the end of September was about 114.8 per cent of the annual budget estimate. In the first seven months of 2019-20, the deficit was 102.4 per cent of the annual target. The fiscal defict or gap between the expenditure and revenue had breached the annual target in July this year. “The fiscal deficit is at Rs 9.53 lakh crore which would be roughly 4.8-5 per cent of GDP if it holds for the full year. We believe the deficit based on the expenditure allocations announced by the FM will double this amount taking the ratio of close to 9-9.25 per cent for the year. Hence, while tax collections can increase in proportion to growth in the next four months, it may not be possible to recoup the losses in the first 7-8 months,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. The government received Rs 7,08,300 crore — which is 31.54 per cent of the 2020-21 budget estimate of the total receipts — up to October. It comprised Rs 5,75,697 crore of tax revenue (net to the Centre), Rs 1,16,206 crore of non-tax revenue and Rs 16,397 crore of non-debt capital receipts. Non-debt capital receipts consist of recovery of loans of Rs 10,218 crore and disinvestment proceeds of Rs 6,179 crore. Aditi Nayar, principal economist at Icra, said, “The overall fiscal picture for the April-October 2020 period remains grim, although the expansion in gross tax revenues as well as capital spending in the month of October 2020 are encouraging. We expect the fiscal deficit to widen to Rs 14.5 trillion or 7.7 per cent of GDP in 2020-21 from the budgeted level of Rs 8 trillion and Rs 9.4 trillion in 2019-20 (provisional).” Total receipts in the April-October period of 2019-20 was nearly 45 per cent of the annual target. In the current financial year, Rs 2,97,174 crore was transferred to state governments as part of devolution of share of taxes by the Union government till the end of October. The amount under devolution was Rs 69,697 crore lower compared to the year-ago period. Till October of the current fiscal, total expenditure incurred by the Centre was Rs 16,61,454 crore -- which is 54.61 per cent of 2020-21 budget estimate. Out of the total amount, Rs 14,64,099 crore was on revenue account and Rs 1,97,355 crore on capital account, as per the data. Out of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 3,33,456 crore was from interest payments and Rs 1,85,400 crore on account of major subsidies. For this financial year, the government had pegged the fiscal deficit at Rs 7.96 lakh crore or 3.5 per cent of the GDP in the budget which was presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in February 2020. These figures, however, may have to be revised significantly in view of the economic disruptions created by the outbreak of the coronavirus. Fiscal deficit had soared to a seven-year high of 4.6 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2019-20, mainly due to poor revenue realisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||Core infrastructure sector contracts for eight straight month||The core infrastructure sector contracted for the eight straight month —with output falling 2.5 per cent in October —because of a slump in the production of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and steel. Production in the eight core sectors had contracted 5.5 per cent in October 2019, the commerce and industry ministry said. During April to October 2020-21, the core sector contracted by 13 per cent. “Industrial recovery is still weak and the traction seen in IIP growth lately is triggered largely by the festival demand,” said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings and Research. The core sector has a weight of 40.27 per cent in the industry index. “The non-core portion of the IIP may perform better than the core sectors in October 2020, led by the building up of stocks ahead of the festive season. Based on this, we expect the IIP to record a growth of 4-7 per cent in October 2020. “Growth in many sectors may moderate in November 2020,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist of Icra. “The combined index of eight core industries stood at 124.2 in October 2020, which declined by 2.5 (provisional) per cent compared with the index of October 2019,” the ministry said. Its cumulative growth during April to October, 2020-21, has been (-13 per cent Barring coal, electricity and cement, all sectors -- crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertiliser and steel-- recorded negative growth in September 2020. The output of crude oil, natural gas, refinery products and steel fell by 6.2 per cent, 8.6 per cent, 17 per cent and 2.7 per cent, respectively. In contrast, the coal production grew by 11.6 per cent during the month under review compared to the same period last year. The output of fertilizers, cement and electricity grew by 6.3 per cent, 2.8 per cent and 10.5 per cent, respectively, compared to October 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
28-11-2020||Business||Indian economy officially plunges into recession||The Indian economy has officially plunged into recession but the contraction in the economy at 7.5 per cent in the second quarter has been less than feared, generating expectations of a quick revival with manufacturing offering hope after reporting a small positive growth in the quarter. The gross domestic product (GDP) had contracted a record 23.9 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21 as the coronavirus lockdown pummelled economic activity. In contrast, China’s economy grew 4.9 per cent in the July-September quarter against 3.2 per cent growth in April-June. Even as manufacturing provided some succour, its  performance stretched over the first half of the fiscal from April to September remained a concern having reported a 19.4 per cent contraction in the first half. The figures of six months for the services sector especially the key construction and trade, hotels and transportation segments show the grind ahead particularly if the infections rise and states resort to lockdowns. The construction and trade segments shrank a massive 30.2 and 31.5 per cent, respectively, in the first half though the dip in the second quarter only was much lower, with construction shrinking 8.6 per cent and trade 15.6 per cent. On the demand side, government final consumption expenditure plunged 22 per cent in the second quarter, while gross fixed capital formation, which is a proxy for investment, contracted 7.35 per cent. Imports, which is another major demand indicator, have contracted 17.1 per cent in the reporting quarter. “We should be cautiously optimistic and the caution is warranted because economic impact is primarily due to the pandemic. It is difficult to predict if positive territory can be hit in the third or fourth quarter of this fiscal,” chief economic adviser K.V. Subramanian told reporters. Sreejith Balasubramanian, economist — fund management, IDFC AMC, said manufacturing growth was strong along with agriculture but services and construction growth was still negative. “Nominal core GVA (GVA excluding agriculture and public administration) is more reflective of private sector activity and it contracted 5.7 per cent on an annual basis.” Icra principal economist Aditi Nayar said she expects a stronger rebound in the second half of the fiscal. “At present, it appears GDP contraction in 2020-21 is likely to be 7-9 per cent  milder than our previous forecasts, unless rising Covid-19 infections force fresh restrictions.” Two straight quarters of GDP contraction mean India has fallen into technical recession — the first since the Centre began releasing quarterly estimates of GDP in 1996-97. 
Annual GDP has contracted on four previous occasions, the last in 1980-81. Manufacturing clocked a surprise 0.6 per cent growth in July-September after it had shrunk a massive 39 per cent in the preceding quarter. Continuing its good showing, the agriculture sector grew 3.4 per cent, while the trade and services sector showed lower-than-expected contraction at 15.6 per cent. Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist, Crisil said “the second-quarter (Q2) GDP data has lent a positive bias to our full-year call of 9 per cent contraction. However, there are some signs of flattening of economic activity in the third quarter. “ “Hence, that and further spread of Covid-19 will remain the key monitorables. The services sector will be more vulnerable in the second half, particularly contract-based services,” the Crisil chief economist said. The mining sector contracted 9.1% in Q2 compared to a contraction of 23.3% in the last quarter. Electricity and other public utilities grew 4.4% against a contraction of 7% in Q1. Construction contracted 8.6% in Q2 compared to a drop of 50.3% in Q1. Trade, hotel, transport, communication fell15.6% compared to a contraction of 47% in the previous quarter. The financial services sector contracted 8.1% compared to a contraction of 5.3% in the previous quarter. The public administration segment, supported by government spending, contracted 12.2% in Q2 versus a fall of 10.3% in Q1. Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist, Crisil said “the second-quarter (Q2) GDP data has lent a positive bias to our full-year call of 9 per cent contraction. However, there are some signs of flattening of economic activity in the third quarter. Hence, that and further spread of Covid-19 will remain the key monitorables. The services sector will be more vulnerable in the second half, particularly contract-based services.” Private consumption, reflected in private final consumption expenditure, contracted 11.3% in Q2 compared to a drop of 26.7% in Q1. Investments, as reflected by gross fixed capital formation, contracted 7.3% compared to a fall of 47.1% in Q1. Government final consumption expenditure contracted 22.2% in Q2 after growing 16.4% in Q1. “The government consumption expenditure has shrunk to an unprecedented level of (-)22.2%, indicating weak fiscal stimulus. Clearly, most of the enhanced government borrowing has gone to make up for the shortfall in tax and non-tax revenues leading to a contraction of (-)1.9% in centre’s capital expenditure and a small positive growth at 0.4% in its total expenditure upto the first seven months into the fiscal year. Growth momentum is expected to pick up in 3QFY21, turning strongly positive in 4QFY21,” D K Srivastava, Chief Policy Advisor, EY India said. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das had stated that the recovery from the lockdown has been stronger than expected and the economy could show growth in the fourth quarter. The improvement in the economy came ahead of next week's interest rate decision by the RBI and coincides with a drop in India's daily virus cases, which have tapered off to half of its peak of more than 97,000 infections a day in mid-September.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-221
