29-11-2020||Business||Deadline extended to submit life certificate by pensioners||Retirement fund body EPFO has extended the deadline for submission of life certificates by pensioners till February 28, a move which would benefit over 35 lakh persons who could not submit the document by November because of the coronavirus pandemic. The pensioners who could not submit their life certificates within the November 30 deadline would get pension every month till February. “In view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the vulnerability of elderly population to the virus, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has extended the time limit up to February 28, 2021 for submission of Jeevan Pramaan Patra in respect of pensioners drawing pension under EPS 1995 (Employees’ Pension Scheme-1995) and whose life certificate is due in any month till February 28, 2021,” a labour ministry statement said. At present, a pensioner can submit his life certificate anytime during the year up to November 30, which is valid for a period of one year from the date of issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||Business||HSBC may exit retail banking in US||HSBC Holdings Plc is considering a complete exit from retail banking in the United States after narrowing the options for how to improve performance at its struggling North America business, the Financial Times reported on Saturday. The bank’s senior management aim to present the plan to the board in the coming weeks, the FT reported, citing people familiar with the situation. HSBC declined to comment on the report. HSBC said last month it planned to reduce annual costs to below $31 billion by 2022, a more ambitious target than it set out in February and well below the operating expenses of $42.3 billion it reported in 2019. In February, it had outlined $4.5 billion in cost savings and 35,000 job cuts. The bank also said it would accelerate the transformation of its US business, where it has long struggled to compete with much bigger players.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||Business||Punjab accepts Centre's GST borrowing offer||The Punjab government has dropped its opposition to the Centre’s borrowing option to bridge the gap in the Goods and Services Tax revenue receipts and has opted for the first of the two proposals. “The number of states who have chosen this option has gone up to 26. All the three Union Territories with legislative assembly (that is, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry) have also decided in favour of option 1,” the ministry of finance said in an official release. Now Punjab will also receive funds raised through this window starting from the next round of borrowing. Under the window which has been operationalised since October 23, 2020, the Centre has already borrowed Rs 24,000 crore on behalf of the states in four instalments and passed it on to the latter. Recently, Kerala and Bengal have also opted for the first option to meet the GST revenue shortfall. Punjab will get Rs 8,359 crore through a special borrowing window and permission to raise an additional Rs 3,033 crore through borrowings. Under the terms of the first option, besides the facility of a special window for borrowings, the states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.50 per cent of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) out of the 2 per cent additional borrowing  under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan. Now there are only two states —  Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh — that are yet to accept either of the proposal. Under the borrowing plan (option 1), the Centre would borrow from the market Rs 1.10 lakh crore which is the revenue shortfall on account of GST implementation. The remaining Rs 73,000 crore shortfall is estimated to be the revenue impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second option given by the Centre was for the states to borrow the entire Rs 1.83 lakh crore collection shortfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
29-11-2020||Business||Economy: note of caution in rebound hope||The surprise resilience shown by the manufacturing sector that restricted GDP contraction to only 7.5 per cent in the September quarter could be a result of massive purge in costs such as employee cost by corporate houses and businesses, which could turn a potential headwind in the future, economists at SBI wrote on Saturday. India’s July-September (Q2 of 2020-21 fiscal) GDP growth showed surprising resilience with a contraction of only 7.5 per cent in real terms, while the market consensus was higher, Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India, wrote in Ecowrap. With the improvement in manufacturing because of the lifting of lockdown measures, GDP contraction has slowed down significantly. The agriculture sector continued to perform well with growth at 3.4 per cent. Services remained in the negative territory, although the decline was contained as trade, hotels, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting showed recovery. “The most astonishing number is the positive growth in manufacturing in Q2. Despite being the worst affected sector in Q1 (due to lockdown), it is quite puzzling how manufacturing turned itself around,” he wrote in the Ecowrap issue. “We believe one possible reason for this could be stellar corporate GVA numbers in Q2 on the back of a massive purge in costs. Further, small companies, with a turnover of up to Rs 500 crore, are more aggressive in cutting cost, displaying reduction in employee cost by 10-12 per cent,” Ecowrap said. This, it said, could turn a potential headwind in future in terms of a drag on consumption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
