30-11-2020||Business||RBI policy, global trends to drive markets in holiday-shortened week, says Analysts||Macroeconomic data, auto sales numbers and the RBI policy to be released this week would be among the driving factors for stock markets in the holiday-shortened week, say analysts. Stock markets would remain closed on Monday for 'Gurunanak Jayanti'. "Going ahead, the overall structure of the market remains positive, but intermittent profit-booking cannot be ruled out given the sharp rally in the past few weeks. Globally, investors would watch out for Joe Biden transition and developments over stimulus announcement from the new US government. "On the domestic side, the market would react to the better-than-expected September quarter GDP data. Auto companies would be in focus as November sales data would start coming from Tuesday. Banks and financial stocks would be in focus as RBI's monetary policy is scheduled on Friday," said Siddhartha Khemka, Head - Retail Research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services Ltd. India's economy recovered faster than expected in the September quarter as a pick-up in manufacturing helped GDP clock a lower contraction of 7.5 per cent and held out hopes for further improvement on consumer demand bouncing back. Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services said, "Markets are awaiting the outcome of major events like RBI policy meeting, the release of manufacturing and services PMI data which will be decisive factors this week." During the last week, the Sensex advanced 267.47 points or 0.60 per cent. "RBI's MPC meeting is scheduled this week. Markets are expected to enter a holiday mood with no major directional move in the weeks to come," said Nirali Shah, Senior Research Analyst, Samco Securities. "Markets will first react to the GDP numbers. Besides, auto sales numbers and upcoming RBI policy meet would be on their radar," Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking Ltd said. Participants would also track development related to coronavirus vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Looking back||Much has been spoken of and written on how the world, as we know it, has and will transform during and after the Covid-19 pandemic. Rebooting the economy is as much about macro considerations as it is about  reinventing businesses and people skills at the micro level. Drilling down deeper, it becomes apparent that the essence of reinvention has trickled down to all constituents of humanity, societies and individuals. As we read about the effects of the the pandemic and speak with friends and professionals across the globe, here are some interesting learnings that have come to the forefront. From fear to acceptance When Covid-19 broke out earlier this year, there was panic and fear among human beings across countries. With lockdowns simultaneously imposed in many parts of the world, life came to a standstill. But now, with time, the atmosphere of fear has slowly been replaced by a sense of acceptance. Humans have adapted to the new normal by making the necessary adjustments such as minimising physical contact and practicing social distancing even though it wasn’t a very familiar exercise. There has been more time to turn the collective attention of humans toward self-care and general well-being, with people being forced to spend fewer hours outdoors. The trends 
reflect this shift. Fitness apps, for instance, have witnessed a 40 per cent increase in the time users spent thereon. Human beings now also recognise the risk of loss and an increased perception about mortality. This awareness has prompted people to focus on self-preservation. Acceptance of this mortality risk has even been reflected in how consumers are now perceiving life insurance as a must-have. According to Irdai data, the new business premium of life insurers saw a 15 per cent year-on-year increase in August 2021. From self to sustainability The changes from this defining event has also trickled down to society at large. With societal engagements being restricted, various sections of the community adapted to the change by learning new skills and evolving on the professional as well as the personal front. Many salaried individuals have reinvented themselves as self-employed professionals owing to job redundancy. In addition to the move to self-employed status, the gig economy has also gained prominence in the employment landscape. This is because many organisations are now increasing their share of gig workers and freelancers as part of the remote working culture. In the midst of this shift, there’s also another impending change on the horizon. Society as a whole is making a transition from self-gratification and self-aggrandisement to long-term sustainability. This is reflected in how consumers are now shopping for goods. A Capgemini report revealed how 79 per cent of Indian consumers were altering their purchase preferences based on social responsibility, inclusiveness, or environmental impact. Clearly, there has been a shift in retail behaviour, with choices moving from luxury goods to need-based products and more focus on buying from businesses that make a difference.
Thus, there’s greater focus on socially impacting activities and tasks rather than mere self-gratification. Broadening horizons The changes at the societal level have also spurred transformations at the level of the individual. There is greater focus on becoming self-sufficient. Coming hand-in-hand with this shift is a greater gravitation towards knowledge acquisition and upskilling. It was heartening to see that massive open online courses (MOOCs) witnessed a huge surge earlier this year. Clearly, the average Indian consumer is ready to make the transition from familiar territories to broader horizons. This may also equip individuals to work on multiple assignments from the comfort of their homes, in the wake of the new work-from-home culture, rather than seek permanent employment through conventional channels. This could also mean that individual entrepreneurship will also rise as traditional jobs shrink. The takeaway With this three-tier transformation, it’s also essential that businesses need to reinvent themselves to keep pace with the societies they operate in and the individuals they seek to serve. I believe that a shift in perspective is the need of the hour. Businesses need to move beyond number crunching and instead focus on their higher calling — the need to make visible and lasting differences to the well-being of the consumers they serve. Businesses may also need to rethink on how they invest their profits, such as the well-being of their workforce, retraining and upskilling of employees, investments in technology to give easier and more immersive customer experiences. The road ahead will likely be paved with milestones that have the names of those brands and businesses that succeed in providing a holistic human experience to their consumers. In this regard, companies can rely on data mining to better customise and contextualise their product offerings and the messages they send out. That, I presume, may be the right place to begin this journey in the next normal. The writer is chief of operations and customer experience,Bajaj Allianz Life||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Qualcomm seeks policy push for 5G upgrade||India has a big market that needs to upgrade and set up for 5G offtake, and the government and policy makers can trigger growth of the telecom space by releasing spectrum, including 5G, in adequate quantity and at affordable prices, a senior official of Qualcomm has said. 5G would positively impact India’s telecom market, the second largest in the world and “still growing”, as increased data consumption and heightened adoption of technology due to the pandemic has prepared the market for the advent of next-generation technology, said Rajen Vagadia, VP and president, Qualcomm India and SAARC. “The case for the immediate rollout of 5G networks in India is a compelling one. It is no longer a choice, but a pre-requisite for the country’s growth and development,” Vagadia said. Role of regulator Indian regulators will have a big role to play in ensuring that 5G in India is deployed to its “full potential”. As the world’s second-largest telecom market, India holds huge promise for growth, Vagadia said. “The government and policy makers can trigger growth of the Indian telecom market by releasing spectrum, including 5G, in adequate quantity and at affordable prices,” he said in an email interview. As networks are congested, it is “prudent” to make the spectrum across all bands including mmW (millimetre wave) available for immediate deployment, he said. 5G will completely redefine mobile experiences and enable generations to benefit from it, the company said. Qualcomm, is a wireless technology innovator and fuelling the development, launch and expansion of 5G. “We are driving conversations at all levels of the ecosystem to catalyse the commercial reality of 5G in the country — from telco, education, healthcare, automotive, medicine to manufacturing,” Vagadia said. India has a big market that needs to upgrade and set up for 5G growth, he pointed out. “We expect a longer-term trial followed by circle level rollout towards the end of next year before a national rollout of services,” he said. 5G is expected to embrace and support specialised use in sectors such as manufacturing, energy, utilities, healthcare, pharmaceutical, transportation and logistics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||PSU general insurers told to improve their financial health||The finance ministry has asked public sector general insurance firms, especially National Insurance, Oriental Insurance and United India Insurance, to rationalise branches and cut down avoidable expenses to improve their financial health, sources said. Earlier this year, the Union cabinet decided to halt the merger process of three state-owned general insurance companies because of the weak financial positions of these three companies. Instead, the government approved a fund infusion of Rs 12,450 crore to meet the regulatory parameters. The finance ministry has asked these companies to cut the flab by rationalising branches and rein in other avoidable expenses such as guest house, sources said. Besides, sources said, they have been asked to expand their business through the digital medium. As part of the capital infusion exercise, the government also approved raising the authorised share capital of National Insurance Company Ltd (NICL) to Rs 7,500 crore and that of United India Insurance Company Ltd (UIICL) and Oriental Insurance Company Ltd (OICL) to Rs 5,000 crore each. The Rs 12,450-crore capital infusion approved by the cabinet in July includes Rs 2,500 crore provided to these companies in 2019-20. During this year, the government infused Rs 3,475 crore while announcing an infusion of the balance Rs 6,475 crore in one or more tranches. The government in budget 2020-21 had made a provision of Rs 6,950 crore for capital infusion in these three insurance companies in order to maintain the requisite minimum solvency ratio. Three PSU general insurers, with their large underwriting losses of Rs 14,443 crore, together have been responsible for the overall losses of over Rs 7,118 crore in 2019-20. NICL, with a combined ratio of 160.8 per cent and underwriting losses of Rs 5,759 crore, has suffered losses of Rs 4,108 crore, while Oriental Insurance and  United India Insurance have been hit with losses of Rs 1,524 crore and Rs 1,486 crore, respectively, in 2019-20. However, New India Assurance, the only exception out of the four public sector general insurers, posted a profit of Rs 1,418 crore in 2019-20. Meanwhile, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) on Friday gave in-principle approval to the merger of Bharti AXA General with ICICI Lombard. ICICI Lombard is progressing applications for the receipt of requisite approvals from other concerned regulators for the transaction, the insurance company said in a regulatory filing. Upon closing of the proposed transaction, the consolidated entity will have a market share of about 8.7 per cent on a pro forma basis in the non-life business, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Insurance start-up Plum raises $4m||Sequoia Capital India backed insurance startup Plum has raised $4.1 million in a bid to provide group health insurance to small and medium enterprises. The recent round of funding for the start-up, which was launched in March this year, is led by Sequoia Capital India and Tanglin Venture Partners. Existing investors, including Incubate Fund, also participated in the funding round. The insurer said that the amount raised would be used to expand in new markets, build distribution channels, hire talent and develop products. Since launch, the company has seen rapid growth, securing $1 million worth of insurance premium. The platform has more than 200 companies on board. The funding round is part of the fourth cohort of Sequoia Capital India’s Surge initiative where 17 start-ups collectively raised $45.35 million. The initiative provides seed capital allowing start-ups to scale up their operations. Small businesses find the process of purchasing insurance tedious and costly as they are unable to negotiate group policy pricing with a small employee base. But health insurance has gained awareness following the pandemic. “The group health insurance market in India is projected to grow to $13.4 billion by 2025 and we will see the rise of innovative insurance products. Plum hopes to provide 700 million people with employer-sponsored insurance,” said Abhishek Poddar, co-founder of Plum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Luxury properties find buyers during pandemic||A building in the heart of Alipore stood vacant after receiving a completion certificate from the civic authority for about two years. The tide turned when the builder had least bargained for a revival: buyers began to show interest just after the lockdown was eased. Six months down the line, 12 of the 20 units at the tony address stand sold, reflecting a renewed appetite for luxury properties across the world, including India, as the super-rich look for a bigger pad for their primary residences or holiday homes tucked away in the hills and around beaches. While the overall real estate sector is showing early signs of recovery, coming after two calamitous quarters of sales, the traction for the luxury segment — which was in the dumps in the aftermath of demonetisation four years ago — stands out, in part because a few expected the big-ticket properties to get going when the going gets tough. In a city such as Delhi, there is a demand for farm houses and bungalows. In Mumbai, a place known for vertical developments, high and ultra high net worth individuals are looking at bigger apartments. For Calcutta, it is a mix of both; while locations at Alipore and Ballygunge are seeing traction for bungalows, interest is being shown in standout projects on Chowringhee and EM Bypass.
Sotheby’s International Realty, which primarily focuses on luxury properties, claimed they were expecting to close more big-ticket deals this fiscal than ever before. “From June, we have done transactions worth Rs 500 crore so far and there is a pipeline for another Rs 1,000 crore for the rest of the year in Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, and holiday homes and Goa and the hills of north India,” said Ashwin Chadha, president, India, Sotheby’s International Realty. The uptick comes on the backdrop of an overall slump in real estate, especially in the affordable segment (price up to Rs 50 lakh), the choice of the middle class. India Ratings & Research in a note on November 27, says overall residential demand would decline about 40 per cent year-on-year in 2020-21, with the affordable segment being the worst hit because of the higher-than-anticipated slowdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The turmoil in the economy, however, has not deterred the HNIs to splurge on a bigger home: having spent days and weeks without stepping out has made them realise the need for extra space. Chadha says this section of buyers want to be prepared for the next black swan event, having suffered this one. “A businessman or an executive would have spent more time in office during their working life than home. The ratio completely overturned since lockdown. They realised the worth of the home,” Sanjay Jhunjhunwala, managing director of Mani Group, said. Mani has built branded residency Vivara, adjacent to JW Marriott on EM Bypass, while it is a partner in The 42, the tallest building in Calcutta, on Chowringhee overlooking Maidan. NK Realtor, a Calcutta-based realty brokerage firm, confirmed that there is an uptick in Rs 5-crore-plus properties in the city. There are about 200 such units available in that big-bulge bracket and another 100 units may hit the market in 6-8 months, it noted. “We are seeing 20-22 such units getting sold in a month now, which is the highest after demonetisation,” Biplab Kumar, vice president of NK Realtor, said. Off-the-book transactions, which are often part of a big-ticket realty deal, was dealt  a major blow when 86 per cent of the legal tender became worthless in a matter of four hours on the evening of November 8, 2016. This segment has been a slow grind since then, admitted Rahul Saraf, managing director of Forum Group, credited with the development of the iconic Atmosphere on EM Bypass, which sells upwards of Rs 10 crore. He now says luxury home is also seeing an uptrend with increased enquiries and sales. Brokers say “adjustment in price” — an euphemism for a decline in asking rates — helped in clicking deals. There has been at least a 10 per cent reduction in the price of apartments — the price for the Alipore property slashed to Rs 11,500-per-square-foot from 13,000-per-square-foot — depending on cities and locations. A new breed of buyer has also come to the market. Chadha pointed out that people who made capital gains out of selling unlisted equities find real estate a good place to save tax. “While most of the buys are for self use, an element of investment is there in this case,” he said. While it may be too early to wager if the buoyancy in the luxury market is here to stay, when the affordable segment bounces back, the pandemic may just have widened the chasm between HNIs and the middle class a little more, at least for the foreseeable future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Yamaha calls for uninterrupted supply chain||Yamaha Motor India has called for a resilient supply chain system locally which will cater to the requirements of all original equipment manufacturers (OEM). “This would require some investment, proper training and upskilling but would be beneficial to a greater extent for the entire industry,” Ravinder Singh, senior vice-president, Yamaha Motor India, told The Telegraph. Underlining the importance of an uninterrupted supply of parts from suppliers in order to sustain a seamless operation, Singh said: “Initially, when we were planning to resume our manufacturing operations in May, we came across several challenges. Availability of manpower for in-house manufacturing was one of the biggest challenges. Resuming operations of the suppliers was another challenge as many were caught in containment zones that led to a whole new difficulty in ensuring a smooth supply chain.” The company registered sales of 11,613 units in May and 29,539 units in June, which prompted the company to revise its annual domestic sales target to 5 lakh units for 2020 from 6.5 lakh units it had targeted in January 2020. In 2019, it had sold 6,24,000 units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-219
30-11-2020||Business||Pharma industry expected to grow in double digits ||Pharma companies are betting big on the prospects of the Indian market. Analysts expect the market to grow in double digits over the next few years, the fastest in the world. The industry was badly affected during the first quarter with the Covid-19 pandemic and the resulting lockdown affecting patient visits to doctors. However, with the easing of restrictions and drug firms adopting digital methods, their performance turned out to be better-than expected. This is expected to improve further during the third quarter of this fiscal. For instance, domestic sales of Lupin fell 0.7 per cent in the second quarter from a year ago because of the pandemic’s impact on demand, particularly on acute drugs. With the market now turning around, the company is looking at a growth of 6-8 per cent from the Indian market. In the last fiscal, the Indian market contributed in the range of 17 per cent to 100 per cent to the revenues of the companies. (It was 100 per cent for Abbot Laboratories). According to analysts at Bernstein, while the US market has been in the driver’s seat dictating valuations, the domestic market remains the ever-reliable vertical for most generic companies. During the next 4-5 years, it will be the largest contributor to their profitability. Bernstein said the India formulations and life sciences market is worth $73 billion: of this the formulations market, which is the tenth largest in the world in terms of value, is worth $24 billion in 2019. This is slated to grow at 11-12 per cent annually over the next four years. Bernstein said the Indian formulations market was slated to be the fastest growising across the world in the next four years. According to the brokerage, the market has a unique set of factors that make it one of the most profitable: more than 25 per cent earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and more than 20 per cent return on capital employed. Other factors include a high share of branded generics, less stringent regulations around product approval and manufacturing and free pricing in non-essential medicines, the analysts at Bernstein added. They pointed out that growth in the next 4-5 years will be driven by population growth, penetration of healthcare infrastructure and improving accessibility into smaller towns, increase in prevalence of chronic diseases, pricing growth and launches, including high-priced patented products. The forecast comes at a time Covid-19 has brought about some key changes in the industry. With companies also tapping the digital way to market drugs and communicate with doctors, companies are expected to see some savings in sales and marketing expenses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
30-11-2020||Business||Steel import duty hike wins support||A China-induced spike in iron ore prices has disrupted the steel sector, a situation made worse by the parity in the import and domestic price of steel that will necessitate a hike in import duties to protect the industry, analysts said. Steel prices in India have rallied Rs 4,000-5,000 per tonne on a monthly basis in November, with hot rolled coils rising 10 per cent to Rs 47,000 per tonne and rebars by13 per cent  Rs 44,000 per tonne. Despite these hikes, domestic hot rolled coil prices are trading at par with the landed cost of imports from Korea ($630 per tonne), raising the possibility of further import duty hikes in December,  Motilal Oswal said in a research note. Domestic price hikes in steel are being supported by higher international prices, which in turn are being driven by a sharp rise in Chinese domestic prices. China hot rolled coil and rebar prices are up 10 per cent to 11 per cent in the last two months. Iron ore exports have surged 70.3 per cent to 29.2 million tonnes (mt) in the first half of the current fiscal  compared with the corresponding period a year ago. About 92 per cent of the exports were directed towards China during this period —  the very period during which Indian and China had a violent border standoff in eastern Ladakh and when Chinese products were subject to a barrage of restrictions including the ban on apps. As much as 27 million tonnes of iron ore were shipped to China which are the highest level seen since 2011-12. “Iron ore prices have crossed $123 per tonne in September, a level last seen in 2014, amid better Chinese demand and tepid supply due to severe weather conditions and covid induced restrictions in Brazil,” rating agency Care said. However, prices are likely to retrace to lower levels in the second-half largely on the back of a ramp up of production by the miners in Brazil and Australia, Care said in its research note.
Better export realisations prompted Indian miners to export huge quantities of iron ore despite a sharp fall in domestic production. “An improvement in (domestic) steel demand post monsoons had supported the rise in prices, but the overall operating margins for 2020-21 will take a hit, leading to deterioration in the debt profile of steel players, which in turn will impact the financial sector as well,” Bal Krishna Piparaiya, senior  director, Brickwork Ratings, said The longevity of any recovery in steel now depends on whether there is consistent new demand both in India and from other countries, along with reforms introduced by the government for the steel sector, Piparaiya said. International spot iron ore (cost and freight) averaged $119.8 per tonne in October 2020 against $84.7 per tonne in April 2020 and $ 103.3 per tonne in June 2020. Higher grade iron ore export attracts 30 per cent   duty —  even after this, India miners are earning huge margins as iron ore (62 per cent ore fines) were imported into Northern China for $130.2 a tonne, the highest level seen since January 2014. Lower availability of iron ore in the domestic market has sent prices higher over the past few months. Prices of lump ore and fines (NMDC, iron content 64 per cent) have jumped almost 50-60 per cent since June 2020 to average Rs 3,404.8 per tonne for lump and Rs 3,114.8 per tonne for fines in October compared with Rs 2,256.7 and Rs 1,966.7 for lumps and fines respectively in June. Domestic iron ore prices across grades have doubled from Rs 4,000 per tonne to Rs 8,000 per tonne on an average. Contrary to rising steel prices, the raw material basket has been a mixed one. While iron ore prices are at a multi-year high, coking coal prices are at four-year low because of restrictions on Chinese steel makers from buying Australian coking coal, causing a supply glut. Iron ore production fell 50 per cent during April-July of the fiscal  compared with the corresponding period of the previous year. The mismatch in demand and supply is mainly because of a  failure to start operation of 14 mines in Odisha which were auctioned in February, Care Ratings sai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-220
