December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru sees a resurgence of live events amid strict safety measures||Although the country has been in unlock mode for a while, opening up different avenues amid safety protocols, several sectors of society didn’t jump right back into the thick of things. One such was performing arts, what with artistes, who had adapted to the online space, figuring out adaptability of venues to enforce safety measures and whether audiences were ready to come back and watch live performances. Going by the number of events in the past few days and the warm welcome by audiences, it would seem that Bengaluru’s event calendar is set to be buzzing, but with many changes. While violinist Aneesh Vidyashankar took the stage at the Bangalore International Center recently, Suchitra Krishnamoorthi brought her play to Chowdiah Memorial Hall, among others. Venues open up for artistes, but exercise cautionAkhila Srinivas, founder of Courtyard, which recently hosted choreographer Diya Naidu's performance, says that getting back into the groove was challenging. "We were not able to operate as a public venue for a long time and don't have enough staff anymore, so, conducting events is a challenge. But we wanted to stay relevant as a venue for arts and performing events, while also providing a platform for artistes, who have already been hit financially by the pandemic. It is not entirely financially viable operating with limited seating capacity, but we're okay with that," says Akhila. Restricted capacity, dynamic seating, etcV Ravichandar, Hon. Director, Bangalore International Centre (BIC), says, "While we began with online events during the lockdown, later, we progressed to having on premise performances as well, but with utmost precautions in place. For Aneesh Vidyashankar’s event, although the allowed seating was for 90 people, we capped it at 60. Temperature checks and sanitisation is mandatory, so is wearing masks at all times.” BIC has also incorporated the ‘bubble concept’ for its live events. "Within the hall, social distancing is maintained. But for couples or known groups we allowed them to be seated together, while making sure they were at a distance from the next set of people,” Ravichandar explains, adding, “At the moment, we aren't hosting singers or artistes who play wind instruments, because of the nature of their performances that reply on deep breathing. We understand that there is a risk associated with any kind of performance, but we try to minimise it as far as possible. In fact, at a recent panel discussion, instead passing a microphone around during the Q&A session, we asked audiences to send in their questions to a phone number provided by us. The questions were then relayed to the panelists." Open air events get a welcome boostMany open air events are making a comeback. Ranga Shankara has been conducting events in its foyer area for the past few weeks now and is seeing steady participation from artistes. "It's a good thing that we are now inclined towards exploring open-air performances once again, which are not only more interactive, but will also allow artistes to explore their body better. In fact, it’s actually an exciting time to simultaneously understand the digital medium and not be afraid of being wiped out. It’s about the survival of the human race that hinges on communication, creativity and empathy," says Arundhati Nag, founder of Ranga Shankara. 2021 will be similar to 2020, say organisersThe post-pandemic new normal is here to stay for a while, say organisers. "Unlike earlier on in the unlock phase, people are no longer afraid and are stepping out for more than just essentials and even engaging in recreational activities. Restrictions, though, will continue and will affect public events, especially live performances. It will take a while to get back to the old routine and the way we used to conduct live events," says Akhila. Norms followed at venues hosting live performances- Temperature checks and sanitisation are mandatory - Audiences to mask up at all times - Venues operate at 50% or less capacity - Bubble concept to maintain social distancing - No air conditioning during live performances - Pictures with artistes can be clicked, but with adequate social distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-sees-a-resurgence-of-live-events-amid-strict-safety-measures/articleshow/79495739.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Loo & behold! 70-yr-old government school gets facelift||BENGALURU: Thanks to a Bengaluru-based NGO, a 70-year-old government girls’ school in Malur is ready to welcome students to an entirely new campus. As its name suggests, One School At A Time (a registered not for profit) focuses on rebuilding one institution at a time, equipping it with classrooms, toilets, kitchen and drinking water facility. In early 2018, when OSAAT received a request from Malur Government Model Higher Primary Girls School in Kolar district, the school was in a dilapidated condition with broken floors, cracked walls and a roof on the verge of caving in. Vadiraja Bhatt, managing trustee of OSAAT, said the school caters to over 300 students from classes 1 to 8. “Girls from humble backgrounds (labourers and small farmers) from more than 10 villages up to 20km away from Malur town attend this school. Despite many private schools nearby, it has good strength because of nine teachers and extra-curricular activities,” he said. Due to leakage and weakened walls, the run-down school building was almost unusable for conducting sessions barring one classroom. The toilet was also in poor condition. “Providing a school with proper infrastructure and making it safe and hygienic will go a long way in educating every girl child in the community, leading to higher education and general well-being,” Bhatt added. A team from OSAAT visited the school on multiple occasions between March and October 2018 and their engineering team came up with a plan to construct a two-storey building with eight classrooms, two toilet blocks, an office and a staff room. They worked with the local administration and the education department to get approvals and get the old building demolished. Their fundraising team proposed the project to a few donors and two corporate donors in India and an individual from the US came forward to fund it. One of OSAAT’s largest projects, it cost around Rs 95 lakh. Bhumi puja was held in July 2019 and the building was ready in March 2020. The NGO got a few more donors in Bengaluru to chip in with furniture. Whenever schools restart, the school will open after a formal inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/loo-behold-70-yr-old-govt-school-gets-facelift/articleshow/79498853.cms||Farheen Hussain
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 18 rat snake eggs hatched artificially||BENGALURU: City-based PfA (People for Animals) Wildlife Rescue & Conservation Centre has taken care of 18 eggs of a rat snake — rescued from a private property — till they hatched. The eggs, which were handed over to the centre by BBMP early in October, were hatched artificially in batches. The hatchlings were then released into Turahalli forest, the last batch on November 25. Experts said rescue of snakes is common but rescuing and artificially incubating their eggs is rare. Sneha Salgame, assistant manager of communications, PfA, said though they have rescued over 10,000 snakes, this is only their third rescue of the reptile’s eggs in 25 years. “Of the 27,000-plus rescues we have done, a good majority are snakes. While we have been operational in wildlife rescue for over 24 years, this is probably only the third batch of rescued eggs we have incubated artificially. It is rare because snake eggs are not laid in obvious places, hence there is no need for rescuing them. However, when snakes are rescued inside a private property, the eggs are sometimes found. As it may not be safe for eggs as well as humans, we use artificial incubation in such cases,” Salgame explained. Rat snakes are non-venomous and one of the most-common varieties found in the city. They are important to keep the rodent population in check, said Salgame. Using a procedure called candling (used in embryology to study the growth and development of an embryo inside an egg), most eggs were found to be fertile with some having already developed embryos, said Salgame. Karthik Prabhu who handles rehabilitation of wildlife at PfA, said: “Artificial incubation was done, and the embryo growth and egg temperature were monitored daily. The entire procedure took nearly 30 days and the eggs hatched in three batches of eight, four and six.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/18-rat-snake-eggs-hatched-artificially/articleshow/79498857.cms||Farheen Hussain
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Will gram panchayat polls defer cabinet rejig?||BENGALURU/MYSURU: The announcement of gram panchayat polls could bring some temporary respite for chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is not only facing questions over his leadership, but is also under tremendous pressure from ministerial aspirants aiming for cabinet berths. Many BJP leaders believe the announcement of GP polls has given the CM and the BJP high command a reason to pacify cabinet aspirants, saying they will have to wait for elections to get over. Yediyurappa has, however, maintained that gram panchayat elections have nothing to do with cabinet expansion and it will happen in the next few days. “There is no connection between GP polls and cabinet expansion,” the CM said. He also brushed aside talks of panchayat polls further delaying the planned cabinet expansion. “I don’t see any correlation between the two,” he said. Yediyurappa loyalist and revenue minister R Ashoka said that those who made sacrifices for the formation of the BJP government in the state must be given ministerial berths, indicating the CM is keen on inducting the turncoats. However, party sources said there is still no clarity on the leadership issue or cabinet expansion, and something concrete will emerge only when when someone from the party brass categorically makes a statement. “We are waiting to hear from someone like Union home minister Amit Shah or BJP chief JP Nadda as the local functionaries have no clue what is brewing,” they added. In Mysuru, quoting BJP chief Nalin Kumar Kateel, Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra said the CM will complete his full term, dismissing talks of leadership change in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/will-gp-polls-defer-cabinet-rejig/articleshow/79498861.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Rajinikanth’s political entry:BJP keeps all options open||CHIKKAMAGALURU: BJP national general secretary CT Ravi, who oversees Tamil Nadu, on Monday said the party has not held any talks with film star Rajinikanth for a tie-up in the Tamil Nadu assembly polls if he launches a party. He quickly clarified that the party will keep its options open. For over a decade, Ravi said Rajinikanth’s fans have been urging him to enter politics and take up the society’s causes, but he has kept his cards close to his chest. “It’s not appropriate to speak about anything until he decides on his political future,” he added. Ravi accused the Congress of politicising the farmer’s agitation across India. “Earlier, the Congress supported the Muslim community during the anti-CAA protests. Now, it is pursuing the same cheap politics by supporting farmers,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rajinikanths-political-entrybjp-keeps-all-options-open/articleshow/79498863.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi records 108 Covid-19 deaths; 3,726 new cases take infection tally to 5.70 lakh||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 3,726 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest in 15 days, while the daily death toll crossed the 100-mark again and stood at 108. While a total of 50,670 tests for the detection of coronavirus cases were conducted the previous day, the number of RT-PCR tests surpassed that of rapid antigen ones, according to a bulletin by the Delhi health department on Monday. As many as 26645 RT-PCR tests and 24,025 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Sunday. A record 69,051 tests, including 33,147 RT-PCR ones, the highest till date, were conducted on Friday. However, the number of deaths crossed the 100-mark again and stood at 108. Delhi had reported 68 deaths on Sunday, the lowest since November 6 when the city recorded 64 fatalities. As many as 131 Covid-related deaths were recorded on November 18, the highest till date. The positivity rate was 7.35 per cent on Monday. It was 7.64 per cent on Sunday, 7.24 per cent on Saturday, the lowest since October 23; 8.51 per cent on Friday, 8.65 per cent on Thursday and 8.49 per cent on Wednesday. The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11. According to the bulletin, the total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 5,70,374 on Monday, of which 5,28,315 have recovered. The tally of active cases in Delhi was 32,885 on Monday down from 35091 on Sunday. The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi rose to 5,552 on Monday from 5,441 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-records-108-covid-19-deaths-3726-new-cases-take-infection-tally-to-5-70-lakh/articleshow/79498890.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||Govt invites Kisan Union for talks on December 1 at Vigyan Bhawan: Narendra Singh Tomar||NEW DELHI: Amid ongoing protests by farmers against the new farm laws, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday invited leaders of the farmer unions for talks on December 1. The meeting will be held at 3 PM at Vigyan Bhawan here, the minister said. "On November 13 we decided to conduct next round of talks on December 3 but Farmers continued their protest and with the Covid situation and with winters we decided that we needed to talk before December 3 and resolve the situation. That is why on December 1 at 3 pm in Vigyan Bhawan all Kisan Unions are invited who were present in the first round of meeting," Tomar told ANI here. Tomar said that farmers were under some misunderstanding regarding the newly enacted farm laws and the government is committed to have talks with the kisan unions who were present in first round of meeting with the government. "Under Modiji leadership, in the last six years, for farmer income increase many historic work was done. When the new farm amendment laws came, farmers had some myths in their mind. We conducted two sessions of meeting with Kisan Unions, the first on October 14 at at the Secretary level and on November 13 I was there with Piyush Goyal and Som Prakash and spoke to Kisan Unions," Tomar added. The farmers had rejected the Centre's 'conditional' offer to hold talks, saying that they will not accept any conditional dialogue and threatened to block entry points to the national capital. Farmers from different states have gathered at north Delhi's Burari ground while others are camping at the borders to the national capital. The agriculture minister also requested the farmers to leave the agitation and come for the talks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-invites-kisan-union-for-talks-on-december-1-at-vigyan-bhawan-narendra-singh-tomar/articleshow/79499142.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls 2020: Stage set for polling||HYDERABAD: The stage is set for polling on Tuesday in the Hyderabad civic polls which witnessed a high-decibel campaign resembling an assembly or parliamentary election with top leaders from different parties participating in the electioneering. As many as 74,44,260 voters would exercise their franchise using ballot papers to elect their representatives in the 150-ward Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), according to official data. The polling would begin at 7am and come to an end at 6pm. The total number of contesting candidates is 1,122. The Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) has made elaborate arrangements for the balloting process by deploying 48,000 (including reserve) polling personnel and 52,500 strong police force. The commission had decided to conduct the election with ballot papers after obtaining the views of major political parties, Health department in view of Covid-19 and taking into consideration various relevant issues, it said earlier. The SEC has conducted a campaign, featuring some film personalities, to motivate the electorate to vote. Observing that all arrangements, including those in view of the Covid-19 pandemic,have been made for smooth polling, state election commissioner C Parathasarathi has appealed to the voters to exercise their franchise. The run-up to the polling witnessed a high decibel and often acrimonious campaign. Buoyed by its victory in the recent bypoll to Dubbak assembly constituency, the BJP conducted a powerful campaign to win the GHMC polls. It has drafted its general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who has been its incharge for Bihar, to supervise the preparation for the poll in Hyderabad. Top leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, party president J P Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy, who is Lok Sabha member from Secunderabad, party MP and BJYM national president Tejaswi Surya participated in the campaign. The BJP highlighted the TRS' "alliance" with the AIMIM and sought votes to provide clean and transparent governance in the city. The TRS, however, denied any alliance with the AIMIM. The TRS' campaign was led by its Working President and state Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao, while party supremo and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao addressed a public meeting. The state's ruling party has deployed several state ministers and legislators for canvassing in the city. The Congress campaign was led by its state president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and Working President A Revanth Reddy and other senior leaders. Once a major force in the state, but marginalised now, the TDP sought to revive its fortunes highlighting the development witnessed in the city, including in the IT sector, during N Chandrababu Naidu's regime as Chief Minister in undivided Andhra Pradesh. The TRS and BJP leaders were engaged in a war of words attacking each other. BJP's Telangana president Bandi Sanjay Kumar found himself in a row following his comments that his party would conduct a "surgical strike" in the old city here to send away Rohingyas and Pakistanis after it wins the post of Mayor in the polls. AIMIM's Akbaruddin Owaisi in a poll campaign earned the wrath of his opponents by asking whether the 'samadhis' of former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao and TDP founder N T Rama Rao, built on the Hussain Sagar lake bank, would be removed as he questioned the eviction drive against "poor people" residing near water bodies. Counting of votes will be taken up on December 4 Watch Hyderabad: Voting for GHMC polls 2020 underway||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-2020-stage-set-for-polling/articleshow/79499198.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Mumbai look for winning momentum in East Bengal clash||Coach Sergio Lobera may be new at Mumbai City FC but not in the Indian Super League. For three seasons, he mesmerised Indian football as he laid the foundation at FC Goa. Slowly and steadily, the Spaniard is now shaping Mumbai, and having accumulated the first points with a win against FC Goa in the previous game, wants to carry on with the momentum. Lobera's Mumbai will face SC East Bengal at the GMC Athletic Stadium, Bambolim, on Tuesday. "They are new in the league but have experienced players and it is going to be a very difficult game. They are a very good team in defence and it is very difficult to find spaces in their half. We need to work very well to win the game," said Lobera. Mumbai were stunned by NorthEast United in their opening game when Ahmed Jahou picked up a red card and missed the match against FC Goa. The Moroccan's return will boost Mumbai. "We believe in our style of play. Our focus is to improve game by game and tomorrow's game for us is one opportunity more to try to implement our style of play. We need to be loyal because it is difficult to change our idea. "I'm very happy. I think you need to react in different situations, in different circumstances in the game because you prepare the match thinking in some situations maybe it is possible to change some initial plan. Last two games it happened and the reaction of the team was very good," said Lobera, who had a player sent off in his first game at Mumbai, and was then handed a numerical advantage against Goa when Redeem Tlang received a red-card. Although East Bengal suffered a 0-2 defeat in their opening game against ATK Mohun Bagan in the Kolkata derby, East Bengal have shown they are no pushovers. Their foreign players gave a good account of themselves and won plenty of admirers. Among the foreign players, the duo of Anthony Pilkington and Matti Steinmann impressed the most. It’s no surprise that coach Robbie Fowler is banking on them to deliver the goods. "The way we played, we proved we can get better and better. We are new. We have been together only for a short space of time. We move on," said Fowler. Captain Danny Fox believes the defeat against ATK Mohun Bagan was disappointing but with a game against Mumbai happening quickly, it’s a good time to right the wrong. “Very lucky to have a game so soon after a disappointing defeat. The games are coming thick and fast and we are looking to right the wrong. It’s a tough game, but it's something we are looking forward to. It can't come quick enough,” said Fox.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-look-for-winning-momentum-in-east-bengal-clash/articleshow/79499545.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 1, 2020||Goa||ISL: No win yet for FC Goa after three matches||FC Goa were left without a win after three matches as they settled for a 1-1 draw against NorthEast United FC in the Indian Super League at Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Monday. After losing to Mumbai City FC with a late penalty in their previous game, FC Goa conceded another penalty which was converted by Idryssa Sylla. Igor Angulo equalised with a fine finish before the break for his third goal in as many matches but FC Goa just couldn’t find a way past the resolute defence again. Last season’s league winners are seventh in the table with two points while NorthEast remained in second place on five points, their best start after six seasons. FC Goa coach Juan Ferrando made three changes to the starting 11. BrandonFernandes was the most creative Indian player of last season and his return from a knee injury was a major boost. Aibanbha Dohling started in defence in place of Australian James Donachie while Ferrando continued with Seriton Fernandes and Saviour Gama as wing backs. NorthEast coach Gerard Nus didn’t start with former Crystal Palace forward Kwesi Appiah and Sylla was the key man in the frontline. There was no surprise as FC Goa enjoyed more of the ball with their crisp passing. Jorge Ortiz moved swiftly on the right flank and tested goalkeeper Subhasish Roy Chowdhury and then had another powerful shot blocked by Dylan Fox. NorthEast didn’t mind as they soaked in the pressure and defended in numbers. However, they had a good chance when Brtto PM’s cross took a deflection of Edu Bedia and found Sylla. But the former Queen Park Rangers forward couldn’t keep the ball on target from close. However, Sylla made amends in the 38th minute when he won his side a penalty after going down to a challenge by Ivan Gonzalez. Sylla scored from the spot but the match referee whistled for a retake following intrusion. The striker kept his composure and got the better of goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz yet again to give NorthEast the lead. FC Goa regrouped and equalised before the break. Brandon sent in a perfect cross from the left and Angulo guided the ball with his left for a deft placement. It was Angulo’s third goal of the season after a brace in a 2-2 draw against Bengaluru FC in the first game. Nus made two changes during the break as NorthEast raised their tempo and showed attacking intent. FC Goa could simply not open the rival defence. Ferrando replaced Brandon with the fresh legs of Princeton Rebello and then introduced talented youngster Makan Chothe in place of experienced medio Lenny Rodrigues. There was frustration not only on the field but also off it as both coaches were cautioned with 10 minutes left to be played. FC Goa came close again but Alberto Noguera’s promising effort hit the upright.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-no-win-yet-for-fc-goa-after-three-matches/articleshow/79499599.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 1, 2020||India||Pray for farmers’ victory: Preachers on Gurpurab||JALANDHAR: Farmers protesting outside Delhi were mentioned in discourses at gurdwaras on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev in Punjab on Monday and people were asked to pray for the agitators. From Darbar Sahib, during the discourse which is daily telecast live from Manji Sahib and is viewed widely, Sikh preacher Bhai Pinderpal Singh asked all to pray for farmers at the protest site, so that they not just remain in high spirits but also get the strength to face oppression calmly. “Please don’t link it to any politics, our farmers — young, old and children — are sitting outside Delhi. Not only pray for their ‘charhdi kala’ (high spirits), but also get tenacity, forbearance and faith, like the Sikhs had during Guru Ka Bagh and Jaito morchas,” he said. “Please don’t take it in provocation. Pray that they get the victory and strength to face any oppression with calm,” he added. Sikhs had faced police brutalities during Guru Ka Bagh and Jaito morchas while remaining calm and this had caught international attention. In a speech, noted environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal, while taking out a nagar kirtan (religious procession) in Sultanpur Lodhi, urged the Centre to listen to farmers and address their issues. “Farming is not an easy profession and farmers need to be heard,” he said during his addresses at different places during the religious procession. The issue figured at discourses or speeches at other gurdwaras too. Addres-sing the congregation at Gurdwara Nauvin Patshahi at Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar Jalandhar, managing committee president Jagjit Singh Gaba urged devo-tees to pray for strength and well-being of protesters. He also urged protesting farmers to remain alert from mischievous elem-ents so that the protest remained peaceful. That farmers remain in high spirits and get strength during their agitation was specially mentioned during ardaas at Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Garhdiwala town in Hoshiarpur. Similar prayers were also added into the ardaas at Gurdwara Singh Sabha in Beant Nagar in Jalandhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pray-for-farmers-victory-preachers-on-gurpurab/articleshow/79500486.cms||IP Singh
December 1, 2020||India||After high-level hurdle, government reaches out, invites farmers for talks today||NEW DELHI/BHATINDA: In a fresh effort to break the deadlock with farmers’ organisations agitating against the new farm laws, the Centre has invited them for talks on Tuesday. The invitation from agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar came after consultations among senior BJP leaders over ways to reach farmers’ leaders in order to end the stalemate. Home minister Amit Shah reached out afresh to farmer leaders two days after he spoke to BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan. BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill received a call from Shah asking farm organisations to begin talks with no conditions. Burjgill said the organisations were waiting for a formal written invitation. “I had got a call from Amit Shah, who asked to come for a meeting without putting any conditions and asked me to convey this to all the farm organisations. As conditions were put before holding the meeting earlier, we had rejected it. We have now decided to attend the meeting after we get a written invitation," Burjgill said. Former Punjab minister Surjit Kumar Jyani of BJP, who facilitated the phone calls, said a fresh invitation could help end the impasse. Earlier in the day, addressing the media at Delhi’s Singhu border, farmers’ leaders refused to go back, clarified that their demands were “non-negotiable” and, responding to PM Narendra Modi's comments, said their "mann ki baat" should also be heard. Read AlsoBritish MPs, international cricketer and filmmaker criticise treatment of farmers at kisan protest in Delhi, extend supportLONDON: British Labour MPs, English international Sikh cricketer Monty Panesar and “Bend it Like Beckham” director Gurinder Chadha have taken to Twitter to extend support to Indian farmers and criticise the way the farmer protests on the Delhi border are being policed following scenes of water“We are ready for ‘aar paar ki ladai’ and won’t give up unless our demands are heard unconditionally. We will not go back and decide our future course of action by tomorrow. Farmers have been waiting for the past four days to convey their ‘mann ki baat’ and the PM should come forward to hear them," said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of BKU, Dakaunda. BJP leaders have been deliberating the issue and Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, agriculture minister Tomar meeting party president J P Nadda had met on Sunday evening with the discussion centering around how to convince farm leaders that neither mandis nor MSP were being dismantled. A BJP leader said the party could have a frank dialogue with farm unions but the matter had got politicised as the Punjab government and opposition parties were fanning the stir. BJP sources, however, made it clear that the government was not willing to roll back reforms and this was reflected in the PM’s strong advocacy of the new laws on Monday. Read AlsoFarmers' protest: Outraged, ex-sportstars announce ‘award wapsi’Four former top Indian players, including Olympians, have announced they will return their sports awards in support of the farmers’ agitation and to protest against the maltreatment meted out to protesters on way to Delhi. These players, who have decided to proceed to Delhi on December 5, said thatGurnam Singh Chaduni, a prominent farmer leader, said as many as 31 cases had been registered against protesting farmers in a bid to "suppress" their agitation. He also reiterated that the farmers would continue their protest until the Centre agreed to their demands. Farm activist Yogendra Yadav said mass protests at various borders of Delhi had exposed the Modi government’s “lies”. Home secretary Ajay Bhala had written to some 30-odd organisations following Shah's statement on Saturday that discussions could begin once the agitating farmers got off the highways and reached the Burari ground in Delhi. Farm organisations had rejected this "conditional" offer though the Centre had said arrangements for food and basic amenities had been arranged at Burari. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) is looking to involve civil society organisations in the agitation and insisted that the demand for a rollback of the laws and a legislation guaranteeing minimum support price were “non-negotiable”. The Punjab farm unions have so far not even consented for the scheduled meeting of December 3 with Tomar. After rejecting the “conditional” talk offer, farmers are camped on the Singhu border. “We have, so far, not received any communication from any ministry or minister after we rejected the ‘conditional’ talks offer,” said Darshan Pal, Punjab president, Krantikari Kisan Union, one of the 32 groups called by the government for talks. Asked about the proposed meeting on December 3, he told TOI that Punjab’s farmers’ unions had not responded to it. “We will continue our protests till the government meets our all demands,” Pal said. Watch Government reaches out to farmers, invites them for talks today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-high-level-hurdle-government-reaches-out-invites-farmers-for-talks-today/articleshow/79500551.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||BJP faces ally pressure in Haryana, Rajasthan over farmers' protest||CHANDIGARH/JAIPUR: Amid a groundswell of support for farmers agitating against the new farm laws, an independent MLA backing the BJP-JJP coalition in Haryana on Monday quit a key post while an NDA ally in Rajasthan issued an ultimatum to either hear out the protesters or be prepared to part ways. Dadri MLA Sombir Singh Sangwan, whose khap was among those that had pledged to join the protesting farmers on Sunday, stepped down as chairman of the Haryana Pashudhan Board barely a month after getting the post. He was among a clutch of MLAs and other BJP-JJP functionaries appointed as heads of boards and corporations ahead of the byelection to the Baroda seat. "During the meeting of Sarv Khap panchayat, it was decided that each khap would mobilise people for the agitation. I have put in my papers as the chairman of Haryana Pashudhan Board, an office of profit, to express solidarity with the farmers. We will join the agitation on Tuesday," Sangwan said. Read Also'Delhi chalo' protest: Farmer unions call meeting to decide on Centre's offer to hold talksProtesting farmers have called a meeting later in the day to take a decision on the Centre's offer to hold talks as they continue their agitation at Delhi border points against the government's new agri laws. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday had invited leaders of farmer unionsHe declined to comment on whether that meant withdrawing support to the Manohar Lal Khattar government in the state. "You should have heard the statement I gave in the assembly. I had categorically said that in the interest of the farmers, all confusion related to the three agriculture bills should be cleared. Why the fuss if there was no confusion?" Farmers' protest: Live updatesIn Jaipur, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) MP Hanuman Beniwal said his party would have to reconsider its support to NDA at the Centre if Union home minister Amit Shah didn't listen to the protesting farmers camping on the Delhi borders. "Farmers and soldiers are RLP’s strength," Beniwal, the Lok Sabha MP from Nagaur, said in a letter to Shah. He had spoken in favour of the protesting farmers last week, too, but this is the first time RLP has threatened to withdraw support to NDA. The party has one MP and three MLAs in Rajasthan. Read AlsoAfter high-level hurdle, government reaches out, invites farmers for talks todayIn a fresh effort to break the deadlock with farmers’ organisations agitating against the new farm laws, the Centre has invited them for talks on Tuesday. The invitation from agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar came after consultations among senior BJP leaders over ways to reach farmers’In a tweet, Olympian-turned-professional boxer Vijender Singh had urged Beniwal to support the protesting farmers. RLP distancing itself from NDA may not impact its equations in Parliament, but could open a front for the Congress government in Rajasthan to get the party on its side. Prior to the RLP-BJP alliance for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Gehlot had offered a ministry berth to Beniwal, who was then an MLA. Watch Farmers agitation: Govt offers to hold talks at 3pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-faces-ally-pressure-in-haryana-rajasthan-over-farmers-protest/articleshow/79500613.cms||Manvir Saini
December 1, 2020||India||India’s Covid count in November lowest in 4 months, number of deaths least since June||India recorded 12.8 lakh new Covid-19 cases in November, the lowest count in four months, while deaths from the virus were the least in five months since June. The Covid death toll in the country fell sharply in November, with 15,494 fatalities recorded in the month, down from 23,472 in October. The November toll was the lowest since 11,988 deaths reported in the country in June, as per data collated from state governments. Covid cases dropped by 32% in November compared with the previous month, when some 18.8 lakh fresh infections were recorded. This was the second straight month of falling Covid cases after the country had registered a peak of 26.2 lakh cases in September. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Likewise, the death toll too has been dropping since September, when 33,255 people succumbed to the virus in government records. Meanwhile, in the week gone by, Maharashtra again emerged as the state logging the highest number of fresh Covid cases. Maharashtra recorded 39,851 new cases during the week (November 22-29), nearly 7,000 more than the number in the previous week. It was after six weeks that the state again reported the highest count of weekly cases in India. Delhi recorded the second highest tally of 36,785 cases, although the number had dropped sharply from 44,458 in the previous week. The capital thus recorded 6,885 less cases in the week, as compared to the previous one, logging the sharpest fall in cases among states during the week. Read AlsoCovid-19: Delhi government cuts RT-PCR test rate by a third to Rs 800Delhi government reduced the rate of an RT-PCR test from Rs 2,400 to Rs 800 from Monday evening.Apart from Maharashtra, weekly cases rose sharply in Rajasthan (+3,331), MP (+2,584), Punjab (+2,504), Gujarat (+1,764) and Himachal Pradesh (+1,062), giving an indication of the latest corona hotspots in the country. However, several of these states had started recording a drop in numbers towards the end of the week. After Delhi, the steepest fall in fresh cases was observed in Andhra Pradesh, where the week's count was 2,732 less than the number recorded in the previous week. The count also fell significantly in Haryana (-2,204), Kerala (-1,605), Tamil Nadu (-1,294) and Odisha (-956). On Monday, India recorded 31,249 fresh infections and 486 fatalities from the virus. The sharp drop in cases from the previous, when the count was 39,192 can be attributed to lower testing and staff shortages over the weekend. Cases invariably register a drop every Monday for the same reasons. The death toll, however, rose from the previous day's number of 445. Watch Covid-19: India’s coronavirus count in November lowest in 4 months||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-count-in-november-lowest-in-4-months-number-of-deaths-least-since-june/articleshow/79500639.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 1, 2020||India||After drop during lockdown, road deaths up in July-Sept quarter||NEW DELHI: After registering a sharp decline in road fatalities during the total lockdown period (March 24 to May 31), road deaths increased in the July-September quarter as vehicular traffic went up with the lifting of lockdown norms. The data provided by states to the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety for the last quarter show that during these three months 33,281 persons were killed in road crashes, which was only 4.3% less than the lives lost on roads during the corresponding period last year. However, the total reduction in road deaths during this year till September is 22% (24,900 less deaths), primarily because of the total lockdown when limited numbers of vehicles were allowed on the roads and economic activities too had declined. During the total lockdown period fatalities had reduced by 62%. According to the data from states, road crashes claimed 1.14 lakh lives from January to September end in 2019 compared to 89,500 during the same period during this year. The data show that the road traffic deaths between July and September this year were in absolute numbers down 1,500 from the corresponding period in 2019. This is worse than what the first three months' data (January to March 2020) had indicated when the country saw 8% (3,089) reduction in such deaths. Road safety expert and head of College of Traffic Management, Rohit Baluja said studies being conducted by the institute in Delhi and a major national highway show that traffic violations have almost doubled in recent months. “There is an urgency among commuters to reach quickly and there is also a fear of Covid among them. Second, the focus of traffic policing has shifted from catching traffic rule violators to those who are not wearing face masks. There is a significant increase in the number of two-wheelers on the road as more people are now going for private mode of transport. The indiscipline by motorised two-wheeler drivers is more and all these contribute to unsafe roads,” he added. Government sources said enforcement agencies face a challenge in focusing on traffic violations to reduce road deaths. “It seems the overall reduction of road fatalities in 2020 barring the lockdown period would be close to 5% unless the agencies step up their vigil and action,” said an official. Meanwhile, in a positive development the government has notified ban on non-BIS certified two-wheeler helmets from June 1 next year. “This is a crucial decision when we are going to see an increased share of two-wheelers. But what is needed more is enforcement to ensure that every person not wearing a helmet on two-wheelers is caught and penalised,” said K K Kapila, former chief of Geneva-based International Road Federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-drop-during-lockdown-road-deaths-up-in-july-sept-quarter/articleshow/79500660.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: Fresh cases down but share of rural, semi-urban areas up sharply||Compared to the second week of September, when the daily average of fresh Covid-19 cases in India had crossed the 90,000 mark, there has been a significant drop to a little over 40,000 daily cases. However, an analysis of district-wise data shows that of the 632 for which time series data is available, 284, or about 45%, saw an increase in cases in the last week as compared to a month earlier. The aggregate data at the national level doesn’t capture this trend because a majority of districts that have shown an increase in cases recently are in the rural parts of the country with much smaller bases of case numbers as compared to the large cities, which were India’s Covid epicentres in the beginning of the outbreak. The slowing down of large cities like Chennai, Bengaluru and Pune is more than offsetting the increase in districts with much fewer cases. Initially, the pandemic was concentrated in urban areas. On April 26, the date since which district-wise data is available in covid19india.org, urban districts contributed over three-fourths (76.8%) of the cases while the combined share of rural and semi-rural districts was just a little over 20%. On Nov 29, the share of urban districts (52%) is nearly equal to the combined share of rural and semi-urban districts (45%). The classification of districts as urban, semi-urban and rural has been done here using 2011 census data. Districts classified as urban are those that reported more than 40% of their population as urban at the time. Semi-urban districts are those that had between 25% and 40% of their population in urban areas. Districts that reported less than 25% urban population have been classified as rural. Of course, the current proportion of the urban population in all of them is likely to have moved up since 2011. District level data is not available for Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim and Telangana and hence these states are excluded from the analysis. Also, there are 56 districts created after the 2011 census, for which the urban-rural population split was not available. Although many of these districts seem to be in the rural areas, they are separately accounted for in this analysis as “unclassified”. An analysis of districts according to confirmed cases shows that there are 32 that have reported over 50,000 cases of which 19 (59%) added less than 10% of their total cases in November. On the other hand, the majority of the districts of the country now fall in the category of 1,000-10,000 confirmed cases of which 60% added more than 10% cases in November. The small additions at present seem to get counterbalanced by big reductions in larger cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-fresh-cases-down-but-share-of-rural-semi-urban-areas-up-sharply/articleshow/79500715.cms||Atul Thakur
December 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: Identify vaccinators’ pool, Centre instructs states||NEW DELHI: The Centre has asked states to identify a pool of potential vaccinators and update their details on the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Covin) to support the Covid-19 vaccination drive. In a letter to states, the health ministry said that MBBS and BDS doctors, nurses, ANMs, pharmacists as well as MBBS and BDS interns can be considered potential vaccinators if they have experience in administering injections. Besides, retired personnel can also be considered for the job. On Sunday, TOI had reported that the government was preparing a list of vaccinators to administer Covid-19 vaccines. While there are around 70,000 vaccinators in the public sector, the private sector is likely to contribute around 30,000 more for inoculating people once a vaccine against SARS-COV2 is approved in the country. “You are kindly requested to direct the officials concerned to ensure identification of the mentioned potential vaccinators in the database of healthcare workers being created for upload on Covin software. Appropriate training of potential vaccinators will be carried out before utilising them for Covid-19 vaccination drives,” additional secretary in the health ministry Vandana Gurnani said in the letter. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 had recently reached out to Ficci, CII and some large hospital chains asking for estimates on availability of vaccinators who could be dedicated for Covid-19 immunisation. The government plans to use the digital iGOT platform to train new vaccinators. iGOT or Integrated Government Online Training portal is a platform for capacity building of frontline workers to handle the pandemic efficiently. The portal has added many new courses since the beginning of the pandemic to cater to the new human resource demand in healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-identify-vaccinators-pool-centre-instructs-states/articleshow/79501088.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: SII’s threat to sue vaccine volunteer alarms scientists||Bioethicists and several scientists have expressed shock at the Serum Institute threatening to file for damages against a trial volunteer who went public about a severe adverse event (SAE) he suffered while he was part of the Covid vaccine trial. They warned that this could lead to people hesitating to volunteer for trials in future and dent trust in any vaccine that eventually gets approved. They were almost unanimous in stating that the trial should have been halted and the matter made public when the adverse event happened in October. Meanwhile, all the authorities involved, including the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), a co-sponsor of the trial, the Drugs Controller General of India and the health ministry have been conspicuously silent. “This is the first time I have ever heard of a sponsor threatening a trial participant for raising the issue of any injury the person suffered. One and a half months after the severe adverse event, the company says the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation has been informed. But all this time it was kept under wraps. None of it might have come out if the volunteer had not gone public,” pointed out Dr Amar Jesani, editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics. He added that this was “nothing but bullying of the participant” and that the firm should be forced to withdraw any notice issued against the volunteer. “The company filing against the volunteer goes into adversarial territory, which is not the right thing. If an adverse event happens, there is the belief that the sponsors and the trial site will take care of me. Maybe there is no causality, but equally important is the issue of trust that you will be protected from any adverse event. To counter attack a trial participant, sue them for defamation etc, is not something that a trial sponsor should be indulging in. That also raises questions about the other co-sponsors like ICMR and what their take on this is,” said Dr Anant Bhan, former president of the International Association of Bioethics. “The trial should have been halted the next day after the adverse event was reported. And within a week it could have been investigated. That would have instilled confidence and trust in the minds of people. Stonewalling, refusing to answer, waiting for a lawsuit to bring things out, it speaks volumes about the lack of professionalism in managing a vaccine trial,” said Dr Jacob John, a well known virologist. “Why did the trial participant spill the beans one and a half months later? Because they are more concerned with the public interest, safety of the public, about other people getting the vaccine. Because all other parties failed to give seriousness to the occurrence of the adverse event. If the volunteer had said I fell ill, nobody would have taken notice. If no compensation of Rs five crore had been asked for, nobody would have probably paid any attention to it. How else could he have achieved a public debate?” asked Dr John. The All India Drug Action Network issued a statement expressing shock at the “blatant attempt at intimidation of a clinical trial participant by Serum Institute”. “Given that the SAE took place in October, it is of serious concern that the CDSCO did not pause the trial to investigate the SAE when it was reported,” said the statement, accusing SII of trying to divert attention from scrutiny of its trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-siis-threat-to-sue-vaccine-volunteer-alarms-scientists/articleshow/79501112.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi seeks suggestions on vaccine regulatory processes||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asked pharma companies developing vaccines against Covid-19 to come up with suggestions on regulatory processes and make efforts to create awareness among people about the vaccine and its efficacy. The PM’s comments came during a virtual meeting with teams from three biopharmaceutical companies which have vaccine candidates at different stages of trials. The firms are Dr Reddy’s Labs, Gennova Biopharma and Biological E. During the meeting, Modi said the firms should make efforts to inform people in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy, the government said. Matters relating to logistics, transport, cold chain etc. in delivering the vaccines were also discussed. This was Modi’s second interaction with teams working to develop a Covid-19 vaccine. On Saturday, he had visited Zydus Cadila’s vaccine development facility near Ahmedabad, Bharat Biotech’s facility at Genome Valley near Hyderabad and Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune to review the vaccine development process. SII, which is the manufacturing partner for Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine candidate, is conducting Phase 3 trials in India and has said it will apply for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine in the next two weeks. Bharat Biotech has also started phase 3 trials for its vaccine candidate in India, whereas Zydus Cadila is likely to enter phase 3 trials soon. While Dr Reddy’s Labs is conducting Phase 2/3 clinical trials in India for the vaccine candidate developed by Russia, both Gennova and Biological E have locally developed candidates at early stages of trials and detailed data and results are expected early next year. Modi also appreciated the effort put in by scientists to come up with a vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-pm-modi-seeks-suggestions-on-vaccine-regulatory-processes/articleshow/79501174.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||In a first, Bata gets an India CEO to ‘shoe the world’||MUMBAI: For the first time in Bata’s 126-year history, an Indian will lead the firm to ‘shoe the world’. Sandeep Kataria, 49, who is currently Bata India’s CEO, has been elevated as global CEO of the company, as the current incumbent, Alexis Nasard, moves on. Kataria is in distinguished company. Other Indians at the helm of global organisations include Satya Nadella of Microsoft, Sundar Pichai of Alphabet, Ajay Banga of Mastercard, Arvind Krishna of IBM, Laxman Narasimhan of Reckitt Benckiser, Ivan Menezes of Diageo and Vasant Narasimhan of Novartis. Kataria takes charge as global CEO with immediate effect as Nasard, who is stepping down after almost five years in the role, is reportedly set to join Kantar. An engineer from IIT-Delhi and a gold medallist of the 1993 PGDBM batch at XLRI, Kataria has 24 years of work experience at Unilever, Yum Brands and Vodafone in India and Europe. Kataria joined Bata India as CEO in 2017. India is the top market for the Switzerland-headquartered footwear major. Under Kataria’s leadership, Bata India doubled its profits driven by a double-digit topline growth, and ran campaigns like ‘Surprisingly Bata’, to revamp the brand’s image and project it as contemporary, targeted at younger consumers. Bata India posted a net profit of Rs 327 crore on revenues of Rs 3,053 crore in 2019-20. Bata India chairman Ashwani Windlass, said: “Over the past few years, the India team has delivered exceptional growth in footwear volumes, revenues and profits, and has strengthened Bata’s customer measures in a highly competitive footwear market. The Bata Group and Bata India both stand to benefit greatly from Sandeep’s extensive experience.” Read Also‘India’s Bata lessons for stronger global footing’NEW DELHI: Sandeep Kataria, the first Indian to be appointed the global CEO of shoe giant Bata, tells TOI about his experiences in India and future challenges. Does Bata have sufficient brand pull despite the presence of a host of foreign brands? ‘Shoe the World’ — This is theIn a statement, Kataria, said: “I am honoured to accept this new appointment and excited by the journey ahead of us. Bata is a brand with an enviable reputation for high quality, affordable footwear. I have been privileged to be part of Bata’s success in India and I look forward to building further on our proud, 120-year history as shoemakers to the world. While 2020 has presented unique challenges, the appeal of our brands and the passion of our people provide every reason for confidence regarding our prospects in the years ahead.” Founded in 1894 by Tomas Bata, a Czech entrepreneur, often touted to be the Henry Ford of the footwear industry, Bata is one of the world’s leading shoemakers, designing stylish footwear at fairly affordable prices. A family-owned business, Bata sells more than 180 million pairs of shoes annually in 5,800 stores and produces locally in 22 Bata-owned manufacturing facilities across five continents. Bata operates in more than 70 countries and has 35,000 employees. For Indian consumers, the brand occupies a unique place with a Bata store in every corner of the country. Probably the only footwear brand that offers products for the entire family, Bata is the largest footwear retailer, selling about 50 million pairs every year and serves 120,000-plus customers every day. Its brands like Hush Puppies, Power, Marie Claire and Scholl are household names. Bata India is the largest footwear retailer in India, offering footwear, accessories and bags across brands such as Bata, Hush Puppies, Naturalizer, Power, Marie Claire, Weinbrenner, North Star, Scholl, Bata Comfit and Bubblegummers, to name a few. It retails in more than 1,550 Bata-owned and franchisee stores on bata.in, on e-commerce marketplaces and in thousands of multi-brand footwear dealer stores pan-India. To make its products accessible to millions of Indians, Bata has evolved its channels and recently launched new channels such as Bata Chat Shop, Bata Home Delivery and Bata Store-on-wheels for neighbourhood communities. According to an Axis report dated July this year, India is the second largest global producer of footwear after China, accounting for 10% of the annual global production of 22 billion pairs. The Indian footwear market is estimated at Rs 600 billion as of FY2020 and expected to reach around Rs 720 billion by FY23. India’s consumption of footwear is the third largest after China and the US at 2.2 billion pairs, recording a healthy growth over the last decade. At present, 90% of footwear produced in the country is consumed by the domestic market with little share owing to export. Despite being the second-largest footwear consumer globally, India’s per capita footwear consumption remains one of the lowest among peers. In recent months, rising to the challenge posed by Covid-19, Bata India converted its Batanagar factory in India to make face masks. It distributed more than 12,000 face masks. Watch In a first, Bata names Indian as global CEO||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-first-bata-gets-an-india-ceo-to-shoe-the-world/articleshow/79501200.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||Hare Krishna on lips, TMC rebel hits Nandigram||NANDIGRAM: Rebel Trinamool Congress member Suvendu Adhikari was in a new avatar when he revisited Nandigram on Monday to inaugurate ‘Ras Utsav’, coming just 20 days after his Nandigram Diwas rally here. With ‘Hare Krishna’ on his lips, the rebel leader didn’t forget to mention that he was a “sevak” (servant) of the people and would continue to remain so. Suvendu skipped politics while speaking from the religious platform. But his short speech during the ‘nagar kirtan’ flag-off had strong political overtones. He talked about two avatars — Sri Krishna and Sri Rama — though ‘Ras Utsav’ is a celebration of Lord Krishna “meeting his disciples”. Political observers were quick to read into his religious overtures, seeing it as the Trinamool member’s desperate bid to protect his support base from BJP. Monday’s programme indicated that the rebel leader was trying to reach out to Hindu and Vaishnavite voters at a time when leaders of the Nandigram Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee (BUPC) were nowhere around him. Suvendu, under chief minister Mamata Banerjee, was the chief patron of BUPC, a rainbow coalition of forces against the Left Front government in the Nandigram land agitation that eventually catapulted Mamata to power in 2011. Locals said that Suvendu was a regular during festivals at Janaki Mandir in Nandigram besides visiting the pilgrim centres of Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and Sitamarhi on the Ramayana circuit. The organizers said that ‘Dada’ gave his consent to come to the ‘Ras Utsav’ for the first time in the past six years. Following East Midnapore’s legacy of Hinduism and Vaishnavism, Suvendu offered tributes to Lord Krishna, Lord Rama and Devi Durga. On Monday, TMC’s Nandigram block president Meghnad Pal and Nandigram panchayat samiti president Banashree Khanra were among the few politicians around Suvendu, indicating the divide between ‘Dada’ and Trinamool loyalists. However, there was huge enthusiasm among the youths, who jostled to get closer to their ‘Dada’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hare-krishna-on-lips-tmc-rebel-hits-nandigram/articleshow/79501256.cms||Suman Mondal
December 1, 2020||India||Shiv Sena neta announces azan event, later takes a U-turn||MUMBAI: Pandurang Sakpal, a Shiv Sena functionary, made an announcement on Monday over organising an “azan recitation competition for children” only to backtrack a few hours later to say it was only a suggestion made to Muslim members of the party. In a video of Sakpal’s interview to a local website, which has gone viral, he is seen saying, “We will organise an azan recitation competition for children. A winner among the participants with a good voice and proper pronunciations would be selected by the maulanas.” Sakpal, vibhag pramukh from south Mumbai, is also seen saying he likes to listen to the azan as he lives near a mosque. Coming down heavily on the Sena over the issue, BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “Sena has nothing to do with Hindutva now. Sena had always been against loudspeakers on mosques but the party has forgotten everything and adopted a new Hindutva.” Responding to the reaction, Sakpal told TOI he had no intention to organise any azan competition. “The information is incorrect. It was just a suggestion made for a few Muslim party functionaries, to conduct an online azan recitation competition so that children may sit at home, instead of roaming out without wearing a mask amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. BJP has been targeting the Sena over Hindutva ever since the latter formed the Maha Vikas Aghadi by joining hands with the Congress and NCP, known for their secular ideologies. A few days ago, BJP alleged that Sena’s Hindutva has got “adulterated”. While reacting to BJP, Sena president, CM Uddhav Thackeray, in an interview with Saamna, said Hindutva is not like a “dhoti” to be unwrapped from the body, it runs through the veins and lungs in the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shiv-sena-neta-announces-azan-event-later-takes-a-u-turn/articleshow/79501266.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 1, 2020||India||Seek ‘winnable’ seats: Tamil Nadu netas to Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: Rahul Gandhi chaired Congress meetings on election preparations in Assam and Tamil Nadu which go to polls next year, giving a sense of urgency to the battle for political revival amid signs of renewed BJP aggression. Last week, the former Congress chief held discussions with West Bengal party members. The lessons from the recently-concluded Bihar polls were visible in the Tamil Nadu deliberations as some members said the party should focus on seeking “winnable” seats from alliance partners. The same issue was raised in Bengal discussions. The party has been under fire after it managed to secure 70 seats from RJD in Bihar but could win only 17. Sources said the issue of winnable seats was not new as Congress’s Tamil Nadu in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao has been talking about it. The exercise to identify seats will be data-driven and scientific. DMK heads the alliance in Tamil Nadu of which Congress is a part. The Assam meeting, as per information, focused on organisational preparedness. It is learnt that a party office-bearer from the state complained that the PCC chief was speaking too much on alliances at which the latter said the party was losing time on the critical aspect. Sources said Rahul Gandhi asked the members to focus on issues and leave the subject of alliances and seat-sharing to the central leadership. In the Bengal meeting, most party members told Rahul that Congress should have a tie-up with the Left led by CPM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/seek-winnable-seats-tamil-nadu-netas-to-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/79501280.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Support pours in for orphan who lost IIT seat with wrong click||MUMBAI: Hours after TOI carried an exclusive news report about an 18-year-old orphaned teen losing his seat at IIT-B after inadvertently clicking on a wrong link, people from across the country and beyond sent in their support on Monday.  Some even offered help to ensure that dreams of the parentless 18year-old to be an IITian come true, and not be robbed. There was also a major outpouring of support on social media. Siddhant Batra, who lost his single-parent, his mother, two years ago, scored almost 96% marks in the class XII CBSE exam and strove to pursue his target of getting admission to the prestigious Electrical Engineering BTech course at IIT Bombay. Read AlsoOrphan who ranked 270 in JEE clicks wrong link, loses seat in IIT-BAn 18-year-old man raised by a single mother and orphaned two years ago by her death scored an AIR of 270 in JEE and secured a seat of his choice in the electrical engineering BTech course at IIT-Bombay. He lost the seat after he clicked on ‘withdraw from seat allocation and further rounds’ option,However, due to an inadvertent error, he said, he lost his seat. In response to the news report about, fighting a legal battle to regain his ‘bachelor of technology’ seat at IIT Bombay, SRM University, Andhra Pradesh, tweeted an offer to grant him admission with full scholarship. “SRMUAP will be glad to grant admission to the brilliant student Siddhant Batra, all India rank 270 in JEE with a 100% tuition fee waiver for four years, along with free accommodation and food,” it said . The IIT said there was little it could do to reverse the loss, but offered him a second go, directly through JEE Advanced in 2021. It would mean a year lost, says his petition now seeking justice, before the Supreme Court. The SC is expected to hear it this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/support-pours-in-for-orphan-who-lost-iit-seat-with-wrong-click/articleshow/79501295.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 1, 2020||India||Many trucks left stranded across Punjab, Haryana||AGRA: Amid the ongoing massive farmers’ protests in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR, around 150 trucks laden with fruits, vegetables, groceries, garments, shoes and machine spare parts from Agra region have been left stranded at various locations on the national highways in Punjab and Haryana for the past 48 hours. Due to the disruption in the movement of these essential goods, transporters have cancelled existing bookings and new orders. Similarly, transporters from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have refused to operate through western Uttar Pradesh, for now. Virendra Gupta, managing committee member of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said, “Following the massive stir, the goods transport network has been significantly affected in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and J&K.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/many-trucks-left-stranded-across-punjab-haryana/articleshow/79501303.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 1, 2020||India||Congress launches online drive, backs farmers||NEW DELHI: Amid escalating confrontation between the farmers and the Central government, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi asked people to decide “if they stood with agitating farmers or crony capitalist friends of PM Modi” as the opposition party ran an online campaign to lend its weight behind the protests on Monday. In a video message on SpeakUpForFarmers campaign, Rahul said if the farm laws were in favour of agriculturists as claimed by the PM, why had “the farmers of the country come to Delhi in the cold, leaving behind home and field”. Senior Congress member Anand Sharma said the Modi government should recall the Champaran protest of Mahatma Gandhi and Bardoli Satyagrah of Sardar Patel, which brought the British empire to its knees. “This suppression of the Annadata farmers is reprehensible and I urge that the farmers be treated with respect and without any reconditions,” he said. Youth Congress president BV Srinivas led a team of volunteers to distribute food and milk to farmers sitting at the Sindhu Delhi border. AICC social media head Rohan Gupta said the campaign trended number one on twitter till the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-launches-online-drive-backs-farmers/articleshow/79501306.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Just 4 of 79 HIV patients who got Covid died’||Ahmedabad: The acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome (AIDS), as name suggests, is the disease caused by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hampers a patient’s immune response. What happens when such a person contracts Covid-19, another virus which triggers a dangerous immune system response? Dr Rajesh Gopal, additional project director of the state government-run Gujarat State AIDS Control Society, said across 32 centres of antiretroviral treatment (ART) in Gujarat, 79 patients have so far reported Covid-19 infections. “According to our records, only four patients – two from Surat, one each from Ahmedabad and Rajkot districts – have succumbed to the viral infection. We see this as a major achievement,” he said. Dr Gopal said they see success in terms of adherence to the treatment protocol. “Almost all the patients were and are regular with their visits to ART centres to get their medicines. We believe this was a major factor in ensuring their health,” he said, adding that it’s still important for HIV patients to adhere to their treatment protocol. Of 79 patients, 50 needed hospitalization whereas the others were isolated at home or at facilities. Among the deceased, three were older than 50 years and one was 36 years old. IIM-A and AMC join hands to reach out to HIV community Prof Rajesh Chandwani, a faculty member of the CMHS at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A), said that along with the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and AIDS Control Society, they are collaborating with six city-based NGOs to reach out to persons living with HIV. “These communities have unique socio-economic and cultural belongings and we decided to collaborate with NGOs and community-based organizations to reach out to them,” said Prof Chandwani. The project will entail creating awareness about the issue, counselling the patients and periodic medical check-ups. The final project will take the form of a research study to understand collaborative efforts for reaching out to special communities for health communication and delivery of health services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/just-4-of-79-hiv-patients-who-got-covid-died/articleshow/79500310.cms||Parth Shastri
December 1, 2020||Business||AI, automation skills criticalfor career growth: Survey||Chennai: The pandemic is forcing employees globally to differentiate themselves for career progression, and a working knowledge of automation technologies and artificial intelligence (AI) is emerging as the tool to set themselves apart.Almost two-thirds (64%) of executives surveyed globally by tech enterprise UiPath believe automation and AI skills can increase employees’ pay, and 67% say it can give employees more opportunities for career advancement within their organization.73% of the executives said they would pick the candidate with more experience in automation and AI tools even if the role does not require those abilities.Further, regardless of your job’s focus area, it may be important to upskill in these digital technologies as a majority surveyed (over 70%) also said it’s important for even non-technical personnel to have a basic knowledge of these emerging technologies as they become more prevalent in enterprise settings.73% business leaders said they would choose someone with automation skills between two similarly qualified candidates.“We’re hearing loud and clear that executives want all employees to have automation and AI skills, and that employees, in turn, demand training to be successful with these emerging technologies,” Tom Clancy, SVP, UiPath Learning, said in a statement. “Employers need to provide their employees with training initiatives so they can best leverage technology like automation so they’re more productive and satisfied in their careers and to boost the business,” he added.Automation and artificial intelligence tech will be a necessity for jobs in the future and the pandemic has only propelled this necessity with the prevalence of work-from-home, the study said. UiPath, surveyed more than 500 C-level executives and senior managers at large organizations in October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ai-automation-skills-criticalfor-career-growth-survey/articleshow/79499581.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Surat||Demolition of houses obstructing Pal-Umara bridge approach begins||Surat: The completion of the long-pending bridge connecting Pal and Umara across Tapi river was put on the fast-track mode as the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Monday began demolition of the private properties at the approach end of the bridge on the Umara side.The construction work of the Rs 90 crore Pal-Umara bridge, which is 95% completed, got suspended after the owners of 12 houses occupying 13,500 sq ft land refused to vacate their properties and moved the Gujarat high court seeking protection four years ago. The high court had directed the affected families to vacate their houses before November 30 and had authorised SMC to demolish the houses if not vacated. Out of the total 20 affected families, eight families had accepted to move to alternate plots provided by the SMC, while the rest of the families were adamant and did not vacate the houses. SMC commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI, “We have started the demolition of the houses falling under the road alignment of the approach end of the Pal-Umara bridge from Monday. The bridge is 95% completed and that the construction of the approach end was suspended since last four years. About 15 lakh people in Adajan, Pal and Athwalines will be able to use the bridge in the coming days.”According to Pani, the demolition of the houses was carried out by a team including 35 officers from the town planning and Athwa zone, 90 staff members, 60 demolition workers, 15 trucks and 50 policemen. Pani said, “This will be the fifth bridge over Tapi river connecting Adajan with different parts areas of the city including Athwalines, Nanpura, Chowk Bazaar and Umara. The Pal-Umara bridge will help in reducing traffic issues at the cable-stayed bridge and Sardar bridge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/demolition-of-houses-obstructing-pal-umara-bridge-approach-begins/articleshow/79498137.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Surat||Covid test a must for ‘wedding super spreaders’: SMC||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has asked wedding organisers to carry out Covid-19 tests of people associated in catering, mandap, sound and light decoration and videographers among others, who visit different wedding venues and may become ‘super spreaders’. “These professionals may be carrying Covid-19 infections while going from one place to the other and they need to be tested to contain the virus,” said an SMC official. “Organisers will have to ensure those attending the wedding, wear masks and provide sanitisers at each of the venues. If the organisers fail to follow Covid-19 guidelines, actions will be taken,” added the official. Meanwhile, SMC on Monday carried out Covid-19 tests at six wedding venues in Rander zone. “A total of 190 people were tested at the six venues and none tested positive. The tests were carried out at Tapi Building, Shreeji Nagari, Diwali Baug, Senior Citizen Hall, Pal Community Hall and Children Hall,” said an official. As the wedding season is in full swing, SMC’s enforcement team is keeping a close watch on the venues to find out if Covid-19 guidelines are followed or not. In a checking in one such wedding event in Kisan Vatika in Varachha (B) zone, SMC fined Rs 5,000 as guests were not wearing masks and sanitisers were not provided at the venue and no social distancing was followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-test-a-must-for-wedding-super-spreaders-smc/articleshow/79498052.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Patna||Patna slips to 35 in smart city rankings||PATNA: The state capital has slipped in the smart city rankings from 29 in 2019 to 35 in the latest country-wide rankings of 100 urban centres selected under the smart cities mission programme of the ministry of housing and urban affairs. The Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) has got the overall score of 54.99 out of 100 in the rankings published on November 29 on the Union ministry’s official website. The other cities in Bihar have fared worse with Bhagalpur ranked 66 with an overall score of 38.8, Biharsharif ranked 67 with a score of 38.66 and Muzaffarpur ranked 91 with 21.1 points. Muzaffarpur has got zero in compliance parameter. The ranking is based on different parameters, including completion of smart cities mission projects, the cumulative value of tenders issued, work completed, and utilisation of funds, among others. In individual markings, Patna fared poorly in project implementation with just 23.37 of 60 points. The PSCL has got 13.71 points for funds transfer, 7.41 for fund utilisation and 10.5 compliance rank. Mayor Sita Sahu attributed the delay in projects, tender cancellations, cancellation of projects and frequent transfer of officers as the main reasons behind the Patna’s decline in rankings. “Several smart city projects under PSCL got cancelled after bidding was finalised. These projects include the station area redevelopment project, integrated command and control centre (ICCC), and rejuvenation of Bakerganj Nallah among others,” she told this newspaper on Monday. “The number of ‘Jan Sewa kendras’ (public service centre) has been decreased from 75 for each ward to 28. Of which, the construction work is going on at only nine of them. In the ongoing projects under the smart city, one is Adalatganj Talab and beautification of Beerchand Patel Marg. The bidding process began again for the ICCC and the work is going on. So far, only one project of installation of mega-size screen at Gandhi Maidan is complete,” Sahu said. “The amount allocated by the Centre has to be utilised within five years and around 3.5 years have already passed,” she added. Patna divisional commissioner- cum- PSCL chairman Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, on the other hand, said the ranking was not bad and it may improve in the next review as some projects under the smart city are going to be launched within a month. “Redevelopment of Adalatganj Talab, beautification of Beerchand Patel Marg and five public service centres would be ready in December for the inauguration. As far as the station area redevelopment project is concerned, the detailed project report is being prepared by the Bihar State Building Construction Corporation Limited. It will be finalised in December,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-slips-to-35-in-smart-city-rankings/articleshow/79497488.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 1, 2020||Patna||154 test +ve for Covid-19 in Patna||PATNA: Bihar reported altogether 457 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 2,35,616. Five deaths, one each in Patna, Araria, Kishanganj, Madhubani and East Champaran, were also reported after which the toll reached 1,264. However, with 2,28,798 recoveries, there are 5,552 active cases in the state. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported eight deaths, including those of three Patna residents — a 43-year-old man from Murlichak, a 65-year-old woman from Ashiana Nagar and an 83-year-old man from Shahganj. Others, who died of corona, included residents of Gaya, Siwan, Aurangabad and East Champaran. The AIIMS-P’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI, “Altogether 18 patients from localities like Magistrate Colony, Krishna Vihar Colony, Machhua Toli and Bank Colony were admitted to the hospital and eight discharged on Monday.” The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. While no one was admitted to the hospital, one patient was discharged on Monday. Of the 457 people, who tested positive for Covid, 154 were from Patna. Now, the district’s tally has reached 42,171, but with 39,915 recoveries and 326 deaths, there are 1,930 active cases. Corona cases were also reported from districts like Purnea (29), Saharsa (29), Saran (22), Muzaffarpur (21), Samastipur (18), Nawada (16), Gaya (16), Bhagalpur (15) and Jamui (15). Meanwhile, health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 547 people had recovered from corona in 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.11%. During the same period, 1,16,443 samples were tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/154-test-ve-for-corona-in-patna/articleshow/79497512.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Neither RJD nor LJP keen to contest bypoll for Rajya Sabha seat||PATNA: The RJD led by Lalu Prasad may not field any candidate for the one Rajya Sabha seat falling vacant after the death of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. RJD has offered unconditional support to Paswan’s widow Reena Paswan if her party agrees to field her in the Rajya Sabha bypoll. But LJP has not shown any interest so far though some of its leaders had floated Reena’s name saying it would be a real tribute to late Paswan. The last day for filing the nomination papers for this byelection is December 3. NDA’s nominee and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi will file his nomination papers on December 2. The last date for withdrawal of nomination papers is December 7 and voting, if necessitated, will be held on December 14. BJP had sent the senior Paswan to the Rajya Sabha as part of its commitment during the seat-sharing deal with LJP for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But the LJP led by Chirag Paswan lost any chance to stake claim over the seat after going solo in the recent Bihar assembly elections and proving instrumental in the defeat of so many candidates of JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar. It was also a foregone conclusion that LJP would not get the Rajya Sabha seat after Chirag’s acerbic attacks on Nitish during the electioneering. However, sources said Reena could give a tough fight to SuMo, whose victory is almost certain even if there is a contest for the Rajya Sabha seat. That the NDA has a clear majority in the legislative assembly was proved in the election for the Speaker’s post when its candidate Vijay Kumar Sinha got 126 votes against 114 of the opposition Mahagathbandhan camp. Chirag knew it and said after the announcement of SuMo’s candidature that the seat belonged to BJP and it had the choice to select its candidate. The RJD-led Mahagathbandhan is also aware of the fact, but offered support to Reena to score a political point that it favoured a Dalit candidate against BJP’s SuMo. LJP’s state spokesperson Ashraf Ansari on Monday said, “Our party chief on several occasions has said we will follow the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I cannot comment much.” An RJD source said, “If Reena Ji dies not agree, then there is no point in fielding a candidate from the opposition camp.” RJD’s senior leader Bhola Yadav said they are ready to support Reena. “This seat fell vacant after the death of Ram Vilas Paswan ji. Morally, his wife has the right to take this seat. Our party is ready to support her,” said Bhola. He refused to comment when asked what will RJD do if Reena or LJP did not agree. Earlier, sources in RJD said the party might field a Dalit or a Mahadalit in case Reena does not agree. The names of Ram Vilas’s son-in-law Anil Sadhu, former legislators Samta Devi and Shyam Rajak and former parliamentarian Ramji Manjhi were also doing the rounds. However, there was no official RJD statement in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/neither-rjd-nor-ljp-keen-to-contest-bypoll-for-rs-seat/articleshow/79497558.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 1, 2020||Patna||Panel to draft policy for promotion of teachers||PATNA: State education department has formed a six-member committee to draft a policy for appointment of headmasters through promotion of schoolteachers in government-run primary, middle, secondary and higher secondary schools in Bihar. The committee comprising academicians and retired officers would draw the eligibility criteria of promoting schoolteachers as headmasters against vacant posts across the state. Principal secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar said one of the top priorities of the state government is to provide quality education to kids and for that, qualified headmasters are required in schools. “Headmaster is a promotional post, so the department has constituted the committee to prepare the eligibility criteria for the promotion of niyojit teachers (teachers of local bodies) and permanent teachers as headmasters and submit its report within a month,” he told this newspaper on Monday. “This committee will make recommendations on how to simplify the process while maintaining the quality, so that the department could fill the vacant posts of headmasters. Based on the recommendations, we will have further consultations with the stakeholders, including teachers. We will upload the draft policy to the website to seek the views of the stakeholders before making the final policy on promotion to headmasters,” Sanjay said. The principal secretary said a promotion policy was needed because the department had only 66,000 permanent teachers. According to the officials of education department, written exam could be one of the criteria for promoting teachers to headmaster rank, besides the teaching experience of up to eight years. The new service conditions for teachers in local body (panchayat and municipal) school in Bihar have a clear provision that the niyojit teachers would be promoted as headmasters. Of about 30,000 middle schools in Bihar, only 8,000 have regular headmasters. The same is the case with high schools as only 300 out of 8,500 have regular headmasters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panel-to-draft-policy-for-promotion-of-teachers/articleshow/79497124.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 1, 2020||Patna||Chhapra roads witness snarls||CHHAPRA: The roads in Chhapra town and connecting Siwan, Sonepur, Mashrakh and Balia in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh witness frequent traffic snarls these days. Motorists blame it on the suspension of around a dozen passenger trains from Chhapra Junction due to Covid-19. “The problem has aggravated owing to recent guidelines of the state government allowing only 50% passengers in buses,” said Sunil, who daily commutes to Siwan for official work. Binay Kumar, station manager at Chhapra Junction, said about a dozen local trains running from Chhapra Junction to Siwan, Sonepur, Marhoura-Mashrakh and Ballia have been suspended due to Covid-19. “Around 25,000 people travelled from Chhapra on these routes daily,” he said. “Only express trains are running through Chhapra and passengers have to take reservation for sleeper or AC berths at least one day before the date of journey,” said Thakur Sangram Singh, who travels from Sonepur to Chhapra. Sudhanshu Sharma, general secretary of Saran district petroleum dealers association, said the sales of petrol doubled in November. There are about 110 petrol outlets in the district. The problem has also led to surge in sales of two and four-wheelers. “The district transport office has been receiving applications for the registration of 80-85 new vehicles every day,” said Saran district transport officer Madhav Kumar. He said the ensuing marriage season has also been another reason for the increase in sales of vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhapra-roads-witness-snarls/articleshow/79497093.cms||H K Verma
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Two single-screens of Kolkata to reopen, others to follow||KOLKATA: After shutting down for a fortnight, two single-screen theatres of Kolkata — Priya and Jaya — will be reopening on Friday with Christopher Nolan’s ‘Tenet’. Menoka and Asoka, too, will reopen this week if their defunct IMB card required for 2K projection of the film is back in order. Priya’s owner Arijit Dutta believes that irrespective of the scarcity of footfall, he can no longer keep this iconic theatre shut. He is well-aware that there will be no chance of shutting down again even if few people turn up once Priya reopens. “I am not sure how many will throng the theatres for this English film. Yet, I want to give it a chance. It is difficult to keep Priya shut this way. I will have to rotate the staff. Otherwise, how long can I continue paying if the footfall is bad? I will run two shows of ‘Tenet’,” Dutta said. Priya will also run one show of ‘Fastey Fasaatey’ — a film that is being re-released this Friday. Curiously enough, Satadeep Saha, who is distributing this Hindi film, isn’t sure about reopening his own Ajanta cinema this Friday. “I shall take a final call on December 3,” he said. Manik Banik, the owner of Jaya, will also be running multiple shows of ‘Tenet’. His 1,200-seater hall was inaugurated in 1968 and had never been shut because of lack of content. “There is no surety of returns from this release. I decided to reopen only because the content flow has begun,” Banik said. Meanwhile, Pranab Kumar Roy, the owner of Menoka, said a technical issue is preventing him from reopening on Friday with a release of a film that can only be played on a 2K format. “I will reopen this week only when the IMB card issue of UFO digital projection is sorted out. If not, I will reopen with ‘Indoo Ki Jawani’ on December 11,” Roy said. Kushagra Jalan, who is distributing ‘Tenet’ in Bengal, told TOI that he has officially received information from Bijoli and Menoka stating that they are facing some technical spare part issues. “Unless that is done, they can’t play ‘Tenet’ which is available only in 2K format,” he said. Another hiccup for reopening on Friday is regarding the producer-distributor’s terms for screening ‘Tenet’. An exhibitor has to give 50% of the net sale to the producer-distributor. Some cinema owners claim this a tall ask under the current circumstances. “We haven’t come across any such complaints. The terms and conditions for Hollywood titles are set by the studios on a country-wide level. We can’t customize the terms for individual markets,” said Jalan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-single-screens-to-reopen-others-to-follow/articleshow/79498526.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 1, 2020||Business||Niche play gives teeth to toothpaste sales||MUMBAI: Specialisation, which has been driving growth for consumer goods, is now showing a marked increase for one of the most mundane products in the market — toothpaste. Need-based offerings are showing a sharp uptick. These include addressing tooth sensitivity, whitening or with herbal and ‘natural’ flavours. As a result, the market is fast moving from generic all-in-one toothpastes to more need-based offerings such as whitening, mint & herbal flavours, and those that address sensitivity. This is in line with global trends where specialty toothpastes are being developed, while some have been repositioned in the beauty/lifestyle category. Toothpaste, with a market size of around Rs 10,000 crore, is one of the most highly penetrated products and is growing at 2-3%. A case in point for specialisation is the sensitivity category, growing five to six times faster than the overall oral health category. Tapping this potential, GSK Consumer Healthcare is expanding its flagship brand Sensodyne with a specialised oral health care product Polident — a denture care fixative. “Across categories, consumers today are looking for products that cater to their specific needs vs offering all-in-one benefits. The same is true for the oral health category with toothpastes as well. Over time, preference has shifted to toothpastes with a sharply defined benefit proposition — sensitivity relief, freshness and so on. Sensodyne has tapped into this trend to define the sensitivity segment over the last 10 years,” GSK Consumer Healthcare area marketing lead (OH) Anurita Chopra told TOI. Similarly, the ‘natural and ayurvedic’ sub-segment of the toothpaste market is growing at a faster clip. As against this, the overall oral care category grew by around 5% in Q2 of 2020-21. “We are seeing a marked shift in consumer demand for ayurvedic and herbal toothpastes with consumers increasingly seeking natural value-added remedies for their oral hygiene needs. During Q2 2021, Dabur reported a growth of 24% in our toothpaste business with our flagship brand Dabur Red Paste seeing strong double-digit growth. Our Babool and Meswak brands also reported double-digit growths. We have now expanded our oral care portfolio with the launch of Dabur Dant Rakshak Ayurvedic toothpaste. On a quarterly basis, our volume market share has increased by 90bps (100 basis points = 1 percentage point) in Q2 2020-21 to reach 16.4%, which is our highest ever market share in the toothpaste category,” Dabur India CEO Mohit Malhotra said. The need-based or functional categories in oral care are growth drivers for a while now. “These toothpaste categories — gel-based, ‘natural or herbal’ and those addressing sensitivity — have been outperforming the market, and will corner a larger share over the next few years. The trend started in the late ’80-’90s with consumers taking a fancy to gel-based toothpastes, then herbal or ‘natural’ toothpastes became popular. The growth is attributed to smart advertising and marketing by companies, and the trend of premiumisation being witnessed in oral care, similar to what’s happening in consumer goods in general,” said ICICI Securities research head Manoj Menon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/niche-play-gives-teeth-to-toothpaste-sales/articleshow/79500338.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 1, 2020||Business||Irdai’s Saral cover to heat up term insurance market||MUMBAI: The term protection market in the life insurance industry is set to heat up with insurers readying to launch Saral — a standard term policy that has been designed by the regulator, where insurers are expected to compete on price. In October, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (Irdai) directed all life insurers to start selling from January 1, 2021 the Saral Jeevan Bima — a cover with standard wording for sum insured ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. Although insurers have been wary of selling lower value term covers, the rise in demand for term cover during the pandemic has shifted focus to protection. According to ICICI Prudential Life Insurance MD & CEO N S Kannan, there has been a 70% increase in online search for ‘term insurance’ during the pandemic. “Retail sum insured has gone up by 5-6% during this period. Sum insured is growing ahead of GDP, which is good news for industry,” said Kannan. At the same time, claims have been less than what was expected during the pandemic. “We had created an additional reserve, which did not get used up. This is a bit sad as it is an indication that insurance penetration is low,” he said. Besides ICICI Prudential, Life Insurance Corporation and other private companies are working on the product “We fully support this consumer-centric initiative by the regulator. We are keen to go ahead with it and have accordingly filed our product,” said Tata AIA Life CFO & product head Samit Upadhyay. Hitherto insurers have been competing for the high end of the term market with a sum insured over Rs 25 lakh as the mortality experience in that demography is better and they can get reinsurance protection. In the very low end, protection comes from government schemes like PM Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana. The Irdai push is to cover the missing middle. “There are around six crore people filing income tax returns, while only sixty lakh hold term insurance policies, indicating an insurance penetration of 10%,” said Kannan. The Saral Bima makes it easier for all as buyers need not check the fine print, distributors do not have much explaining to do and the regulator does not have to review the plans of each company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdais-saral-cover-to-heat-up-term-insurance-mkt/articleshow/79500435.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 1, 2020||Surat||South Gujarat NGO gets consultative status from UN||SURAT: Shrimad Rajchandra Love and Care (SRLC), a non governmental organisation (NGO) working in South Gujarat’s tribal area, has been granted ‘Special Consultative Status’ by the United Nations Economic and Social Council (UNECOSOC). SRLC is an initiative of Shrimad Rajchandra Mission based at Dharampur of Valsad district and is mostly focused on uplift of rural population in the Dharampur and Kaprada regions. This consultative status to the ECOSOC is the highest status granted by the United Nations to non-governmental organisations. At present, 4,045 NGOs enjoy consultative status with ECOSOC. “This status provides NGOs with access to many subsidiary bodies too, like various human rights mechanisms of the United Nations, ad-hoc processes on small arms, as well as special events organized by the President of the General Assembly,” Dr Bijal Mehta, one of the trustees of SRLC told TOI. “SRLC qualified for this status, because of its multiple projects that fall under the gamut of UN’s sustainable development goals project. SRLC’s early intervention centre is recognised as a model by the central government and is being replicated in other districts in the country,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/south-gujarat-ngo-gets-consultative-status-from-un/articleshow/79498383.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||November cheer for markets after cruel April||MUMBAI: November has turned out to be the best month since April for markets with the sensex rising 11.5%, mainly on the back of a record foreign fund flow helped by a strong global rally. Around the world, the MSCI Global index also rose 13%, its best ever monthly gain as there was major progress on launching Covid-19 vaccines. As equities rallied indicating intentions of global investors to move to risky assets with stocks leading, gold, dollar and crude have been showing weakness. On Monday, gold prices internationally slid 1% to below $1,800-per-ounce level, its lowest level in over four months. During November, the yellow metal also recorded its worst monthly loss in four years. Along with gold, the prices of silver also slid as investors moved away from safe assets. Brent crude was also down to $47 level, while the dollar index was at a two and half year low against an index of major currencies. A recent Goldman Sachs report forecast that if OPEC+ leaders, who are meeting till late on Monday, decide to increase oil output, prices could fall by to about $40. In November, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) net bought stocks worth a little over Rs 60,000 crore or $8.1 billion — the biggest monthly figure recorded, which is much higher than the previous high of Rs 47,080 crore recorded in August this year. Data showed that while FPIs flooded the Indian stock market with funds, they took out $15 billion or more from each of South Korea, Taiwan and Brazil. The ‘vaccine optimism’ is also prompting analysts to turn positive on global growth for the next year and the following. A recent report by global financial powerhouse UBS noted that its analysts were revising the global growth for 2021 to 6.1% from 5.3% earlier and for 2022 to 4.9% from 4.1%. It also said that as people around the globe are inoculated, growth upswing would be uneven with economies still continuing to be ravaged by the virus showing a faster growth reversal. Vaccines, once they become much more widely available, along with economic reforms, is expected to make a positive difference to Indian growth in late 2021 and 2022, UBS analysts said. In 2021, UBS analysts forecast a 10% GDP growth for India and 6.2% for 2022. In the truncated week for which trading would start on Tuesday, a new margining system and several data points are expected to dictate the market’s direction. Investors will move to a new margining system from December 2, while they are also expected to react to India’s Q2 GDP growth rate number that showed a better-than-expected contraction of 7.5%. Decisions at RBI’s monetary policy meeting during December 2-4, auto sales numbers and PMI (manufacturing and services) data are also expected to dictate the Dalal Street’s course this week, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nov-cheer-for-mkts-after-cruel-april/articleshow/79500680.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||No extension of parole to convicted prisoners in UP||LUCKNOW: The UP government has decided not to further extend the parole of convicted prisoners. The order was issued on November 19 to the prisons department to ensure that all convicts return to jails. Acting on the directives of SC to decongest jails in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the state had released as many as 2,256 convicts in May. These convicts were serving sentence of less than 7 years. Prisons department on Monday said out of the 2,256 inmates, four have died, 136 were released as their jail term got completed and 56 others were jailed in other cases leaving 2,063 convicts only. “We got 693 convicts back in jails while others are still to return. A notification for them has been sent to respective district jails and SP” said DG, prisons, Anand Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-extension-of-parole-to-convicted-prisoners-in-state/articleshow/79500792.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||400-year-old Kulsumpura mosque lies in neglect||Hyderabad: The mosque of Kulsumpura in Karwan, which is a 400-year-old architectural grandeur and holds a significant position in the history of the region is in dire need of policy-makers’ attention. The fabled mosque was built by Princess Kulsum Begum, daughter of Sultan Mohammed Qutub Shah with the Mehr (money or gift given as a mark of respect to the wife at the time of marriage) she received from her husband in consideration of the marriage. The architecture of the mosque is said to be very similar to other Qutub Shahi mosques in the city. However, with no efforts being made for its restoration or conservation, the fabled mosque, which was built between 1612 and 1626 AD, paints a sad picture without attracting any visitors and many passing by without even knowing its true value. TOI’s visit to the structure revealed that the minarets of the tomb are covered with overgrown vegetation, which could be the reason for huge cracks developing on the minarets and other exteriors of the mosque. The impressive stuccowork can also be seen peeling off at many places on the structure. The managing committee of the mosque said they have submitted several representations to the state heritage department to restore the structure to prevent further damage, but to no avail. Mohammed Omer Ali Waseem, the masjid committee’s executive member, said they had been writing to the state archaeology department since 2014 asking them to restore the mosque, but to no avail. “I gave a fresh representation earlier this month requesting the state heritage department to start the restoration works. The damage is so bad that the entire structure can fall apart any time,” said Waseem. The managing committee received a letter from the director of the archaeology department, only in 2017 stating that a conservation architect had visited the site and prepared an estimate of Rs 42 lakh, but they could not be take up the work post that due to lack of funds. When contacted, B Narayana, deputy director of state heritage department said, “We have recently submitted our action plan to the government for restoration of the structure. Once that proposal for the action plan is sanctioned and funds are released, we can start the work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/400-year-old-kulsumpura-mosque-lies-in-neglect/articleshow/79500317.cms||Moulika.KV
December 1, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar opens Bihar’s longest elevated AIIMS-Digha Road||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar inaugurated the 12.5km-long AIIMS-Digha elevated corridor in Patna on Monday. Constructed at the cost of Rs1289.25 crore, this corridor will help people from north Bihar reach the AIIMS-Patna through Sonepur-Digha JP Setu without facing the city traffic. “This is the longest elevated road of Bihar and seventh in India. It has 106 metres long ROB on Patna-Delhi railway line. This is claimed to be the longest ROB in India,” an official of road construction department (RCD) told TOI on Monday. After inauguration of the elevated corridor, the CM accompanied by ministers and RCD officials went to the northern side of the JP Setu and inspected its northern approach road. During the course of inauguration and inspection, additional chief secretary (RCD) Amrit Lal Meena briefed the CM about the ongoing road projects and future plans. Speaking on the occasion, Nitish said, “I am very glad to have the opportunity to inaugurate this elevated corridor. It is the first inaugural programme in my new term.” Nitish also said the construction work of the elevated corridor had to be completed in 2018, but it got delayed due to the work on the rail overbridge (ROB). “We also spoke to the rail minister and railway officials for early completion of the rail overbridge. After that the work of the elevated corridor could be expedited,” the CM said. He also honoured the officials and engineers engaged in the work of the elevated corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-opens-states-longest-elevated-aiims-digha-road/articleshow/79497400.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar government decision makes to-be-couples happy||PATNA: Those who are to tie the knot or have weddings in their families heaved a sigh of relief after the state government eased Covid-19 restrictions and allowed band-baaja-baraat and also permitted up to 150 guests at the marriage ceremonies. As the marriage season is on, florists, wedding planners, caterers as well as event management companies are trying to provide the best while following the safety protocols of Covid in this wedding season. Sachin Kumar Shrivastav and his younger brother Saket have welcomed the state government’s decision. Both will get married in the first week of December. Saket, a banker and resident of Kankarbagh, said they were struggling to minimize the guests as the invitation cards had already been sent to relatives and friends. “The government announcement has come as a boon for us,” he said. Richa Sinha, a resident of Krishnapuri, said the previous cap of 100 guests at weddings had spoiled her plan. However, she is now making preparations for the wedding on December 5. “I have invited only close friends and relatives. The increase in limit of guests has saved me from the embarrassment of telling people not to come,” Richa said. “No wedding is complete without friends and band-baaja-baraat. The venue has already been booked and I would not be able to reduce my guests because some are coming from other states to attend my wedding,” said Anshu Agarwal, an IT professional and resident of Kadamkuan. Sandeep Kumar, a businessman and resident of Bazar Samiti said, “I have again booked the band-baaja and sent invites to 50 more people. As only a week is left for the wedding, I’m just finalizing everything.” The hospitality and other sectors engaged in businesses related to weddings have also heaved a sigh of relief as increase in the number of guests will add to their income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-decision-makes-to-be-couples-happy/articleshow/79497537.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 1, 2020||Patna||CPI(ML) holds rallies in Bihar to support farmers’ stir||PATNA: CPI(ML) organized rallies in different parts of the state on Monday to show solidarity with the agitating farmers of Punjab and Haryana. Party general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said the “anti-farmer policies” of the Centre led to the emergence of “peaceful Shaheen Bagh type” of protests on the outskirts of Delhi. Addressing a rally at Kargil Chowk in Patna, Bhattacharya said instead of holding talks with the agitating farmers, the Centre appears to be engaged in fighting a battle with them. CPI(ML) has also decided to participate in the protest to be organized by the Kisan Sabha on December 2. A party communique said strong protest rallies were organized in Bhojpur, Siwan, Arwal, Jehanabad, Gopalganj, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Vaishali, Buxar, Gaya, Nawada and Madhubani districts. Bhattacharya said the farmers’ anger was not sudden and, in fact, had been building up for some time past against the three anti-Kisan Acts brought out by the Centre. He said the Centre should stop spreading misinformation about the farmers’ agitation. The protests have first surfaced in Punjab and Haryana because the farmers there are relatively richer than those in Bihar, but the anger has also been brewing up in the state, he said. Noting that the three Acts were passed in questionable ways, Bhattacharya said the Centre has also adopted anti-labour policy, besides bringing in the Citizenship Amendment Act, which together have induced anger among various sections of society. Among others who also addressed the protest rally at Kargil Chowk were CPI(ML) state secretary Kunal, politburo member Amar and several other functionaries, including CPI(ML) MLAs Mahboob Alam and Gopal Ravidas, as well as Meena Tiwari, Saroj Choubey and K D Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cpiml-holds-rallies-in-support-of-farmers-stir/articleshow/79497615.cms||Abhay Singh
December 1, 2020||Patna||Two auto drivers arrested for teacher’s murder in Patna||PATNA: Two autorickshaw drivers arrested on Monday for robbing and killing a 29-year-old woman teacher in Patna on Saturday told the police that they turned to crime as their income from driving autos had fallen due to lack of passengers. “Our income has substantially fallen due to the lockdown. As we were finding it difficult to meet our daily expenses, we decided to turn to crime,” one of the arrested auto-drivers Gaurav told media persons when asked why he committed the crime. The investigating officers, however, described the accused’s statement as an attempt to cover up their crimes. Investigation revealed that a group of four auto-drivers had committed the crime when the teacher Saika Parveen and her husband Imran Alam (34) were on their way to Patna junction by an auto-rickshaw after alighting from a bus from Siwan. The auto-drivers were waiting for passengers near Agamkuan. “We offered the couple to travel in the auto-rickshaw. After finding the couple alone, we plotted to rob them. As soon as the auto reached Chirayatand, Gaurav started looting them,” said the other arrested accused Awadhesh Kumar alias Jishu. Gaurav’s two accomplices were travelling in the same auto. Jishu (26), a resident of New Bypass road, told the cops that Gaurav (23) fired at Saika when she resisted the loot. A frightened Imran handed over his wallet, ATM cards and cash immediately to Gaurav. Jishu, who was driving the auto, fled after abandoning the vehicle. He had hired the auto having no police code from one Aman Raj, stated to be a resident of Kachauri Gali in Patna City. City SP (East) Jitendra Kumar said, “The weapon used in the crime was recovered from the possession of Gaurav, a resident of Chandmari road. Raids are on to nab the two accomplices of Gaurav and Jishu”. Jakkanpur police station SHO Mukesh Kumar Verma said Gaurav has criminal records. “Three of the four involved in the Saturday’s incident are auto-drivers while the fourth one is a co-driver,” he added. The deceased Saika was a teacher at Rama Rani Jain Girls School at Dehri-on-Sone in Rohtas district while her husband Imran was posted as public relations officer of a private bank in Siwan’s Andar block. The couple was on way to Dehri-on-Sone from Siwan. IG (Patna range) Sanjay Singh has set up an SIT to probe the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-auto-drivers-arrested-for-teachers-murder-in-city/articleshow/79497600.cms||Ramashankar
December 1, 2020||Patna||Covid-19: CRPF camp at Bihar's Rajgir to be declared containment zone||BIHARSHARIF: The Rajgir based CRPF training camp is to be declared containment zone following detection of five Covid-19 cases on Sunday. There are 500 CRPF personnel in the camp. In April this year, Biharsharif’s Khasganj, Shekhana, Sakunat and Qamruddinganj localities were declared containment zones. In the three localities, more than 50 persons, including a doctor, had contracted infection from the one who had returned from Dubai on March 22. Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh on Monday said any locality with five coronavirus positive cases would be declared containment zone. He said screening was underway in different localities. Singh said nine positive cases, including the five from CRPF camp, were registered in the district on Sunday. “There has been a significant drop in the number of corona positive cases in the district in the last one month but it’s the time to be more careful,” he said. He said since it’s outburst in April this year, the number of positive cases is little more than 7,300 and 40 persons died in the district due to it during this period. He said more than 4,14,000 samples were tested in the district till November 29 and reports of over 4,00,000 suspects were received till that day. The first Covid positive case in Nalanda district was detected on March 18 when a person, who had returned from Abu Dhabi, tested positive. He was the first person from the district to have died due to corona after a few days of his admission at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/crpf-camp-at-rajgir-to-be-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/79497525.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar witnesses 11 murders, one gang rape in 24 hours||PATNA: Days after CM Nitish Kumar’s stern warning to strengthen policing in the state initiate disciplinary action against negligent police personnel, the state witnessed 11 murders and one gang rape in the past 24 hours alone. While Nawada accounted for three murders, two people were killed in Aurangabad and Madhubani districts each followed by one each in Patna, Lakhisarai, Khagaria and West Champaran. A BMP jawan in Nalanda district had a lucky escape on Sunday when a bullet missed the target. In the Nawada incident, a 40-year-old woman and her two minor children were found dead by neighbours at Pranpur village under Rajouli police station area on Monday. Police said the deceased Lachho Devi lived with her two sons Rajiv Kumar (13) and Raj Kumar (10) at their Vinoba Nagar residence alone. She is stated to be the second wife of a retired sub-inspector of police Shiv Narain Choudhary, a resident of Jehanabad district. Nawada SP (in-charge) Anand Kumar said, "Prima facie it appeared to be a case of murder as injury marks were found. The bodies have been sent to the Sadar hospital at Nawada for post mortem. The autopsy report is awaited. We will be able to come to any conclusion only after receiving the autopsy report.” A day earlier, a married woman was allegedly gang-raped at a village under Mufassil police station in Purnia district on Sunday. In her statement, the survivor alleged that she was taken to an unknown place by the main accused, Md Sagir, where his two other friends Md. Nasir and Md. Nuzwa were waiting. Two more men later joined them. “They took turns to rape me after holding me captive,” she told the investigating officers. The SHO Aditya Kumar said the allegations levelled by the victim were being verified. “The man, who plotted the entire incident, is known to the victim. A police team has been sent to record the victim’s statement and subsequently initiate action against the accused,” he added. In Aurangabad, the police recovered the bodies of two youths from a railway track near Jakhim railway station on Monday. The family members told the police that Munna Kumar and Bipin Kumar had left home in an SUV to meet a friend Ranjeet Kumar. In Patna, a 42-year-old driver, Satyendra Yadav, was killed and his car taken by the assailants from Budhdev Chak village on Patna-Bakhtiarpur road late on Sunday night. The incident took place when Yadav, a resident of Nawada district, had stopped the car at a roadside shop. A report from Lakhisarai said that a gang of highway robbers looted Rs.1 lakh and shot dead the driver of a van on NH-80 under Suryagarha police station late on Sunday night. The deceased, Pankaj Kumar, a native of Munger district, was on way to Patna from Munger. In Khagaria, one Gyani Sharma was killed at Pansalwa village under Beldaur police station on Sunday night. The SHO Shiv Kumar said Sharma’s throat was slit. In Madhubani, a 28-year-old married woman Bharti Devi was killed by a man at Dith Bhagwanpur village under Madhepur police station in Madhubani district. Later, a mob thrashed the accused and threw his body in a river. DSP Ashish Anand said the body of the youth was recovered and sent to for post-mortem. He said a love affair is stated to be the reason behind the incident. In West Champaran, a priest Arun Pandey was killed by unidentified men under Bathwaria police station area around 10.30 pm on Sunday. The incident took place when Pandey was returning after performing puja at Sera Bazar on his bicycle. In Nalanda, unidentified armed criminals opened fire at a BMP jawan Md. Mustafa near the district jail on Monday. The cop, however, survived as the bullet missed the target. (With inputs from Tirth Raj Kushwaha in Bagaha)(The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-witnesses-11-murders-one-gang-rape-in-24-hours/articleshow/79496973.cms||Ramashankar
December 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar promotes Valmiki Tiger Reserve as tourist spot in vacation||PATNA: With Covid-19 pandemic spoiling vacation plans to sea beach or abroad, Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) offers a choice with spots like Manguraha, Valmiki Nagar and Govardhana having tourist facilities and scenic beauty, environment, forest and climate change department additional chief secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said on Monday. “These places have some unique features and the department is ensuring the safety of tourists,” he said. One such holiday spot is Manguraha with an option of animal sightseeing, natural beauty and safari ride crossing the river. It is a part of VTR and tourists have been allowed since November 10. Manguraha range DFO Ambarish Mall said the campus where tourists could stay was inaugurated in September this year. After the reopening in November, the rooms are keeping full to their capacity, especially on weekends, he said. Mall said tourists revealed how pandemic made them opt for a nearby place for vacation. “We are taking all precautions. For instance, earlier six people were allowed for a safari ride, which has been reduced to four now,” he added. Gaurav Ojha, the DFO at VTR, said children below 10 and those above 65 years are not allowed for safety reasons. “We have closed down cultural activities, which included folk dance by the local tribe, and documentaries because such activities involve gathering,” said Ojha. However, he said safari is allowed. Ojha said all the rooms and vehicles are sanitized regularly and temperature is checked. He further said the footfall is no less when compared to previous years. “Over 15 safari rides take place in the VTR daily,” said Ojha, adding the footfall has been increasing with each passing year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-promotes-vtr-as-tourist-spot-in-vacation/articleshow/79497569.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 1, 2020||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi lauds return of Annapoorna idol from Canada||VARANASI: Referring to Canada returning the idol of Goddess Annapoorna stolen from Kashi a century ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a thinly veiled attack on those running the previous Union governments saying “some people think for themselves and their relatives only without considering the country’s interest”. “It is a matter of great happiness that the idol of Mata Annapoorna, which was stolen from Kashi a century ago, is coming home. It could have happened much earlier had those in power in the previous governments made sincere efforts,” Modi said while addressing a gathering at the Raj Ghat here on the occasion of Dev Deepawali on Monday evening. “Humare liye virasat ka matlab hai desh ki dharohar, kuchh Humara dhyan desh ki virasat ka bachav aur sanrakshit karne par hai logon ke liye sirf apna parivar aur apne parivar ka naam (For us, heritage means country’s heritage, and for some people it is just their own family and family’s name. Our intention is to protect and conserve the heritage of the country,” said Modi asking the audience, “Am I doing right?” He added, “For us heritage means our culture, our faith, our values! For others it might mean, their idols and family photos. Had efforts been made earlier, the country could have got several such statues back a long long time ago.” Just a day before his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ on Sunday, the PM had also spoken about Canada returning the Goddess Annapoorna’s idol. In his 30-minute address, the PM on Monday also highlighted the liveliness of Kashi and importance of Goddess Annapoorna. He also spoke about the tradition of Dev Deepawali started by Adi Shakaracharya and further revived by the Queen Ahilyabai Holkar. The PM also spoke about the government schemes for the poor. He also motivated the audience to be ‘vocal for local’ in day-to-day life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-lauds-return-of-annapoorna-idol-from-canada/articleshow/79498858.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Ahmed Patel’s son, daughter refuse to join active politics||SURAT/BHARUCH: The son and daughter of deceased Congress stalwart Ahmed Patel on Monday dismissed suggestions of joining active politics and emphasized that they will continue to carry forward the social work initiated by their father. Patel, 71, died on November 25 due to multiple organ failure in Gurgaon’s Medanta Hospital where he was admitted after being infected with Covid-19 in October. He was laid to rest in his native Piraman village, 14 km from Bharuch. Political circles are ripe with the buzz that Congress may ask Patel’s son Faisal or daughter Mumtaz to contest the Rajya Sabha seat from Gujarat left vacant after the leader’s death. On Monday, several Congress leaders including state’s party president Amit Chavda and others visited Piraman and met the bereaved family. “People from all walks of life are visiting us to express their condolenc. They are narating stories about how our father helped them on various occasions. We were overwhelmed with this extraordinary affection,” 43-year-old Faisal told reporters. He was flanked by Mumtaz. “Many political leaders advised us to join active politics like our father. But we want to tell people that we don’t have any plan to join politics, but continue our father’s legacy of social work,” they stressed. Patel had set up HMP Foundation in Piraman to carry out health and educational programmes in and around the village. It runs Industrial training Institute (ITI), a dispensary, three ambulances and schools free of cost for poor people of this area. Talking to TOI, Chavda said, "Ahmedbhai's son and daughter are not considering to join politics but are keen to carry forward their father's social work. However, we believe that if they pursue active politics, the Congress party and both of them will benefit from Ahmedbhai's goodwill.'' “We want to focus on the education and health sector through the HMP Foundation and serve the society and the poor. We will continue to visit our home town and focus on welfare activities,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ahmed-patels-son-daughter-dont-wish-to-join-politics/articleshow/79498272.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||LVB’s savings and FD interest rates unchanged till further notice||CHENNAI: DBS Group Holdings on Monday said that the interest rates on savings bank accounts and fixed deposits will remain unchanged for Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) customers till further notice. In a press statement on Monday, DBS Bank India (DBIL) said LVB’s customers can continue to access all banking services. All LVB employees will continue in service and are now employees of DBIL on the same terms and conditions of service as under LVB. DBIL CEO Surojit Shome said, “The amalgamation of LVB has provided stability and better prospects to its depositors, customers and employees following a period of uncertainty.” It also said the DBS team has been working closely with LVB colleagues to integrate their systems and networks. Once complete, customers will be able to access a wider range of products and services, including access to the full suite of DBS digital banking services, which have won multiple global accolades. The bank’s management also said this merger has given it an access to a larger set of customers and cities where they have had no presence. The bank said it is well-capitalised and its capital adequacy ratio (CAR) will remain above regulatory requirements even after the amalgamation. Additionally, the parent company DBS Group will inject Rs 2,500 crore into DBIL to support the amalgamation and for future growth, which will be fully funded from the group’s existing resources. The moratorium imposed on LVB was lifted from November 27 and banking services were restored immediately with all branches, digital channels and ATMs functioning as usual. The scheme of amalgamation is under the special powers of the Indian government and the RBI under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, India, and came into effect on November 27, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvbs-savings-and-fd-interest-rates-unchanged-till-further-notice/articleshow/79499538.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 1, 2020||Surat||Savarna Aayog disbursed Rs 42cr to fund food bills||Surat: Girls emerge as the major beneficiaries of the food bill scheme floated by state government's Gujarat Unreserved Educational and Economical Development Corporation (GUEEDC). The scheme aims to help girls from families that have annual income below Rs 4.5 lakh to pursue their studies. GUEEDC, set up three years ago after the Patidar anamat andolan demanding reservation in education and government jobs in the state, aims at carrying out various developmental activities for community belonging to unreserved class by offering financial aid for education, economic and social development. It offers eight schemes which include education scheme, food bills, coaching help, tuition, competition exams, foreign studies, self-employment and loans for training as commercial pilots. Among all these schemes, food bill scheme (non-refundable) is by far the most popular scheme of GUEEDC in terms of its beneficiary numbers. According to sources, between 2018 and October 2020, the corporation disbursed Rs 42 crore under food bill to over 35,725 students, more than half of whom are girls. “In terms of beneficiaries , GUEEDC's food bill scheme – a non-refundable financial assistance – has the highest numbers and has served its purpose of helping girls from rural areas study further by staying in hostels and assisting their education expenses,” outgoing director of GUEEDC, Rupin Patchigar told TOI. “The eligibility criteria to avail benefit is that the family income has to be below Rs 4.5 lakh and that the candidate should be staying in a hostel. The scheme provides assistance to those students who study in medical (under graduation), para-medical, technical and dental courses. Though, we made an exception for girls wherein we allowed girls who are studying in Class 9 to 12 as eligibility criteria,'' Patchigar added. According to an official, financial assistance of Rs 22.3 crore has been given to 18,937 girls and Rs 8.18 crore to 6,891 boys in four months between August and November 2020. Earlier the scheme gave Rs 12,000 per annum to the students which from last year has been increased to Rs 15,000. The amount is directly deposited into the students’ accounts.According to GUEEDC sources, total Rs 572 crore were given as loans, financial assistance to over 63,000 students in the state since August 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/savarna-aayog-disbursed-rs-42cr-to-fund-food-bills/articleshow/79498218.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
December 1, 2020||Varanasi||PM lights the first Dev Deepawali diya||Varanasi: It was a breathtaking view with lakhs of diyas twinkling on the ghats of the Ganga, and a sublime moment as Prime Minister Narendra Modi lit the first earthen lamp to start the celebrations of Dev Deepawali, when Gods are believed to descend to bathe in the holy river, in Varanasi on Monday evening. It was a transcendental experience for the people of Kashi who had never seen such a grand and glittering celebration on Dev Deepawali and one which even PM Modi will cherish for always despite having visited his parliamentary constituency many times till now. The celebrations began with the PM lighting a diya at Raj Ghat and soon lakhs of diyas lit up. It seemed as if innumerable stars had fallen from the sky on the pious land of the holy city to turn the banks of the Ganga even more beautiful on the pious occasion. After lighting the lamp and addressing the gathering at Raj Ghat, the PM took a ride on cruise to watch the grandeur of Dev Deepawali along the 7.5km stretch of Ganga river’s bank. This year, the sand bed of the river on the opposite bank was also decorated extensively with sand art and illuminated with earthen lamps and lights. On the way, the PM witnessed the mesmerizing laser show at Chet Singh Ghat. After arriving at Ravidas Ghat, he paid floral tributes at the statue of Sant Ravidas. Earlier, PM Modi accompanied by CM Yogi Adityanath visited Kashi Vishwanath temple to see the progress of work in KV Dham corridor project. He also offered prayers to Lord Vishwanath before proceeding to Raj Ghat. On Dev Deepawali devotees pray to Maa Ganga and offer flowers and diyas in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-lights-the-first-dev-deepawali-diya/articleshow/79498878.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Rope in ShafathAli Khan to trapman-eater tiger’||Hyderabad: Telangana Wild Boar Menaced Farmers’ Association has asked Sirpur MLA Koneru Konappa to rope in the services of tranquilising expert Nawab Shafath Ali Khan to capture the maneater-tiger in Asifabad. Pervaram Santhaji, president of the association, on Monday submitted a representation to Konappa asking the governnment to avail the services of author of ‘Man-Eaters’ and founder of Wildlife Tranquil Force Shafath Ali Khan. “Two innocent lives have been in tiger attack in Asifabad. Life in the forest area has come to a grinding halt due to the fear of the maneater- tiger,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rope-in-shafathali-khan-to-trapman-eater-tiger/articleshow/79500321.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bees ‘hijack’ aircraft, delay flights by an hour||KOLKATA: A swarm of bees settled on two Vistara Airlines aircraft parked in the same bay at Kolkata airport 16 hours apart, forcing an hour’s delay in the flights and deployment of fire-fighting water bowsers on both occasions to drive them away. This is the third instance of bees taking a fancy to planes in Kolkata. Last September, bees had swarmed an Air India aircraft. There were multiple invasions in August and September 2012 involving Air India and IndiGo aircraft. In all the cases, the insects had zeroed in on planes parked in the remote bay in front of the integrated terminal. The incidents on Sunday evening and Monday morning occurred at bay 25, leading to the airline requesting the airport operator to allocate another bay for the time being. The problem first occurred around 4pm on Sunday, just before boarding was to commence for the Delhi-bound flight. As the swarm settled on the plane’s exterior, boarding was put on hold and the fire services department alerted. “Within minutes, lakhs of bees had settled on the plane as though ready to build a hive. Water jets had to be sprayed for a good 30 minutes to dislodge them. The flight ultimately took off at 6.30pm instead of 5.30pm,” said an airline official. Vistara ground staff were in for a shock on Monday morning as well when they found the bees back on another aircraft. Though there were other planes in adjoining bays, the bees chose the Vistara aircraft scheduled to leave for Port Blair at 10.30am. The swarm was so big that it nearly obliterated the Vistara lettering on the plane. Cargo loaders could not venture near the aircraft as the bees had settled down just above the cargo bay door that had been opened to load luggage. Again, firefighters targeted the water canon at the bees to drive them away. The plane ultimately took off at 11.30am. Veteran pilots said no aircraft is allowed to take off if it has a swarm of insects on its body. “Each aircraft has several small probes to determine the static pressure and the total pressure of airflow around the aircraft. These are extremely sensitive. Even if one bee goes inside the probe, the air-speed indicators can go wrong. And that can be catastrophic,” said a pilot. A Vistara crew member tweeted, “Bad weather. A technical fault. A late-arriving aircraft. Just some of the reasons your flight might be delayed... One to add to the list: A Swarm Of Bees! Honeybee. Footage from #KolkataAirport today... Water Cannon had to be used to disperse the bees!” Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said that following the back-to-back incidents, the airport grounds and the terminal building’s exterior was checked to see if bees had made a hive anywhere. Insecticide was also sprayed in the vicinity. But, like on previous occasions, no bee hive could be spotted. The last time it happened, airport authorities and airline officials thought that bees had nested somewhere in or around the airport. And that could have meant more attacks and delays. But since no hive was spotted during checks this time, and given the fact that similar attacks seem to be happening around the same time, it may turn out to be a migrating swarm making an unscheduled stop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bees-hijack-aircraft-delay-flights-by-an-hr/articleshow/79498632.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 1, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Vapi doctor among two accused of rape||SURAT: A 45-year-old woman staying in Kamrej area has accused two men including a doctor of raping her. The cops booked both the accused on Sunday and arrested one of them. According to the complaint lodged by the woman, she met Dr Nilesh Shah, a former intern at New Civil Hospital, during a train journey three years. They began talking regularly and got into relationship. Shah then told the woman that he needed Rs 3 lakh for paying his academic fees following which she lent him money. But Shah later refused to marry the complainant following which she broke off their relationship. She soon came in contact with her former neighbour Pavan Kahar and the two got into relationship. Kahar promised her that he will recover the money she gave to Shah. He made videos of her in objectionable positions and began blackmailing her. “Kahar made videos of the woman and blackmailed her. He raped her multiple times promising to help her recover the money,” said a police officer at Kamrej police station. He even threatened to make the videos viral on social media. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vapi-doctor-among-two-accused-of-rape/articleshow/79498185.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kanpur||Girl attempts suicide after baraat doesn’t turn up||KANPUR: A bride- to-be, allegedly attempted suicide by consuming poisonous substance after the groom didn’t turn up with `baraat' at the marriage venue in Kanpur Dehat district on late Sunday night. The incident happened in the Derapur police area of the district where the groom’s side, without giving any prior information, did not turn up on the day of marriage. The bride was later admitted to a nearby Community Health Centre where doctors stated her condition to be stable. According to police, the girl’s marriage was fixed for November 29 and the baraat was to arrive from Akbarpur area of the district. "The bride to be, when came to know from her family members that the groom side had cancelled the wedding, she consumed some poisonous substance. When her condition started deteriorating, her family members admitted her to a nearby CHC where doctors stated her condition to be out of danger. Though the bride side had verbally informed the police about the extreme step taken by the bride to be, but as of now, they have not given any written complaint to the police in this regard," said inspector Derapur Punjab Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-attempts-suicide-after-baraat-doesnt-turn-up/articleshow/79499264.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Varanasi||New GRP thana inaugurated at Varanasi junction||VARANASI: The newly constructed thana of the Government Railway Police (GRP) in the state-of-art centrally air conditioned section of the newly expanded main building of Varanasi junction was inaugurated on Monday. Now with the newly created facility, the railway offenders involved in theft, snatching, begging, illegal vending, travelling in trains without ticket and blocking railway tracks will ‘chill’ in the lockup. According to the station director Anand Mohan, upgradation and remodelling of Varanasi junction is being done with a major project of Rs 568.7 crore. Besides, the modern GRP thana, the expanded building also has a world class waiting lobby, escalators, stairs for a new railway foot over bridge, cafeteria and other passenger amenities. GRP inspector Ashok Kumar Dubey said that the accommodation has separate chambers for station in-charges, sub-inspectors, office room and armoury. Earlier, the GRP had its thana at the platform 4/5. The building at platform 4/5 is being abandoned for demolition as these platforms are going to be trimmed for laying one extra railway track. According to him, on an average six miscreants involved mainly in theft and snatching of mobile, chain or purse are kept in lockups of GRP per day before producing them before the court. The lockup in the new building has sufficient space to accommodate 10 persons. The violators of Rail Act and Railway Property Unlawful Possession Act, who can be beggars, illegal vendors, people travelling in trains without ticket, those damaging railway property or stealing it and also protesters are kept in the lockup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/new-grp-thana-inaugurated-at-varanasi-junction/articleshow/79498874.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Meteorologists predict colder winter, season begins today||PATNA: Meteorologists say winter season will officially commence from Tuesday (December 1). They also say the three-month crisp weather will be colder this time as minimum temperature is likely to be few notches lower than the corresponding normal. Sanjay Kumar of Patna Meteorological Centre told TOI on Monday that ‘moderate’ La Nina weather phenomenon is responsible for the expected plunge in temperature. “The minimum temperature remains comparatively lower under the influence of La Nina weather phenomenon, which leads to lower sea surface temperature, particularly in the Mediterranean Pacific Ocean. Accordingly, north-west India, northern plains and parts of eastern India, including Bihar, are likely to witness lower temperature this year,” he said. As far as the prevailing weather condition is concerned, the lowest minimum temperature in Bihar was recorded 9.2 degrees C at Gaya. The minimum temperature at Patna, on the other hand, was 11 degrees C, which was one notch lower than the corresponding normal for the day. Amit Sinha, an officer at Patna Meteorological Centre, said weather is getting colder in majority parts of north Bihar owing to snowfall and cold wave. “Weather is likely to remain colder in Bihar under the influence of cold and dry northwesterly winds. The wind speed increased on Monday, which will lead to further plunge in minimum temperature,” he said, adding that foggy conditions can be witnessed near water bodies, including rivers and ponds. India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued seasonal forecast for December to February period. It stated that below normal minimum temperatures are likely over most subdivisions of north, northwest, central and few subdivisions over east India. “As per the season forecast, the temperature in Bihar will also be comparatively lower. Besides, the frequency of western disturbances and their influence over weather in Bihar is likely to be higher this year, which may further intensify winter conditions,” Sanjay said. The western disturbances are low-pressure area or extra-tropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause snow and winter rainfalls in northwestern Indian subcontinent. Apart from rain, the western disturbances are usually followed by sudden plunge in temperature along with foggy conditions owing to the remnant moisture in the atmosphere. The influence of western disturbances is at times followed by cold wave. A cold wave condition is declared at a place when the normal minimum temperature is 10 degrees C or above and departure from normal is 4.5-6.5 degrees C for two consecutive days. According to sources, there was no spell of cold wave in the winter last year, but weathermen claimed that this time few such spells will be witnessed over the next two months. “While we are expecting few western disturbances to influence the weather conditions in northern plains this winter, the departure of the minimum temperature from the corresponding normal is also likely to lead to few spells of cold wave,” Sanjay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/meteorologists-predict-colder-winter-season-begins-today/articleshow/79497467.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 1, 2020||Patna||‘Katha’ and ‘pravachan’ resonate during Prakashotsava festivities||PATNA: The 551st Prakashotsava or birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev was celebrated with religious fervour at the Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib Gurdwara in Patna City on Monday. The celebrations began with ‘katha’ and ‘pravachan’ headed by Gyani Ranjit Singh, the main priest of the gurdwara. The 48-hour ‘Akhand Path’, the non-stop continuous reading of the Guru Granth Sahib, concluded at midnight. Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Prabandhak Committee superintendent Daljeet Singh told this newspaper, “Pawandeep Kanpuriya from Ludhiana, Gurmeet Singh from Lucknow, Hardeep Singh from Tatanagar and Bhaisaheb Singh from Nanded performed ‘kirtan’ on the occasion.” He added, “A daylong ‘langar’ was organized at the gurdwara and the entire campus illuminated with lights. Altogether 5,100 earthen lamps were lit at the Kangan Ghat on Sunday.” Meanwhile, hundreds of people thronged the gurdwara to celebrate Prakashotsava. One of the devotees, R S Jeet Singh, said, “My family and I had to be here today to pay obeisance to Guru Nanak Dev. We, therefore, followed all the Covid safety norms.” Another devotee, Archana Singh, urged people to follow the principles of the first Sikh guru. “We should all remember the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev,” she said. CM extends wishes: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar extended his wishes for Prakashotsava on Monday, calling Guru Nanak Dev a philosopher, social reformer, poet, patriot and religious leader. “Guru Nanak ji had travelled extensively in all directions to preach the message of peace, compassion and humanity. He taught that there is only one God for all humanity. He used to say that we should always sacrifice greed and earn money by hard work. We should all work together to fulfil Guru Nanak’s dream of creating a holistic and harmonious society,” a statement issued by the CM’s office read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katha-and-pravachan-resonate-during-prakashotsava-festivities/articleshow/79497500.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Devotees take dip in Ganga, observe fast||PATNA: Despite the district administration’s appeal to the people to avoid visiting ghats, hundreds of devotees took a dip in the Ganga on the occasion of Kartik Purnima on Monday. Many of them even spent the night at the Digha, Gandhi and Kangan ghats and observed a daylong fast. Kartik or Tripurari Purnima is the fifteenth lunar day of the Kartik month. It is believed that Tripurari, an avatar of Lord Shiva, had killed three demons, Tripurasura, on this day. Kartik Purnima started at 12.47pm on Sunday and ended at 2.59pm on Monday this year. Boring Road resident Shweta Surbhi went to the Digha Ghat with her family on Monday. She thanked the administration for making necessary arrangements and ensuring social distancing norms. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper that a large number of cops as well as NDRF and SDRF personnel were deployed at the ghats. “Although the number of devotees was less compared to last year, all precautionary measures were taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19,” he added. There were also some devotees who did not go to the ghats in view of the pandemic. Anandpuri resident Janak Kishori said, “We preferred staying indoors to visiting ghats for performing the Kartik Purnima rituals.” Celebrations at Sonepur: The monthlong Sonepur fair may have been cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but a large number of people visited the Baba Harihar Nath Mandir to offer prayers. “Nearly 12,000 devotees visited the Baba Harihar Nath Mandir this year. They were made to stand in a queue and perform rituals at the entrance of the temple through a digital screen,” said Bumbum Pandey, a priest at the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-take-dip-in-ganga-observe-fast/articleshow/79497581.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Patna||100 monks participate in robe offering event at Gaya temple||GAYA: Nearly 100 monks, staying at monasteries of different countries, participated in the Maha Kathina Civara Dana (robe offering) function conducted by the Bodhgaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) at the Mahabodhi Mahavihara on Monday morning. This was the first event organized at the temple amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, around 500 monks from countries like Thailand, Myanmar, Bhutan and Sri Lanka used to attend the robe offering event, but no outsider was part of the function this year. BTMC secretary Nangzey Dorjee welcomed the monks to the function that was also attended by committee members Mahashweta Maharathi and Krishna Manjhi. Chief monk Bhikkhu Chalinda, who led the participants offering prayers under the Bodhi Tree, told this newspaper, “After the three-month ‘varsha vaas’ or rainy retreat of the monks, devotees offer them robes and other items. During the period from July to September, they stay indoors and meditate in their monasteries.” According to Buddhism, offering robes (‘civara’) to the monks is the highest form of donation. The chief monk added, “The ‘civara’ is offered to one of the 10 monks of the BTMC every year. It was given to Bhante Manoj this year because he followed the ‘varsha vaas’ tradition properly.” After the Maha Kathina Civara Dana function, the monks were offered ‘sanghdana’ (meal).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/100-monks-participate-in-robe-offering-event-at-gaya-temple/articleshow/79497153.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Third phase of NICED Covid vaccine trial to start tomorrow, volunteers raring to go||KOLKATA: NICED will start phase III of the clinical trial of Covid-19 candidate vaccine — Covaxin — on Wednesday, NICED director Shanta Datta said on Monday, adding that they have received encouraging response from people willing to volunteer. While urban development minister Firhad Hakim is likely to be screened to be a volunteer for the trial, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has been invited for the December 2 inauguration along with some “special guests”. The Governor, who is in Darjeeling now, is scheduled to reach Kolkata by train late on Tuesday. Hakim, who is returning to Kolkata from Siliguri, said, “Like I have said before, I will be delighted to be a part of this trial in whatever way I can. If I am found eligible to be a volunteer, I will participate wholeheartedly.” Datta said, “Those who are willing to participate in this trial are instructed to send their requests on the number +919836169622 or email at bbv152niced@gmail.com with their personal details (name, age, sex, address, contact number, email and co-morbidities, if any). According to trial protocol, a limited number of participants will be enrolled after screening. The participants will be contacted for further details over the given mobile/email. Participants’ enrollment will continue until the target number is achieved.” In a statement on Monday, NICED said, “The final analysis of the results will be available after one year follow-up post second dose of vaccination. The phase 1 and phase II trials have shown promising results. Currently, the phase III multicentric study, including 24 centres, has been initiated across India with a plan to recruit 25,000 volunteers.” It added that the Drug Controller General of India has selected NICED as one of the 24 sites. The phase III study at NICED will involve 1,000 volunteers — 500 getting the actual vaccine while the rest will get placebo shots. The volunteers will get the second shot about four weeks later. The basic criteria to volunteer includes being above 18 and having been free of Covid infection during the entire pandemic. The School of Tropical Medical (STM) is trying to roll out the phase III trial of Covid-19 candidate vaccine Covovax in the third or fourth week of December. US-based Novavax, Serum Institute of India and ICMR are sponsoring the trial at STM. The institute has been preparing itself even while it was awaiting a green signal from regulatory authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/third-phase-of-niced-covid-vaccine-trial-to-start-tomorrow-volunteers-raring-to-go/articleshow/79498580.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 1, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Online matchmaking fair for HIV positive||SURAT: Due to the global pandemic, a large number of marriages are being postponed while few are being organised minus the grand celebrations following the current restrictions. But amid the adversities around 250 HIV positive men and women, who are already living life with several limitation, will look for life partners on this World AIDS Day on Tuesday, in the first of its kind online matchmaking fair for positive people. Gujarat State Network of People living with HIV AIDS (GSNP+), an NGO, has been organising the matchmaking fair on a regular basis. “Earlier we used to invite participants to the city and they met each other personally. But in the current situation we have planned online events so that positive people can get a chance to start a new life even in this situation,” said Daksha Patel, secretary of GSNP+. For the online event, the organisers have invited applications from HIV positive people. Based on their selection criteria a video meeting will be arranged between the candidates. “Those matching requirements of each other will be put on video meetings during the fair and if they are interested we will arrange their future online meetings as well. Those expressing interest in specific candidates will be put in touch even after the fair, if required,” said Rasik Bhuva, president of GSNP+. The NGO will also arrange meetings of family members of the positive people during the fair. “I am excited about the fair since it will be my first experience participating in an online matchmaking fair. I hope I will find a suitable partner,” said a candidate. Earlier this year in a matchmaking event, over 900 candidates participated in the fair. Compared to the matchmaking fair held in normal circumstances, the participation is less but the organisers are hopeful of post fair inquiries. In the matchmaking, candidates not only from Gujarat but neighbouring states will also participate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/online-matchmaking-fair-for-hiv-positive/articleshow/79498088.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Vid farmers to be hit by tur imports extension||Nagpur: The central government’s move to extend the deadline for allowing tur imports is expected to be another dampener for farmers of the region. After facing heavy losses in cotton and soyabean, farmers of Vidarbha were banking on tur, the third major crop here that is intercropped with cotton and soyabean. Last month, the government extended the permission for imports till December 31. This means the fresh supplies of the pulses will continue to reach the market till January at least when fresh crop also arrives in the market. The move has already reduced the rates of raw tur in the open market by Rs 1,000 to 2,000 a quintal. As against Rs 8,500 to Rs8,700 a quintal tur is being quoted at Rs6,300 to Rs6,500 a quintal in the farm produce markets of the region. The fresh crop from the field is expected to arrive next month. Once the arrivals begin, the rates are expected to fall even below the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 6,000 a quintal, say traders as well as farm activists. This is because market will have enough domestic as well as imported supply. Meanwhile, there has been a marginal decrease in the retail price of tur dal, which is processed from raw tur. Tur is mainly imported from Myanmar with some quantities also coming from African nations. Farmers in large parts of the region are already complaining of a poor outlook in tur too. There are reports of delayed pod formation in the crops. A senior agriculture department official said the output may go down by at least 10%. Farmers on the other hand said the losses would be higher. Veteran Shetkari Sangathana activist Vijay Jawandhia said, “there are reports that market price of tur have even touched Rs 5,400 a quintal in some pockets in Wardha. This is a direct impact of extending the import deadline.” Jawandhia said once again the farmers will need MSP intervention for tur. If the new agriculture laws remove pulses from essential commodities, the government should also ensure farmers at least get a decent market rate. “The importers too have been in losses due to last minute extension in deadline. This led to uncertainty and importers booked trades at higher rates as they were under an impression that the deadline would end. The first deadline was till March 31, which was extended till October end and now till December 31. This has left the traders in exporting countries enriched,” said Arpit Jain of Himalaya Agro Impex, a pulses trading company. Sudhir Kothari, director of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) at Hinganghat, said rates were also down as National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED), which also procures tur, was selling the stock at this juncture. This has further increased supply. Kothari said the scenario was expected to impact the price fetched by farmers. Farmers said the rates need to be at least Rs 7,000 for them to get decent returns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-farmers-to-be-hit-by-tur-imports-extension/articleshow/79500332.cms||Shishir Arya
December 1, 2020||Allahabad||Sangita Srivastava takes charge as AU’s first woman VC||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University’s (AU) new vice-chancellor Sangita Srivastava has two firsts to her credit — she is not only the first woman to take charge of the prestigious post, but is also the first faculty member to head the varsity after it clinched the status of a central university in 2005. Assuming charge on Monday, Srivastava talked to media persons and said that all efforts would be made to restore AU’s former glory and, to improve the academic environment and quality of research. She replaced RL Hangloo who had resigned mid-tenure on December 31, 2019. After Hangloo’s resignation, RR Tewari had been looking after the university affairs as the officiating VC. Srivastava — who refers to herself as ‘Sangita Allahabadi’— said, “All efforts would be made to restore the lost glory of the institution by improving its National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking and the academic environment. We would also work towards promoting the quality of research done in AU and its constituent colleges. To make that happen, the task of filling up of around 1,000 vacancies would be treated as a priority.” There are over 550 teaching and around 400 non-teaching vacant positions at AU. However, she did say that the task would take another year and a half to be completed. She also said that the university administration would meet the needs of departments and laboratories, so that they could function better. “This would benefit students using these labs.” Srivastava said that she would like to have brainstorming sessions with faculty members so that provisions of the National Education Policy could be implemented effectively. “Such sessions would enable us to envisage the provisions of the policy, especially turning three-year undergraduate courses into four-year ones and enabling students to opt for both science and arts subjects.” Talking about the the issue of bringing back student unions, the newly appointed VC said, “I would take a call on this issue later. However, it is not good that a few students are fasting in protest during the pandemic.” “We would take a decision on whether online teaching should be continued after consulting higher officials,” she said. On the fate of AU’s Institute of Correspondence Studies, she said, “A decision has already been taken by the ministry and that decision is final.” Srivastava joined AU’s home science department in 1989. She became the head of the department in 2002 and continued till she was appointed as the VC of Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University on June 25, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sangita-srivastava-takes-charge-as-aus-first-woman-vc/articleshow/79498478.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vadodara||Intravaginal ring to ease pain of uterine fibroids treatment||VADODARA: A new drug deliver system (NDDS) invented by the researchers from M S University’s Faculty of Pharmacy promises and safer and painless treatment for women suffering from uterine fibroids, a common tumour faced especially by those of reproductive age. Dr Hetal Thakkar and her PhD student Arpita Patel have developed intravaginal ring, which ensures that the drug does not get distributed to other organs of the body The invention – ‘intravaginal ring bearing dehydrated rehydrated vesicles loaded with raloxifene hydrochloride and leuprolide acetate’ – has been granted an Indian patent. Currently, women with uterine fibroids have to either undergo surgery that involves hysterectomy (removal of uterus) or medical treatment in which hormonal drugs are given to them. “After hysterectomy women, cannot give birth to a child, so it is not preferred by those who wish to conceive. The other option is giving intramuscular injection which is not only painful but has sideeffects as the drug gets distributed in different organs too,” said Dr Thakkar. “Currently, the drug – leuprolide acetate – is given in form of injection leading to side effects. But ours is a safer alternative. The intravaginal ring holds the drugs at site for longer period of time and self-medication is also possible,” said Thakkar. It’s function is somewhat similar to the contraceptive vaginal rings used to prevent pregnancy. The developed formulation was evaluated using various in-vitro and in-vivo studies. The animal tests were carried out at the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences, New Delhi. “The in-vivo studies conducted on rabbits showed preferred accumulation of the formulation in the uterus and negligible distribution to other organs of the body,” said Thakkar. A part of the research work was carried out at Aston University, Birmingham, United Kingdom, where Patel had visited as a Commonwealth fellow while Thakkar as an academic visitor had interacted with leading researchers in the field of pharmaceutical sciences. Researchers are expecting pharma companies to carry out human trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/intravaginal-ring-to-ease-pain-of-uterine-fibroids-treatment/articleshow/79496629.cms||Prashant Rupera
December 1, 2020||Allahabad||New name might change Hyderabad’s bhagya: ABAP’s Mahant Narendra Giri||PRAYAGRAJ: Days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath questioned why Hyderabad couldn’t be renamed as Bhagyanagar, Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri on Monday supported the suggestion and said that it might be possible that a new name changes the city’s ‘bhagya’ (fate) too. UP CM Yogi Adityanath recently said that the name of the Telangana capital should be changed to Bhagyanagar while campaigning for Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the municipal elections. “We renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya and Allahabad as Prayagraj after BJP came to power in UP,” he had said during the road show. “ABAP extends its support to UP CM Yogi Adityanath. Mughals had ruled the country for centuries and changed the names of many old and traditional cities. As the name of Allahabad and Faizabad have already been changed, Hyderabad should also be renamed. I think, no one including All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi, would have any objection if Hyderabad’s name is changed into Bhagyanagar.” “Ho sakta hai ki Hyderabad ka naam badalkar Bhagyanagar kiye jane se Hyderabad ka bhi bhagya badal jaye (It might be possible that Hyderabad’s fate changes once its renamed as Bhagyanagar). The people of Hyderabad should also support any such change in the name,” said Giri. ABAP had recently praised the Adityanath government for bringing a strict law against unlawful religious conversions. Meanwhile, ABAP wished people on the occasion of Kartik Purnima and Dev Deepawali. “Kartik Purnima has a special significance in sanatan dharam. Devotees should follow Covid-19 safety protocol while taking a dip in ghats along Sangam and Ganga on Kartik Purnima,” Giri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/new-name-might-change-hyderabads-bhagya-abaps-giri/articleshow/79498433.cms||Kapil Dixit
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||For us, heritage means nation; for some, their own family: PM||Varanasi: Referring to Canada returning the idol of Goddess Annapoorna stolen from Kashi a century ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a veiled attack on those running the previous Union governments saying “some people think for themselves and their family only without considering the country’s interest”. “It is a matter of great happiness that the idol of Mata Annapoorna, which was stolen from Kashi a century ago, is coming home,” PM Modi said. “It could have happened much earlier had those in power in the previous governments made sincere efforts,” Modi said while addressing a gathering at the Raj Ghat here on the occasion of Dev Deepawali on Monday evening. “Humare liye virasat ka matlab hai desh ki dharohar, kuchh logon ke liye sirf apna parivar aur apne parivar ka naam (For us, heritage means country’s heritage, and for some people it is just their own family and family’s name. Our intention is to protect and conserve the heritage of the country,” said Modi asking the audience, “Am I doing right?” He added, “For us heritage means our culture, our faith, our values! For others it might mean, their idols and family photos. Had efforts been made earlier, the country could have got several such statues back a long long time ago.” The PM also spoke about the government schemes for the poor. He also motivated the audience to be ‘vocal for local’ in day-to-day life. It was a breathtaking view with over 11 lakh diyas twinkling on the ghats of the Ganga, and a sublime moment as the PM lit the first earthen lamp to start the celebrations of Dev Deepawali, when Gods are believed to descend to bathe in the holy river, in Varanasi on Monday evening. It was a transcendental experience for the people of Kashi who had never seen such a grand and glittering celebration on Dev Deepawali and one which even PM Modi will cherish for always despite having visited his parliamentary constituency many times till now. After lighting the lamp and addressing the gathering at Raj Ghat, the PM took a ride on cruise to watch the grandeur of Dev Deepawali along the 7.5km stretch of Ganga river’s bank. This year, the sand bed of the river on the opposite bank was also decorated extensively with sand art and illuminated with earthen lamps and lights. On the way, the PM witnessed the mesmerizing laser show at Chet Singh Ghat. After arriving at Ravidas Ghat, he paid floral tributes at the statue of Sant Ravidas. Earlier, PM Modi accompanied by chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Kashi Vishwanath temple to see the progress of work in KV Dham corridor project. He also offered prayers to Lord Vishwanath before proceeding to Raj Ghat. Later, he went to Sarnath to witness light and sound show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/for-us-heritage-means-nation-for-some-their-own-family-pm/articleshow/79500798.cms||Binay Singh
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||No compromise on testing of bulletproof jackets, Maharashtra DGP tells HC||MUMBAI: There cannot be a compromise on testing bulletproof jackets, the state told Bombay high court while justifying rejection of jackets meant for use during operations of anti-terror and anti-naxal units, such as Quick Response Teams, Force One and Gadchiroli police. The director general of police’s office reply came on a petition by UP defence company MKU Pvt Ltd, which bagged a Rs 16-crore contract in March 2017 for 5,000 jackets with 10% side plates. The tender was modified in August 2017 for 4,614 jackets. MKU supplied 4,614 jackets in lots of 500 on nine days. From each lot jackets were randomly selected for ballistic evaluation at Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL)), Chandigarh, and three lots failed. “During ballistic evaluation of 4,614 BP jackets, 3,158 passed, while 1,456 failed,’’ the reply stated. MKU replaced the failed lots and supplied 1,456 jackets in a single lot in September 2018. The new jackets were divided into three sub-lots. From these sample jackets were sent for ballistic testing. One of three sub-lots failed. MKU was informed in May 2019 that a decision was taken to reject all three but it moved the high court to direct the state to accept the two sub-lots and retest the third sub-lot meant for Force One, saying CFSL did not follow qualitative requirements and trial directives and fired eight instead of six shots. The reply stated that eight shots were permitted for testing on hard armour panel. “Initially, six shots were fired for testing on HAP. As the velocity of two shots was not detected, those shots were declared unfair. Hence two more shots were fired,’’ it added. Declining to retest the rejected lot of replaced jackets, the reply said ballistic tests were conducted as per QR and TD by ballistic experts in the presence of MKU’s representatives “Also, it is not rational to examine the same material again and again which has failed,’’ it added. DGP’s office also said 1,456 jackets supplied in a single lot were rejected as the hard plates were of same size, material and make. “The material of BP jacket is a life-guard and life-saver for officers, and there cannot be a compromise on quality of bulletproof jackets... Thus, lives of policemen can’t be put at stake by using material which has failed ballistic evaluation tests twice,’’ it explained. The reply said MKU was informed in May 2019 about non-acceptance of 1,456 jackets but it had not taken them back. It urged HC to direct MKU to take them back as “it has occupied space”. The judges on November 5 took note of the state’s delay in replying to the petition. Assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan undertook to submit it before the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-compromise-on-testing-of-bulletproof-jackets-maha-dgp-tells-hc/articleshow/79499242.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 1, 2020||Varanasi||Those who have duped farmers for decades now misleading them: PM||VARANASI: Accusing opposition parties of fear-mongering about the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Monday that those who have duped farmers for decades in the name of minimum support price (MSP) and farm loan waivers are now trying to mislead them about these laws through their canards. Invoking the Ganga, the PM said that he can say from the ghats of the holy river that the steps have been taken with an intent which are as pious as the 'Ganga Jal'. "But some farmers are skeptical as they have been duped for decades," he added. Addressing a function organised in Khajuri village to mark the inauguration of six-lane conversion of Varanasi-Prayagraj National Highway-19, Modi said: “When governments make policies and laws, it is natural that there will be some questions about them. However, in the past few years, we are seeing a new trend. Earlier, people protested against a decision but now, the protest is not on the decision but on doubts and falsehoods spread about the decision, about what could happen in future. There is propaganda that the decision may be correct but in future nobody knows what will happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/those-who-have-duped-farmers-for-decades-now-misleading-them-pm/articleshow/79498905.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Kumaun University to give online provisional degrees||DEHRADUN: The Kumaun University, Nainital, has decided to give an option of online provisional degrees to the students. The option is available only to those students who have passed from the university in 2016 or after that. The students can download the e-provisional degree after paying a nominal fee for it. This decision has been taken after many graduates who were applying for teaching jobs in the state education department were unable to claim their provisional degrees this year due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, the university has also made some changes in the criteria for the PhD admission in its campus. The university will give 80% weightage to written exams and 20% to the interview form next academic year onwards. Previously, the marks ratio was 70:30 with 30% weightage given to the performance in the interview. The university’s advisory committee which took the above decisions also decided to honour those students who will present a commendable result from their research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaun-univ-to-give-online-provisional-degrees/articleshow/79497628.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corporation work hit with staff’s way blocked||NEW DELHI: A large number of field workers, domestic breeding checkers and sanitation staffers in municipal corporations comes from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. In the wake of the farmers’ blockades at the city’s borders, they are finding it difficult to commute and the corporations have started facing problems in carrying out their work, besides losing daily toll revenues. Several sanitation superintendents have reported that that some workers are facing problems in commuting, reporting late and asking for leave. A similar situation was observed in April when the border movement was restricted by the neighbouring NCR districts, fearing the spread of Covid-19 from Delhi. Unlike then, however, smaller border points are open this time. The civic bodies draw 15-20% of their workforce from the rest of NCR, and if the blockades continue, field work will be impacted, many officials said. A senior official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation said more than 540 workers under him came from neighbouring states. “Many of them are coming several hours late and some have even reported that they can’t commute. We are hoping that things will not linger on, otherwise alternative arrangements will have to be made,” the official said. Another official said that during the April restrictions, arrangements were made in several community centres for such employees’ stay so that disinfection drives and other anti-Covid operations didn’t get impacted. “But these community halls were not popular among employees. Later, we had to introduce special allowances for employees who could make their own arrangements and get reimbursed from the corporation,” another official said. Both Tikri and Singhu borders fall under the jurisdiction of North Delhi Municipal Corporation. A senior official said some workers were indeed facing problems at the borders but there were also some habitual offenders. “We have no mechanism to check if a grievance is genuine. We are managing the situation,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-work-hit-with-staffs-way-blocked/articleshow/79500357.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s Covid bed occupancy at 36%||VADODARA: With the steady rise in Covid-19 cases being detected in the city and district, the number of persons under treatment has also increased. The administration has geared up for the situation by increasing the number of Covid-19 beds significantly. Officials said that with the spike in new cases, it was expected that the number of cases under treatment would also increase and hence the administration was planning to increase beds in advance. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 Vinod Rao said that the city and district were on the rising curve of the second wave and we needed to be very cautious. He said that people should adhere to all guidelines. The data shared by Rao revealed that on Monday, the occupancy of beds stood at 36%. Also, the occupancy of Covid ventilator beds stood at 39%. “The graph shows that the we are fully prepared in advance with adequate hospital beds and ventilators,” said Rao. A revised order notifying hospitals and their capacity was brought out by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) on Monday. This included both free and paid beds in government and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-ncov-bed-occupancy-at-36/articleshow/79496655.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kanpur||UPSIC likely to set up hosiery cluster, facility centre in city||KANPUR: The hosiery industry of the city may get a boost as Uttar Pradesh Small Industry Corporation (UPSIC) is contemplating to set up a hosiery cluster and facility centre in the city. It may be mentioned that Federation of Hosiery Manufacturing Association (FOHMA) recently handed over a list of around 30 cloth stitching and garments manufacturing units to the officers concerned. Several industrialists, attached with the hosiery industry, have expressed their desire to establish an ultra modern lab at their units. According to sources, during the Corona pandemic, it was the hosiery industry which had given the maximum employment to the people. A hosiery entrepreneur Balram Narula and the FOHMA general secretary said that several workers could work together in stitching clusters. The ultra tech machines could produce complete products at one place, they said. As Kanpur is the third biggest hosiery industry center in India, therefore, people associated with this industry, have demanded setting up of stitching clusters. Manoj Banka, president, Northern India Hosiery Manufacturing Association, stated that at present around 2000 small and medium stitching units were working in the city employing around 50,000 workers most of whom were working in thread, knitting, cutting and finishing . “The hosiery industry which is free of any pollution can double its production if it gets proper place inside the city where a large number of women too can get suitable employment”, Banka said. Executive engineer UPSIC Prabhat Bajpai stated that a flatted factory was going to be raised at Dada Nagar industrial area, and the industries department had asked to submit a proposal for establishing a cluster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/upsic-likely-to-set-up-hosiery-cluster-facility-centre-in-city/articleshow/79499307.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kanpur||3 poachers held in Banda for killing wild boars||KANPUR: Three wildlife poachers were arrested on Sunday in Banda district for killing wild boars using country bombs. The authorities also recovered one quintal of meat of wild boars, besides an SUV from their possession. Raghvendra Pratap, Jamuna Prasad and Raju Kushwaha, of Tatam Maharajpur were trying to smuggle wild boar meat to Punjab and Kerala when they were apprehended, forest officer MP Gautam said. “The arrested men are professional wild life poachers, who used to make pickle of wild boar meat and smuggle to various parts of Punjab and Kerala. They used to sell one kg of wild boar pickle for Rs 2,000 there. They used to plant country-made bombs entangle with a piece of buffalo flesh in forest cover. Once the wild boar bite piece of flesh, the bomb explodes and kills it,” he said. He added, “Many other of their aides got information about the raid and are currently on the run. However, soon we are likely to arrest them. Going by the huge quantity of seizure of wild boar meat, it is clear that there are many others involved in the illegal activity. More details will come to fore during interrogation of three arrested poachers.” Wild boar is a protected species under the Indian Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. The poachers used to procure explosives from the people involved in mining trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-poachers-held-in-banda-for-killing-wild-boars/articleshow/79499373.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Amravati MLC poll: One seat, 27 candidates, 35,000 voters||Amravati: The stage is set for the election of one seat to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from Amravati Division Teachers’ constituency on December 1. Around 35,000 teacher voters will decide the fate of 27 candidates in the fray by exercising their franchise at 77 polling booths across five districts of Amravati Division from 8 in the morning to 5 in the evening. Despite the presence of Shiv Sena and BJP in the fray for the first time, the contest is expected to be multi-cornered in view of the strong candidature of candidates from different teacher organizations. Division of votes is expected due to the high number of candidates and polling is also expected to be around 60%. Sena’s sitting MLC Prof Shrikant Deshpande seems to have an edge over his rivals due to support from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) which saw a host of ministers actively campaigning for him. On the other hand, BJP’s Dr Nitin Dhande is banking solely on party cadres as he has no experience of teacher issues. He did not make any major announcements during campaigning. Dhande is the president of Vidarbha Youth Welfare Society which runs engineering and dental colleges besides a host of other schools and colleges. Employees have levelled allegations of coercion against the doctor. Sandeep Meghe, former president of the society, questioned Dhande’s credentials as a teacher at the dental college and alleged that the latter did not engage in a single lecture during his tenure yet got his full salary. Meghe further alleged that Dhande kept his party in the dark while seeking the ticket. Sangita Shinde-Bonde of Shikshak Sangharsha Sanghatana is the only female among the 27 candidates. She is expected to make a difference in the poll outcome as she has been taking up causes of teachers since eight years. Avinash Borde of VIJUCTA, Prakash Kalbande of Vidarbha Madhyamik Shikshak Sangh, Dilip Nimbhorkar of Lokbharti, Rajkumar Bonkile of Vidarbha Madhyamik Shikshak Parishad, Shekhar Bhoyar, Kiran Sarnaik and Dr Nilesh Gawande are the other strong candidates. Amravati district has the highest number of voters (10,386) followed by Buldana (7484), Yavatmal (7459), Akola (6480) and Washim (3812). Because of the Covid scenario as well as vacation, candidates faced difficulties in contacting voters who were spread far and wide across the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-mlc-poll-one-seat-27-candidates-35000-voters/articleshow/79500367.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Ex-chief secy of Goa sentenced to 2-yr jail for fraud, gets bail||Panaji: A special CBI court in New Delhi has sentenced former chief secretary of Goa R K Srivastava to two years rigorous imprisonment and Rs 35,000 fine in a case pertaining to the revival of a defunct housing society in Delhi using forged documents, the agency said in a statement. Later, he secured bail in the case. Srivastava was convicted for his involvement in the revival of Delhi-based Shree Radhakrishna Co-op Group Housing Society Ltd when he was the registrar of co-operative societies, New Delhi, the agency said. He was charged for entering into a criminal conspiracy with officials of co-operative societies, New Delhi, to revive the society on the basis of false/forged/bogus documents, CBI statement said. The court directed Srivastava and Padam Dutt Sharma, the then deputy registrar of co-operative societies, New Delhi, to undergo two years RI with a fine of Rs 35,000 each. It also sentenced three others—Subhash Chander and Mayank Goswami to undergo four years RI with fine of Rs 25,000 and Ashwani Sharma to undergo four years RI with fine of Rs 30,000—in the case. Following the orders of the Delhi high court, CBI had registered a case on October 26, 2006, against Chander and others. Earlier, a preliminary inquiry was registered. Investigation showed that Srivastava in connivance with Sharma and other accused were involved in the fraud, CBI said. After investigation, a chargesheet was filed against 12 accused in the court of special judge for CBI cases, New Delhi. Srivastava served as the chief secretary of Goa from 2014-16. He was given an extension in service twice beyond his superannuation as the state was hosting the Brics summit during that period. In January 2017, he was appointed as the state election commissioner. Srivastava resigned nearly a fortnight before the CBI court pronounced its verdict. When the bail application filed by Srivastava came up for hearing before the high court, the public prosecutor sought to file a status report in the case. The high court directed the public prosecutor to file it before the next date of hearing and adjourned the case to February 17, 2021. Srivastava has also filed an appeal against the order passed by the trial court directing him to undergo imprisonment. The CBI stated that the trial court convicted the accused and acquitted five others. Two accused have since expired.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-chief-secy-of-goa-sentenced-to-2-yr-jail-for-fraud-gets-bail/articleshow/79500394.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kanpur||Lawyer of Makhi rape survivor dies of multiple organ failure||Kanpur: Mahendra Pratap Singh, the lawyer of the survivor of Makhi rape case in which former BJP MLA Kuldeep Sengar has been convicted, died at Uma Shankar Dixit district hospital on Monday after a prolonged illness. Singh and the survivor had been injured in a car accident at National Highway 32 in Rae Bareli on July 28, 2019. Sengar had been booked for murder, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and criminal intimidation. The police FIR lists 10 persons including Sengar’s brother Manoj Singh Sengar, Sashi Singh and his aides in this regard. The rape survivor along with her lawyer and two aunts was on her way to meet her uncle who was lodged in prison. Both her aunts, however, had succumbed to their injuries immediately. Subsequently, the rape survivor and her lawyer Mahendra Pratap Singh were admitted to the Trauma Centre at Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) from where they were shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. While the rape survivor was discharged after two months, Singh was transferred from Delhi to the Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow in April. “Later, he was discharged from RMLIMS. At present, he was at our native place in Unnao,” lawyer’s brother Pinku Singh told reporters. He further said that after his condition deteriorated on Sunday night, they admitted him to Uma Shankar Dixit district hospital, where he passed away on Monday. “He was suffering from multiple organ failure,” he said added, “the deceased is survived by his wife and two sons, besides elderly parents.” To recall, Sengar had raped a 17-year-old teen in Unnao who had approached him asking for a job on June 4, 2017. On April 13, 2018, he was taken in by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for questioning. Allahabad High Court took suo moto cognizance of the case and ordered his immediate arrest by the CBI. First Information Reports (FIR) were lodged and Sengar was kept in judicial custody for a week. The CBI corroborated the victim’s charge of rape. He was booked under sections 120B, 363, 366, 376(1), 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and also under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO) Act. In December 2019, he was convicted of kidnapping and raping a minor. In August 2019, after facing massive public and political outrage, the state and the BJP-led Central government finally expelled him from the party. The suspension and later expulsion automatically disqualify him as a legislature. SP Unnao Sureshrao A Kulkarni, meanwhile, said: “On being informed by lawyer Mahendra Singh’s family about his demise, a police team was rushed to the hospital. After all legal formalities, body of the deceased was further dispatched to mortuary for autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lawyer-of-makhi-rape-survivor-dies-of-multiple-organ-failure/articleshow/79499331.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||CRRI suggests options to repair cracks on VIP Road||Nagpur: The Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), New Delhi, has suggested four rehabilitation options for VIP Road, where the cement road constructed some years ago under Phase-II of the Rs324 crore project has developed cracks. TOI had highlighted the horizontal and vertical cracks on VIP Road between Traffic Park Square and Alankar Square. NMC has withheld part payment of Rs40 lakh to the agency that constructed the VIP Road stretch. In a letter to NMC’s public works department, head and principal scientist (rigid pavement division, CRRI) Dr Rakesh Kumar has offered four rehab options. One option asks NMC to provide an ‘edge sub-surface drain’ adjacent to concrete pavement slab on each carriageway of the road. This provision may drastically minimize the rate of increase in cracking, crack width and overall deterioration of the pavement, by providing quick drainage to water infiltrating through cracks or by any other means. Other options include reconstruction of pavement using concrete 120mm paver blocks. A senior official from NMC’s PWD department said though the CRRI offered four options, the civic body will adopt the first one. Under this method, hot bituminous mix overlay with glass fibre grid technology will be used to fill the widening cracks. As per CRRI’s suggestion, a hot bituminous mix overlay with saw cut and seal on top of the joints with glass fibre grids as an asphalt interlayer. It has also suggested four steps to carry out repair over road cracks of this particular stretch, he said. The CRRI rehab options suggest NMC should first clean and seal the wide cracks with a good hot bituminous mix of proven performance, which is similar to one generally used in the geographical region of Nagpur. The filled bituminous mix shall be properly compacted and levelled, it reads. The CRRI, however, pointed out the pavement slab distresses are almost absent in VIP Road like joint breaks, corner breaks etc. After proper sealing and compacting the wide cracks, a layer of tack coat would be provided on the pavement slab. Over the tack coat, a high quality glass fibre grid as an asphalt interlayer will be used. This is used to delay the propagation of reflective cracks while acting as SAMI (Stress Absorbing Membrane Interlayer). The final step will include the tack coat applied geo-composite being overlaid with a 35mm thick high quality hot bituminous mix. The CRRI, however, suggested NMC to ensure a proper transverse slope is provided to drain out rain water. INFOBOX ERROR AND TRIAL METHOD * Hot bituminous mix overlay with glass fibre grid technology will be used to repair the cracks on VIP Road * Cracks will be cleaned, sealed with hot bituminous mix * A layer of tack coat (3-4mm) will be provided on the pavement slab * Over the tack coat, a high quality glass fibre grid as an asphalt interlayer will be used. Again glass fibre will be overlaid with a tack coat * Tack coat applied geo-composite will be overlaid with 35mm thick high quality hot bituminous mix of SDCA/DAC with PMB * Proper transverse slope will be provided to drain out rain water||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crri-suggests-options-to-repair-cracks-on-vip-road/articleshow/79500398.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||FIR against Amt MLC poll independent candidate, 3 teachers||Yavatmal: In the last leg of the election for the Amravati Divisional Teachers Constituency, the flying squad of Yavatmal filed an FIR against independent candidate Kiran Ramrao Sirnayak and three teachers of Shivaji Education Society, Washim, on Sunday night. The squad also seized 49 paithani saris, cash Rs27,000 and 84 pamphlets containing the election manifesto of the candidate from the house of a teacher in Arni tehsil of Yavatmal district. Returning Officer of Yavatmal has constituted a flying squad under the chairmanship of revenue circle officer Rajesh Nagalkar to oversee violations of model code of conduct by any candidate in the fray. They received a tip off that a few persons are distributing saris and cash to voters from a house in the vicinity of Dream Land City in Arni town. The squad raided the house on Sunday evening and seized 49 saris, Rs27,000 cash and 84 pamphlets of Kiran Sirnayak’s election manifesto from the house. Squad leader Rajesh Nagalkar later filed an FIR against independent candidate Kiran Sirnayak, his associates Khushal Rathod (51), Shankar Rohi (47) and Punjabrao Padgham (53), all teachers of Shivaji Education Society, Washim. The Arni police registered a criminal offence against the four, including the independent candidate, under relevant sections of IPC and People’s Representation Act 1951. Further investigation is being carried out by ASI Babarao Pawar of Arni police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fir-against-amt-mlc-poll-independent-candidate-3-teachers/articleshow/79500377.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Varanasi||PM Narendra Modi praises CM’s infra push, says UP being called ‘express state’||VARANASI: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath drew praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the fast pace of infrastructure development in Uttar Pradesh under his leadership. Appreciating Yogi after inaugurating Rajatalab (Varanasi)-Handia (Allahabad) national highway-19, PM said, “Three-four years ago, UP had only two expressways, and it is well known to all how infrastructure development works were done then is known. Yogi and his team have accelerated the pace of infrastructure development in the state and five mega projects are already in progress. Apart from Purvanchal and Bundelkhand expressways, the defense corridor is also being developed at a fast pace.” “Due to the efforts of Yogi Adityanath government in speeding up the pace of construction of highways and expressways, UP is now being called the express state,” the PM added. The PM has an emotional connect with Kashi and is reviving the glorious past of Varanasi by modern development of the city known for its religious and mythological prowess till now, Yogi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-praises-cms-infra-push-says-up-being-called-express-state/articleshow/79498925.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||Those who have duped farmers for decades now misleading them: Modi||Varanasi: Accusing opposition parties of fear-mongering about the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Monday that those who have duped farmers for decades in the name of minimum support price (MSP) and farm loan waivers are now trying to mislead them about these laws through their canards. Invoking the Ganga, the PM said that he can say from the ghats of the holy river that the steps have been taken with an intent which are as pious as the ‘Ganga Jal’. “But some farmers are skeptical as they have been duped for decades,” he added. The PM said that when farmers were used to being cheated by earlier governments, it was natural that they would doubt his government as well but asked why, if his government was spending crores on strengthening mandis and paying farmers lakhs of crores in MSP, would he want to dilute both MSP and the mandi. Addressing a function organised in Khajuri village to mark the inauguration of six-lane conversion of Varanasi-Prayagraj National Highway-19, Modi said: “When governments make policies and laws, it is natural that there will be some questions about them. However, in the past few years, we are seeing a new trend. Earlier, people protested against a decision but now, the protest is not on the decision but on doubts and falsehoods spread about the decision, about what could happen in future. There is propaganda that the decision may be correct but in future nobody knows what will happen.” “Jo abhi hua hi nahin, jo kabhi hoga bhin nahin, usko lekar bhram failaya jata hai (Misinformation is being spread about something which has not happened so far and is not likely to happen in future),” he explained. “When farmers see through their lies on one issue, they get busy looking for another lie. This is their job 24X7,” he said. Referring to reforms during his speech later in the evening at the Dev Deepawali celebrations, the PM while paying tributes to Guru Nanak on his 551st birth anniversary, said that he himself was a towering symbol of reforms. “We have seen that voices of protests are raised whenever there is an attempt to bring reforms for the benefit of society and the country,” he said. “But when these reforms start giving positive results, everything falls into place. This is the lesson we learn from Guru Nanak’s life,” he added. Assuring farmers that the new laws are not going to purge things which already exist -- MSP and mandis -- the PM said that they would rather empower farmers and give them newer options and an access to international markets. Giving example of ‘black rice’ from Chandauli, the PM said that it was sold for Rs 8,500 per quintal against the paddy MSP of Rs 1,800. He said that if a farmer had a buyer who would pick up produce from the field, make all transport arrangements and give a better rate, then why shouldn’t the farmer be free to sell his produce to him and get access to a bigger market. Hitting out at the previous government, the PM said that their schemes never reached the needy and instead of farmers’ profitability, somebody else’s profitability was ensured. “These people declared MSP but barely any purchases were made on its basis. They announced loan waivers but the benefits never reached small and medium farmers, he said, adding “they themselves have admitted that out Re 1, just 15 paise would reach the beneficiaries.” “Before 2014, the previous government purchased pulses worth Rs 650 crore in five years. In our five years, we purchased pulses worth Rs 49,000 crore. The same government purchases Rs 2 lakh crore worth of paddy, where we spent Rs 5 lakh crore. Against their Rs 1.5 lakh crore on wheat, we spent Rs 3 lakh crore,” he said. The PM added that Opposition also spread lies about the Kisan Samman Nidhi. “It was said that Rs 2,000 was being given as elections were round the corner and would be taken back with interest after polls. One state, which is talking on behalf of farmers right now, did not even allow it to be implemented. They feared that if the money reached farmers, they would start lauding Modi,” he said, adding “farmers of that state would be given this money back once we come back to power.” “Our government fulfilled the promise of stopping the black marketing of urea, for which farmers would be cane-charged in the past. Even in the time of Covid-19 lockdown we ensured proper availability of urea to farmers,” the PM said, adding that the other promise of fixing MSP at 1.5 times the cost as per the recommendation of the Swaminathan Commission was not only fulfilled on paper, but its benefits also reached the bank account of the farmers. “Rs 1 lakh crore has already reached their account,” he added. Modi said the government was answering concerns of farmers and providing solutions. We are confident that farmers who have doubts about farm reforms would also start taking its advantage to increase their income in future, said Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/those-who-have-duped-farmers-for-decades-now-misleading-them-modi/articleshow/79500824.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 1, 2020||Varanasi||PM opens 6-lane stretch of NH-19 between Varanasi and Prayagraj||VARANASI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday inaugurated the widened 72.644-km patch of Varanasi-Prayagraj NH-19 and said it will drastically cut the travel time between the two centres of pilgrimage. He also stressed that development of highways and other facilities in and around Kashi will provide farmers of east UP region access to overseas markets. Addressing a function at Khajuri village along the widened NH-19, Modi said, “It will reduce the travel time between the two cities from three to two hours. It will help in saving fuel cost as well as checking traffic congestion during Shrawan month and Kumbh fairs.” Recalling his first public meeting in Varanasi, he said, “In 2013, I had addressed a rally at this site when the highway was of four lanes and commuters used to suffer due to a huge traffic load, especially between Handia and Rajatalab. People travelling by road used to complaint about the problems they faced in this patch. The need for upgradation of this highway was not only felt for reducing congestion, but also to improve facilities for tourists and pilgrims as their movement increases at all those sites having better facilities,” he added. “Efforts to improve connectivity along with beautification of Kashi has started yielding results,” he said mentioning the unprecedented work done on new highways, pull-flyovers and widening of roads to reduce traffic jams in and around Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-opens-6-lane-stretch-of-nh-19-between-varanasi-and-prayagraj/articleshow/79498923.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Sanjay’s presence sparks tension at Necklace Road||Hyderabad: On the eve of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election, tension prevailed at Necklace Road when TRS party cadre took objection to BJP state president Bandi Sanjay’s presence at Necklace Road. They accused Sanjay of attempting to influence voters by distributing money. On Monday late night, joint commissioner of police (Central Zone) Viswa Prasad issued a press note in which he said: “It was an altercation between two political parties on the suspicion that Sanjay was moving in Necklace Road area with cash to distribute. The fact is that Sanjay came to Necklace Road for an evening walk. At about 8.30pm, police received information that he was moving on Necklace Road. On receipt of information, the inspector of Ramgopalpet police station along with his staff reached the spot and requested him to leave the place as it is an isolated place, and it is not advisable to move in the area’’. Later, Sanjay left the place after having snacks at an eatery. Meanwhile, on knowing about Sanjay’s presence, TRS local corporator Vijaya Reddy and her followers reached the Necklace Road. By this time, Sanjay had already left. They stopped the car of Sanjay’s follower. They reportedly damaged the car’s windshield. At one point, the car driver was also attacked. The corporators supporters allegedly attempted to pull him out of the car by holding his shirt. “Police reached the spot and tried to control them. In the melee, someone broke the windshield of the car with hands. The car has been removed from the area in order to protect the occupants of the car. All people who have gathered have been dispersed,’’ police said. A case was registered based on the complaint registered by the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjays-presence-sparks-tension-at-necklace-road/articleshow/79500400.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||CM: Auction, corp routes on table for mining restart||Panaji: After promising a “legislative and curative” solution for more than two and a half years since February 2018, when the apex court held the renewal of mining leases as illegal, the state government has brought to the table auctioning as one of the options — the same “solution” the Centre has been proposing from day one for the resumption of mining activities in the state. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state government would try to find a solution to the mining imbroglio either through the auctioning of leases or formation of a mining corporation, among other options. Perhaps for the first time, Sawant spoke of auction as a solution but soon added that the government is looking at other alternatives too. “The Centre is for auctioning mining leases,” Sawant said, adding that the auction would be conducted on an all-India level. “We will try to find a solution through auctioning as soon as possible.” Sawant, however, said the state government is concerned about what would happen to local workers if the leases are taken over by non-Goan companies. When asked whether Union home minister Amit Shah told the state that auctioning was the only option, Sawant said no. “We are exploring various alternatives,” he said, adding that the next 8 days will see “a lot of development” on the front. Former CM Manohar Parrikar had ruled out forming a corporation, saying it wasn’t a viable option for the government as it would “invite multiple problems”, but he also said auctioning is not the option. Former advocate general A N S Nadkarni had suggested the auction route to Parrikar as a solution to the mining imbroglio. With almost all the main political parties favouring the same old players to do mining in the state, the auction solution was pushed under the carpet Sawant said that the state is trying for a “second renewal” and hence the government’s review petitions. The CM said another option to restart mining is through the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act. A meeting was recently held between Sawant, Shah, Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi, petroleum minister Dharmenda Pradhan, advocate general Devidas Pangam and solicitor general Tushar Mehta. He said that meetings have been lined up for next week to discuss the restart of mining in the state. Sawant said that both Shah and Joshi are “positive” about it. “We are not concerned about mine owners. We are concerned about the local workers employed on those mines, truck owners, farmers, etc,” Sawant said. “We are concerned about the common man, and this is a government of the common man.” “Keeping in mind the resumption of mining activities in the state, we (also) have to come to a consensus about the solution to it,” he said. Later in the evening, Sawant met the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA), which, he said, will be called to the next meeting in Delhi. “We are awaiting a joint meeting being scheduled by the Union of India with the state government and industry in order to find a legally-prudent solution post considering legal and technical aspects of Goa mining,” GMOEA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-auction-corp-routes-on-table-for-mining-restart/articleshow/79500401.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Trichy||Age no barrier as three-month adult literacy campaign kickstarts in Trichy||Trichy: Parangi, 97, from Adavathur panchayat in Trichy district lived all his life as an illiterate, relying on others to read or write. Not being able to put his signature all these years, he has been using his thumb impression, but he has decided not to do it anymore.He has resolved to prepare himself by Pongal to learn to put a signature and also learn reading and writing. He was among the 712-odd people in his Adavathur panchayat who were encouraged by government school teachers to get back to learning. ‘Karpom Ezhthuvom Iyakkam’ – a scheme of the directorate of non-formal and adult education — has given him and many others in the state the opportunity to turn literate by breaking the age barrier. Under Puthiya Vayathu vanthor kalvi thittam – an adult literacy programme, illiterates above the age of 15 are identified in every village and trained to put their signature besides being taught to read and write. A state-level training was held in this regard at Bishop Heber College in Trichy for teachers last month, which was following by training for 16,244 volunteers to train illiterate people. Close to 800 such people were identified in Manikandam block alone in Trichy who will be trained at 40 learning writing centres for the next three months. “As per 2011 census, there are about 3 lakh people in Trichy district alone who cannot put their signature on their own. Such people are identified and given training,” said K Marudhanayagam, Manikandam block education officer (BEO). Centres with 20 people each would be formed to take classes in the evening by hiring volunteers, he said. School management committee and parents teachers association in each of the government schools were involved in the process of identifying people who cannot read or write. Data in the anganvadi centres and NREGA records was used to identify such people. A centre with minimum 20 people were formed and the formal classes began from Monday. V C Rameswaramurugan, director of non-formal and adult education, said the scheme will enable beneficiaries to put their signature, identify bus numbers and destination besides learning financial management. At the end of training, those who qualify the test will be given certificates from National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/age-no-barrier-as-three-month-adult-literacy-campaign-kickstarts-in-trichy/articleshow/79500825.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Rs45 cr to be spent on fortifying 20 police posts in Maoist-hit belt||Nagpur: The existing premises of 18 police posts in Gadchiroli and another two in Gondia, both eastern Vidarbha districts hit by Maoist violence, would be fortified through the Special Infrastructure Scheme (SIS) budget of Rs45 crore in the coming months. Around Rs2.5 crore have been earmarked for each police post in the heart of Maoist belt. Sanctioned in 2017 by the central government for states affected by left-wing terrorism, the SIS project was to be completed by March 2021. Due to lack of administrative approval, SIS could not kick off in Maharashtra. Now, barely a few months are left before the deadline for the project. The project will get 60% funds from centre and rest from state government. The project has two components; upgradation of Special Task Forces (STF) and Special Intelligence Bureau (SIB), and strengthening police post infrastructure. For the first component, around Rs12 crore budget was allocated and Rs45 crore for the police post fortifications. DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil said Rs7 crore have been spent in the first component of SIS to upgrade STF, which is the C-60 commando unit in Maharashtra, and also increasing the efficiency of the technical cells, which work to collect intelligence. “We created special facilities for improving fighting skills of C-60 commandos at the Central Training Centre at Kitali in Gadchiroli, and also improved infrastructure of the tech cell, which collect intelligence using modern techniques,” said Patil. On the fortification of police posts, Patil said tenders would be out as soon as administrative approval is received. “Towards the end of 2016, the then DIG Naxal range Ravindra Kadam and I, as SP then, had prepared a list of remote police posts in Gadchiroli and Gondia, where major fortification is required,” he said. “At present, remote posts like Hedri, Kotmi, Gatta (Jambhiya) etc in Gadchiroli, and Murkudoh and Piparkhadi in Gondia have boundary walls and morchas (surveillance or watch towers) for external security. But there are no facilities in the main police station building. At most places, police posts are operating from barracks, which would now be replaced with proper facilities like officers’ rooms, station house, lock-ups, armoury and so on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs45-cr-to-be-spent-on-fortifying-20-police-posts-in-maoist-hit-belt/articleshow/79500403.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 1, 2020||Kanpur||30,000 free mask distribution||KANPUR: The City’s local representatives, distributed free mask to people at Parade area on Monday. For the next few days the masks will be distributed to the poor and needy people. Informing this local corporator Mannu Rahman, claimed soon more such free mask distribution camps will be organised in other parts of the City. The event was attended by chief guests including SP east Raj Kumar Agarwal, besides `shahar Qazi’ Mansoor Saheb. “It’s an initiative by like minded people and we have a target to distribute around five thousand Mask daily in the City and hope that all needy people can avail the opportunity,” said corporator Mannu Rahman. SP and `shahar Qazi’ appealed people to join hands in the fight against the second wave of Coronavirus (Covid-19).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/30k-free-mask-distribution/articleshow/79499399.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Fear of Covid keeps people away from AIDS testing||Ponda: The number of individuals who got tested for HIV till October this year was almost 25,000 less than the corresponding period last year. While 71,301 samples were collected the first ten months of 2019, this year saw just 46,301 persons come forward. Officials of the Goa State AIDS Control Society (GSACS) said that fears of contracting Covid-19 led to lower numbers volunteering to get tested. This year has seen 164 persons test positive for HIV, as opposed to 233 last year. GSACS project director Dr Siona Gomes said that patients could not reach counselling and testing centres in as many numbers this year due to Covid-19. “Due to the pandemic, one-to-one counselling was not possible and same with testing. This has lessened the testing number from April onwards”, Gomes said. The 164 new HIV cases reported in Goa this year till October have taken the total number of HIV positive cases in the state to 17,513 since the first case was reported here in 1987. Over the eight months from January to August 2020, Goa witnessed 20 deaths due to AIDS, comprising nine women and 11 men. During the corresponding period in 2019, 11 persons lost their lives to the disease. Gomes attributed the reason for these higher number of deaths among patients to ignorance about the treatment required, as also the ongoing pandemic. “If a patient comes late for treatment (anti-retroviral therapy or ART), chances of their survival are lower,” Gomes said. “Moreover, after March, many people lost their livelihoods due to pandemic, which has even contributed to the falling immunity of patients.” HIV is prevalent in all parts of Goa. However, this year too, the majority of cases have been reported in the three coastal talukas of Mormugao, Salcete and Bardez. The sexual route has always been the predominant mode of transmission, followed by perinatal. Transmission through blood and blood products and infected syringes and needles is negligible in Goa, as per data compiled by GSACS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fear-of-covid-keeps-people-away-from-aids-testing/articleshow/79500406.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Parties busy devising booth management on poll eve||Hyderabad: Hours before polls open and a last-ditch effort to win as many seats as possible, all major parties were busy making strategies on polling booth management, especially to ensure all party supporters and their voters exercise their franchise and also keep an eye on their rivals, on Monday. Some parties and candidates have constituted their own surveillance teams to prevent other parties from distributing money and liquor. Major parties —TRS, BJP and Congress — have instructed their agents and local leaders to get voters to booths. TRS leaders have been told to ensure beneficiaries of the state government schemes such as Kalyana Lakshmi, Shaadi Mubarak, KCR kits, CMRF relief apart from pensions, to vote in the elections as even a few hundred votes matter in the victory of the candidates in the crucial elections. TRS has already assigned divisions to ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs and zilla parishad chairpersons for campaigning. The in-charges held meetings with local leaders on Monday. “The party in-charges have been holding meetings on day to day basis after they were appointed. On Monday, not only the in-charges but also TRS working president KT Rama Rao spoke to leaders of key divisions, where the other parties have some strength and likely to win, and gave them directions not to leave even a voter,” a senior TRS leader said. The TRS leadership reportedly told the local leaders the 24 hours before the polling was an important game-changer. “If you leave booth management now, the effort of all these days would go waste,” the TRS leaders were told. Some parties were suspecting that rigging might take place during the polling in some divisions and a political party reportedly did not get agents for some booths. BJP is mainly focussing on the seven to eight assembly segments where it has strength like Amberpet, Musheerabad, Jubilee Hills, Serilingampally, Kukatpally, Goshamahal and Malkajgiri. “Since the saffron party considers many educated, professionals and youth might vote for it, it is concentrating on their turnout. A team of 50 people in every division was created on increasing the voting per cent in the civic body elections,” a BJP office-bearer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-busy-devising-booth-management-on-poll-eve/articleshow/79500405.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Those above 50 will be tested in Phase-II of door-to-door survey||NEW DELHI: After completing the five-day door-to-door survey of 57 lakh people living in the capital’s Covid hotspots, Delhi government has embarked on a bigger exercise. The district authorities are now carrying out a nearly month-long door-to-door survey of all households. Apart from symptomatic people, those above 60 years, or above 50 years and with comorbidities, will be asked to undergo RT-PCR tests or at least a rapid antigen test. “The teams that carried out the previous survey in containment zones and Covid hotspots will conduct this screening exercise, too, but instead of five days, they have now almost a month as this will have to be completed by December-end,” a Delhi government official said. “While in the previous survey, RT-PCR tests of only symptomatic people were carried out, two more categories have been added this time. The first category is of those above 60 years and the second category is of those above 50 years but with comorbidities like diabetes, high blood pressure etc,” he said. “The structure of the screening, however, remains the same and other high-risk groups will be screened too,” he said. “District authorities have already ramped up RT-PCR testing, apart from rapid antigen tests, and those identified during the screening will be directed to the nearest dispensary for tests. Although RT-PCR tests of all three categories will be preferred, the scale and feedback will also be considered,” he said, adding that already more than 30,000 RT-PCR tests are being carried out in the city and the current infrastructure may not be able to handle more. “Those who have already tested positive at some point of time earlier will be excluded from testing again. However, the effort will be to test others in the targeted category through RT-PCR but if the scale is too high or the sample size goes beyond the testing saturation point, we would have to use rapid antigen tests,” he said. The official said that ramping up testing didn’t only help in identifying and isolating positive cases but also instil a sense of responsibility and awareness. “A large number of people getting tested has contributed to effective containment and fewer cases,” he said. The third wave of the novel coronavirus cases in Delhi seems to be ebbing with the number of cases and the positivity rate declining every day but Delhi government is implementing a host of measures to further lower the numbers and keep them low. “The district authorities are further strengthening containment zones through strict surveillance and perimeter control,” the official said. “Random checks are being made at residences of people recuperating in home isolation, and in case of violations, police action is initiated.” “The authorities are also carrying out aggressive awareness campaigns and enforcement drives to penalise those not wearing masks in public places or violating other norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/those-above-50-will-be-tested-in-ph-ii-of-door-to-door-survey/articleshow/79500427.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||Three arrested in Rajkot Covid hospital fire case||RAJKOT: The Rajkot police on Monday arrested Dr Prakash Modha, chairman of Gokul Lifecare Pvt Ltd that runs Uday Shivanand Hospital, Vishal Modha and Dr Tejas Karamt, in connection with fire that left five Covid-19 patients dead. In all, five persons incldring these three and Tejas Motivaras and Digvijaysinh Jadeja have been bookeed under section 304 (A). The trio was arrested after they tested negative for Covid-19. They will be produced in the court on Tuesday. The arrest was made after special investigation team (SIT) formed by Rajkot police found several irregularities in ICU ward of the hospital. Meanwhile, the state government appointed former high court justice DA Mehta to inquire into the incident. Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state(MOS), home & law said, “As justice Punj was unable to spare time, the government has appointed justice DA Mehta for inquiry in to the fire case. The inquiry commission headed by Justice Mehta will complete inquiry in the next three months.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-arrested-in-rajkot-covid-hospital-fire-case/articleshow/79497636.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 cases cross 18k-mark||Vadodara: The total number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city since the outbreak of the pandemic crossed 18,000 on Monday. With 112 more persons testing positive in the city, the total number of cases reached 18,027. The new cases were reported during the 24 hours ending on Monday evening from 3,977 tests conducted in the city and district. Against this, 155 persons were discharged from hospitals as well as home isolation. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation also confirmed the death of one more person due to Covid-19. This took the death toll due to the disease in the city and district to 223, but the number does not include deaths due to comorbidities. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-cases-cross-18k-mark/articleshow/79496696.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 1.76L seized||Rajkot: A total of 924 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 1.76 lakh were seized from an MUV and its driver arrested from Gondal Road in Rajkot on early Monday morning. Police said the accused, Ramesh Parmar (32), said that one Dharmendrasinh Chudasma, a bootlegger based in Shapar-Veraval, had ordered the liquor supply which he had brought from Rajasthan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-1-76l-seized/articleshow/79497589.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Tussle between DFF, ESG over Iffi opening ceremony venue||Panaji: There is an ongoing tussle between the directorate of film festivals (DFF) and the state government over the venue for the opening and closing ceremonies of the upcoming 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi). While the DFF wants the event to be held at a lower-capacity auditorium like the one at Kala Academy, the state government is pursuing the idea of hosting the ceremonies at the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Stadium in Taleigao as usual. Officials of the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) have been left fuming as they said DFF has handed them a long list of guests, and the state government is worried that observing norms such as social distancing may not be possible at a venue like Kala Academy if guest numbers run into several hundreds. “Every day, the number of rooms being asked to be booked for guests by DFF is going up,” a source said. “The guest list is increasing. It seems like DFF only wants to blame it on Covid-19 when it comes to the expenditure they are supposed to bear. They bear the cost for the opening and closing ceremonies and they want us to have it at Kala Academy’s auditorium. But when it comes to all the other expenditure on which the state is spending, they are not willing to cut down.” In a normal year, the Goa government spends around Rs 17 crore to host Iffi, including hotel rooms and other hospitality involved for the guests listed by DFF. Due to the pandemic, Iffi is being hosted in Goa from January 16 to 24, 2021. State officials are worried that the DFF is cutting too many corners where the opening and closing ceremonies are concerned. “At the Kala Academy auditorium, if a handful of cameramen from media organisations stand before the stage to film it, they will end up creating an obstruction in the frame for the live streaming. Also, DFF wants to have minimal stage décor. Though far fewer numbers may be present physically, lakhs will be watching the event through live streaming, and how would a drab décor look to those watching it,” said the source. ESG vice-chairman Subhash Phaldesai, however, said only that at present, the plan is to host around 300 to 400 guests at the Kala Academy auditorium for the opening ceremony on January 16, and that other proposals for the venue are also under consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tussle-between-dff-esg-over-iffi-opening-ceremony-venue/articleshow/79500409.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 1, 2020||Goa||Home-delivery of HSRP? Firm pitches idea to transport dept||Panaji: Vehicle owners may no longer have to move out of their house, in the midst of the pandemic, to complete their high security registration plates (HSRP) fitments. The contractor, Real Mazon India Ltd, will submit a proposal to the transport department this week for home delivery of HSRPs. “Once it is approved, vehicle owners need not come to the fitment centres, or even the cash collection point, for HSRP booking. We’ve undertaken these measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19,” Real Mazon India Ltd’s assistant general manager, Biswajeet Mukherjee, told TOI. Currently, vehicle owners can either book for their HSRP online or visit the cash collection centre stationed at their respective RTO. Following this, text messages are sent to the customer to confirm payment and appointment date and time for the fitment. The customers then have to visit the fitment centre in their jurisdiction for installation. According to the new arrangement proposed by the firm, the customers need not visit the RTO for the booking nor the fitment centre for installation. “If they have the smart RC, they can complete the booking online on the Real Mazon website. After which, we will home deliver the HSRP and fit the number plate,” Mukherjee said, adding that this process is already being carried out for vehicles in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Following the transport department’s approval, the contractors plan to hire delivery boys to cater to the home delivery service. Post-lockdown, the number of appointments scheduled per day at each fitment centre were reduced in a bid to maintain social distance between customers. In October, the Porvorim fitment centre, meant for Panaji registered vehicles, had to briefly suspend operations after a few staffers tested positive for Covid-19. “If we keep reducing the number of fitments per day, there will be a huge backlog. The only step we can take to complete the fitments on time is through home delivery service.” Mukherjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/home-delivery-of-hsrp-firm-pitches-idea-to-transport-dept/articleshow/79500420.cms||Nida Sayed
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Belittling Nizam a gimmick to garner votes: Grandson||Hyderabad: Mir Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Mir Osman Ali Khan, the last Nizam of Hyderabad, on Monday criticised politicians for “tarnishing the image” of the erstwhile ruler during the campaign for GHMC elections. He said the Nizam’s name was dragged into electioneering during every poll for the sake of votes. “Whenever elections are held, my grandfather is criticized and his immense services towards his subjects are blatantly disregarded. Politicians should attract voters by their welfare schemes and by working for people rather than spewing unnecessary negative narrative on Nizam VII,” Najaf Ali Khan said. Taking strong exception to some politicians speaking of renaming Hyderabad and changing the “Nizam culture”, he said this was nothing more than a gimmick to attract attention. “These politicians cannot change the Ganga Jamuni Tehzeeb, which has been a part of the culture of the people of Hyderabad for centuries. My grandfather respected all religions and united them during his regime. Secularism was the hallmark of Nizam’s governance,” he said. He said under the Nizam, Hyderabad was better than most western countries. His massive donations were unmatched by any other ruler in all of history. “Calling a ruler who built Nims from his private purse a “looter” is sacrilege and an attempt to damage the image of the Nizam,” he said. Najaf Ali said those who use caste and religion to divide people for votes would never understand what kind of character and personality it requires to be secular. “Seen once in five years, these politicians malign the name of the man, who served this country and his kingdom for 37 years irrespective of caste and religion,”he said. He said the level of politics has taken a deep dive. “It is disheartening that the management of our country is in the hands of such leaders, who try to change facts and history according to their wishes,” Najaf said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/belittling-nizam-a-gimmick-to-garner-votes-grandson/articleshow/79500411.cms||Syed Akbar
December 1, 2020||Trichy||DYFI blocks train at Trichy junction in support of protesting farmers in Delhi||Trichy: The DYFI affiliated to the CPM blocked trains in Trichy railway junction in support of the farmers’ protests in Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws. A group of farmers also staged a protest in front of Trichy collector office on Monday.As announced by the CPM, more than 100 functionaries and cadres of the DYFI led by Trichy urban district president S Suresh marched towards the railway junction. But, the city police put up barricades and blocked the marching workers. A large number of police force was present at the location. But, a small group of cadres of DYFI workers sneaked into the railway platform and sat in front of the Coimbatore – Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdi express. Police arrested 84 protestors including eight women and lodged them in a marriage hall.Around 150 farmers owing allegiance to the Desiya Thennindiya Nadhigal Inaippu Sangam staged a protest at the entrance of the collector office.They demanded withdrawal of the farm laws of the BJP-led central government. They also reiterated their demand of interlinking rivers and minimum support price for agriculture produce. The farmers also demanded a ban on genetically modified seeds besides seeking action against those who denigrate farmers in the social media.The farmers printed their demands on papers and flew them as paper rockets to show as it will reach the prime minister. Police arrested 135 protesters and lodged them in a hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dyfi-blocks-train-at-trichy-junction-in-support-of-protesting-farmers-in-delhi/articleshow/79500826.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Trichy||Man caught circulating counterfeit currency||Trichy: A 32-year-old man was detained for circulating counterfeit currency notes in the denominations of Rs 100 in a weekly market at Thiruppaingneeli near Mannachanallur on the outskirts of Trichy on Sunday. The accused has been identified as S Pandian, 32, of Palakkarai in Trichy city. The Mannachanallur police said that Pandian used the counterfeit currency notes to buy a few things from weekly market on Sunday night. He was in the possession of 20 currency notes. He circulated 11 notes of Rs 100 denominations in the market itself in the pretext of buying things. A few vendors grew suspicious and intercepted him and informed police. Police took him into their custody. Preliminary enquiry revealed that he was unemployed and was staying in a mansion at Woraiyur in Trichy. Pandian told police that he found the notes abandoned on the bank of the Cauvery. With no headway, police are yet to register a case. Some of the vendors returned the notes to police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-caught-circulating-counterfeit-currency/articleshow/79500856.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||In biggest single-day jump in Covid deaths, 20 fall to virus||JAIPUR: Daily Covid-19 deaths rose again on Monday with 20 persons losing their battle against the virus in various parts of the state. This is an all time high for daily fatalities, taking the toll in the state to 2,312. The two worst-affected districts of Jaipur and Jodhpur together reported 10 deaths. Some 2,677 persons were also found infected on the day, with Jaipur once reporting a daily new record of 745 cases. This is the highest single-day jump in daily new infections in the state capital. The state’s overall tally rose to 2,68,063. But after 23 days of continuously going up, active cases took a dip and reported 28,653 cases on Monday. The figure was 28,758 on Sunday. With Covid cases escalating rapidly in the city, the health department has introduced daycare facility for patients to receive injectable medicines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-biggest-single-day-jump-in-covid-deaths-20-fall-to-virus/articleshow/79500442.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bhopal||Jyotiraditya Scindia meets Shivraj Singh Chouhan, says development on agenda; no talks on cabinet rejig||BHOPAL: Amid speculations over a possible rejig of Madhya Pradesh cabinet, BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia called on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at his official residence on Monday. Scindia, later denied any discussion on cabinet rejig stating it to be the chief minister’s prerogative and tweeted that the two leaders reviewed development works in the state. “I am meeting with the chief minister on issues of development and schemes related to it. There will be no discussion on the expansion of the state cabinet. It is the chief minister’s discretion,” Scindia told reporters. The meeting which was scheduled for 45 minutes, lasted for just ten minutes as Chouhan arrived late from Gondia in Maharashtra, where he attended the prayer meeting of his late father-in-law. Scindia had to wait for 40 minutes to meet the CM. The two leaders left for Orchha in Tikamgarh to attend the marriage function of the daughter of Union minister Prahlad Patel and later in the evening, to New Delhi. After the meeting Scindia tweeted with his picture with CM Chouhan. “The government of Madhya Pradesh is determined to fulfill every promise made to the people. Today, I met chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan and discussed development works.” However, sources said that though Scindia denied any possible cabinet rejig, speculations were rife that the two discussed the formal re-induction of Sindia loyalists, Tulsiram Silawat and Govind Singh Rajput into the cabinet along with the rehabilitation of two ex-ministers, Imarti Devi and Giriraj Dandotiya, who lost their seats during the recent bypolls. The date of cabinet reshuffle and restructuring of boards and corporations will be decided later. Silawat and Rajput had resigned just ahead of bpolls after completing six months as ministers without being MLAs. Scindia is also keen to ensure speedy construction of the ambitious Chambal Expressway (Progressway) and other projects promised by the BJP government ahead of bypolls in the region. The Rajya Sabha member also wants to take up the development of constituencies as several projects were left pending due to byelections in the state. Meanwhile, the Congress took a dig at the short meeting between Chouhan and Scindia. MP Congress Committee, media coordinator, Narendra Saluja said, "Scindia was given only 10 minutes by the CM after making him wait for 40 minutes. While in Congress Scindia made people wait, how much will his honour be compromised?” Before the meeting, Scindia also visited Gurudwara at Nadira bus stand to pay his obeisance.  He also reached the residence of BJP MLA, Krishna Gaur, daughter-in-law of former CM late Babulal Gaur and recalled his relations with Gaur family. Scindia also met BJP leader Girish Sharma and district president Sumit Pachauri during his daylong stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-meets-chouhan-says-development-on-agenda-no-talks-on-cabinet-rejig/articleshow/79500851.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi’s poor find it tougher to make ends meet as Covid-19 meets official apathy||NEW DELHI: Economic distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, coupled with the inadequate response of the authorities, resulted in hunger and food insecurity for the working poor and the marginalised communities in Delhi. The challenges they faced were narrated by slum dwellers, daily wage workers, homeless people and widow-headed households at an online hearing conducted by Delhi Rozi Roti Abhiyan on Monday. Soni, a mother of five, was hit hard by the Covid lockdown. The domestic help and her husband, a shop delivery person, together earned Rs 15,000 every month. “But we have been out of work since the lockdown,” said Soni. “Since I don’t have a ration card, I applied for an e-coupon but received food grains just once. We also have to pay a rent of Rs 3,500.” Having accumulated a debt of Rs15,000. Soni was forced to ask her Class XI son to start working and help the family survive. Chanchal, a resident of Lal Gumbad Camp in south Delhi, shared, “My three children keep asking for milk, but we cannot afford milk even for tea. They used to get the midday meal in school, but the schools have been closed since March.” Delhi government pays in lieu of meals a monthly Rs 78 per child in upper primary schools and Rs 94.6 per child at the primary level. Chanchal said her two older children received Rs 78 only in July, the youngest nothing till date. While Chanchal has found work recently, she earns a mere Rs 3,000 per month, not adequate for a family of five. Widowed Rani had bigger problems. After her son and daughter-in-law died, she found herself taking care of her grandchildren. Since the 62-year-old does not have a ration card, she is finding it difficult to feed the family. “I am old and can’t move much. Since I am susceptible to the infection because of my age, the households where I was a domestic worker asked me not to come,” she groaned. “Seeing me helpless, my 14-year-old grandson has started pulling a rickshaw.” Of more than 50 people who spoke at the public hearing, most said they had put the education of their children on hold for want of smartphones for online classes or because of lack of money for data costs. Several handicapped pavement dwellers from Mazaar Park spoke about their own unique difficulties. Women staying in shelters for the homeless talked about food insecurity, particularly after Delhi government discontinued the scheme for free cooked meals in June. Pooja, who lives in a shelter near Bangla Sahib Gurdwara in central Delhi, complained how the food department had refused to accept her application for a ration card, insisting she show them her electricity bill even when she explained to them that she was homeless. Many others reported similar roadblocks in getting a ration card because they had no address proof, Aadhaar card or other identity papers. DRRA executives said Delhi government and the central government should immediately launch a programme to provide rations to the needy irrespective of whether they possessed a ration card or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/citys-poor-find-it-tougher-to-make-ends-meet-as-covid-19-meets-official-apathy/articleshow/79500505.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 1, 2020||India||Uttarakhand mulls ending scheme that gives Rs 50k for inter-faith marriages||DEHRADUN: One of the first states to have passed a law against ‘love jihad’, Uttarakhand may end monetary benefits extended to couples who had an inter-faith marriage. The move is being mulled after the state government got into a sticky situation recently when the social welfare department issued a press release providing details of 18 couples in one district alone (Tehri) who had benefited from a scheme which provides Rs 50,000 for inter-faith marriages. Uttarakhand had in 2018 passed the ‘Freedom of Religion Bill’, entailing a two-year jail term for anyone found guilty of religious conversion through force or allurement. With it, Uttarakhand had joined states like Odisha, MP, Chhattisgarh, HP and Gujarat to have the anti-conversion law in one form or the other. Read AlsoIn Haryana, Muslim youth converts to marry Hindu girlAt a time when the Haryana government is thinking of bringing in a law against ‘love jihad’ cases in the state, a Muslim boy from Yamunanagar district has converted to Hinduism to marry a Hindu girl. The boy (name withheld) changed his name before marrying the girl in a temple in accordance withRecently, when the social welfare department issued the press release outlining benefits given under the scheme to inter-faith couples, questions were raised by a section of people who alleged that the government was promoting ‘love jihad’ by continuing with such schemes. CM TS Rawat was quick to order a probe into the matter. Sources said the state administration, in a fix now over the issue, is mulling dropping the financial assistance for inter-faith marriages. It is likely to continue with the monetary assistance for inter-caste marriages though. When asked, state urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik told TOI, “The scheme was brought in during the time of the Congress government when Uttarakhand was part of Uttar Pradesh in 1976. Again, the Congress government when in power in 2014, raised the amount from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 for inter-religion marriages. However, when we came up with our Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 and it was cleared in the state assembly, the scheme became null and void.” Read AlsoUttar Pradesh files first case within hours of getting anti-conversion lawHours after UP’s ordinance against “forced” religious conversion came into effect, a 22-year-old man from Bareilly was booked for “threatening to kidnap” and convert a 20-year-old woman — a girl he knew from school who is now married to someone else. The FIR was filed on the basis of her father’s“The scheme has been scrapped but if there is still some confusion, it will be sorted out soon,” he added.The opposition Congress attacked BJP, saying it is “misleading people yet again.” Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “The scheme had been in existence even before the formation of the state and has not been scrapped and still continues. Secondly, even if the scheme is scrapped, how can one prevent two persons hailing from different religions from marrying, as it is a right provided by our Constitution?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-mulls-ending-scheme-that-gives-rs-50k-for-inter-faith-marriages/articleshow/79501311.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 1, 2020||Vadodara||Prankster sending ambulances to harass people finally arrested in Vadodara||VADODARA: People in Angadh, Ramgadh and Nandesari villages will now heave a sigh of relief as police nabbed a 24-year-old man who had gotten on everyone’s nerves through his obscene messages and prank calls. Praveen alias Ashwin Rawal, who was arrested in January too for sending an ambulance to a woman’s home saying that her daughter is about to deliver a baby, had started making similar prank calls once again after he was released on bail after eight months. Police said that this time he had crossed all limits as he must have sent ambulances dozens of times. “He would either say that a woman is about to deliver a baby or that a Covid-19 patient is to be taken to hospital,” said a cop. In the case of pregnancy calls, the 108 emergency staff would return, but the villagers faced a tough time convincing them that there was no Covid-19 patient. Rawal also used to send obscene photos and hurl abuses at men on WhatsApp. “There were also complaints that he used to make comments on married women putting them in an embarrassing situation,” the cop added. Lately, he had also started making prank calls to Nandesari police station and hurl abuses. Cops too were harrowed by his frequent calls, on a daily basis. “We knew that it was him but he was not found at his home, so we tracked him to Changodar in Ahmedabad on the basis of his mobile phone’s location,” cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/prankster-sending-ambulances-to-harass-people-finally-arrested/articleshow/79496716.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP leader and Rajsamand MLA Kiran Maheshwari, 59, no more||JAIPUR: BJP leader and Rajsamand MLA Kiran Maheshwari (59) lost her battle with Covid-19 and passed away at a private hospital in Gurugram late on Sunday night. Maheshwari had disclosed she was positive on her Twitter account on October 28. After initially being treated in Udaipur, she was shifted to the Medanta hospital on November 7 due to health complications. Sources said that she was stable until a day ago, but her condition worsened in the last 24 hours. She had some underlying health conditions and some of her organs had collapsed due to the impact of the virus which resulted in her death, reports said. Maheshwari started her political career in 1985 and went on to win a term in Lok Sabha and three consecutive terms in assembly from Rajsamand. Her body has been flown to Udaipur and the last rites will be held on Tuesday. Reports said that she contracted the infection while holding back-to-back meetings with party workers as she was in charge of municipal polls in Kota. Born on October 29, 1961, in Ratlam, Kiran Maheswari entered public life at the age of 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-leader-and-rajsamand-mlakiran-maheshwari-59-no-more/articleshow/79500475.cms||Shoeb Khan
December 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Pay Rs 1,000 for not wearing a mask, night curfew from 10pm to 5am||LUDHIANA: If you don’t wear a mask at a public place, you will have to shell out Rs 1,000 as fine from Tuesday. Besides, night curfew will be imposed between 10pm and 5am, with some exemptions. The police have decided to intensify the challaning drive to tighten the checks. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said, “In the wake of the directions of the state government, night curfew will be imposed from 10pm to 5am and the no-mask fine has been hiked to Rs 1,000. The police teams will de deputed in markets and at chowks to challan the violators.” “On an average, 250 challans are issued daily to those not wearing a mask. Cops have been directed to intensify the checking drive and issue double or triple challans daily. The Covid-19 situation is under control, but people have to understand that the pandemic guidelines must be followed. Residents should either wear a mask or face action,” he added. There are some exemptions for night curfew. “For medical emergencies, residents can go out. Also, movement on highway is not restricted. For instance, if people are travelling from one city to the other, they will not be stopped. Vehicles ferrying essentials and raw material will also be allowed movement,” he added. There is no need for a pass to get these exemptions. “People just have to justify the reasons to the cops deputed on roads. Those working in night shifts are also allowed to move,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pay-rs-1000-for-not-wearing-a-mask-night-curfew-from-10pm-to-5am/articleshow/79497733.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Jagraon man dies, 90 contract Covid-19||LUDHIANA: A 32-year-old man of Jagraon died of Covid-19 and 90 residents tested positive on Monday. As per the local media bulletin, the patient died at a hospital in Amritsar. The day also saw two residents of Ferozepur and Mansa succumbing to the disease and 18 outsiders testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana toll tally has risen to 905 and that of outsiders to 382. To date, 4,58,221 persons have been tested. Of the 90 new cases, 26 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), eight positive cases’ contacts, 34 from OPD, 13 through tracing process, six healthcare workers, one severe acute respiratory infection case, and one pre-operative case. The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count was 22,824 and that of outsiders 3,240. So far, 21,037 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.17% of the total cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-man-dies-90-contract-covid-19/articleshow/79497739.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bhopal||Don’t lower your guard till Covid vaccine is available, says MP CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Monday that good-governance was the top priority of his government. Referring to spurt in coronavirus cases in some parts of the state, he said that winter provides conducive conditions for virus to breed and appealed to people not to lower their guards. It's heartening that a vaccine could be soon available, but till that happens, people should not show laxity and observe all precautions as Covid-19 protocol prescribes, he said. Chouhan also appealed to Coronavirus patients under "home isolation" not to come out of their houses. The government will not spare any effort to properly treat every Coronavirus patient, but they should exercise caution, he said. The chief minister further sought cooperation of the people of the state in making an "Atma Nirbhar MP" and requested them to buy things produced in the state, in the country and if possible their own village and mohalla. He said welfare of poor and farmers was our target and interests of common people would always be safeguarded. He further said that the state government was restarting CM Helpline and Samadhan Online to make them effective tools of grievance redressal as it was envisaged to be. Defending the agri reform laws passed by Parliament, he said the MP government supports the laws and would always work in the interest of the farmers. Chief minister was addressing people of the state over Doordarshan, AIR and social media platforms. Chouhan saikd he would, himself, make surprise inspections to examine how effectively those schemes were being implemented at the grassroots and what problems are being faced by the people in deriving benefits of the schemes. He further said that his government was committed to eradicate the mafia and action against mafia was being carried out all over the state. A campaign to identify persons engaged in adulteration of edibles has also been undertaken, he said. Chouhan again referred to the proposed law against "love jihad" and said girls are lured or threatened into wedlock and then she is pressured to convert. Her life turns hellish. A Bill will be introduced in the state assembly in the next session so that such practice could stop and women's honour was protected. There would be provision of stringent action against People indulging in such nefarious activities, he added. Supporting agri reform laws, he said Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, had changed laws in the interest of the farmers. They will get freedom to sell their crops wherever they want. They will get remunerative prices against their crops at home and have multiple choices. They may get good prices for their crops at the time of sowing itself. Minimum support price (MSP) and sale of crops at Mandi would continue. "We stand with these laws aimed to ensure a good deal to farmers with all our strength", he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dont-lower-your-guard-till-covid-vaccine-is-available-says-shivraj/articleshow/79500861.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Stay away from poll booths: Health dept to Covid patients||Hyderabad: Anticipating a surge in Covid-19 cases during the GHMC polls process, health authorities reiterated that Covid-19 patients and people with symptoms should not visit polling booths, even as Telangana reported 593 new cases and three deaths. “While Covid-19 patients can use the postal ballot option and are also allowed to vote by adhering to all the safety norms, it is best to avoid going to the booths,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. "Though the number of cases has come down drastically, we need to be careful during the elections. We are advising political parties to ensure all Covid precautions," he added. While the recovery rate in the state has improved to 95.74%, the health department has urged denizens to exercise caution. The overall toll rose to 1,458, while the caseload stood at 2,69,816. As on Sunday, there were 10,022 active Covid-19 cases in the State. Data of the health department officials, a total of 33, 040 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the State between Saturday and Sunday. The data released on Monday also revealed 1,058 persons recovered on Sunday. The GHMC limits saw 119 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stay-away-from-poll-booths-health-dept-to-covid-patients/articleshow/79500502.cms||Moulika.KV
December 1, 2020||Bhopal||With three golds & two silvers, women make MP proud in national sailing championship||BHOPAL: Making the state proud, women players of Madhya Pradesh Water Sports Sailing Academy won three gold and two silver medals at the YAI Senior National Sailing Championship-2020 organised by the Yachting Association of India in Mumbai. Expressing happiness over MP’s performance, sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia lauded the players. “This is the first time since the Corona period when women players of the Water Sports Sailing Academy gave such a brilliant demonstration of their talent and made Madhya Pradesh proud by winning medals,” Scindia said. Academy’s star player Harshita Tomar bagged the gold medal for Madhya Pradesh while performing brilliantly in the laser radial event of the Senior National Sailing Championship organised between November 21 to 27 at the Indian Naval Watermanship Training Centre Mumbai. In the 49er Fx event of the competition, academy players Ekta Yadav and Ritika Dangi bagged gold medal while the pair of Sheetal Verma and Vanshika Parihar bagged a silver medal for Madhya Pradesh. In the 470 Mixed Class Event, academy player Shraddha Verma and player from Morena Ravindra Sharma won a gold medal and the pair of Uma Chauhan and former academy player Sonu Jatav of Dindori won silver for Madhya Pradesh. Seven women players of MP Water Sports Academy took part and all seven of them won medals by performing brilliantly in the Senior National Sailing Championship.  Director sports Pawan Kumar Jain said that the players of Water Sports Academy brought glory to the state by winning five medals including three gold. The players took part in the championship under the guidance of Arjuna Awardee, chief instructor of Water Sports Sailing Academy JL Yadav and assistant instructor Anil Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-three-golds-two-silvers-women-make-mp-proud-in-natl-sailing-cship/articleshow/79500864.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Trichy||‘Twister’ threatens shallot production in Perambalur||Trichy: Shallot farmers in Perambalur district are facing a threat from twister disease affecting the crop’s productivity for the third straight year. Claiming that there is no proper guidance for mitigating the infection, the farmers said that twister disease will impact the production capacity as well as the pricing of shallots in the state since Perambalur is the leading producer.Since 2018, shallot farmers in Perambalur claimed that twister disease caused by a pathogen is taking a toll in the yield. The infected crop will shrivel, droop down and wither, while the small onion bulb will decompose before the harvest. Its ability to aggravate and spread to other plants due to waterlogging and wet weather condition makes the disease most danderous, as monsoon is underway. The shallot cultivating belt in Perambalur district noticed the disease for the first time in 2018. Since then, as the farmers use the harvested shallot as seed for the next cycle, the disease is continuing to impact the productivity.Farmers said that they do not have a proper pesticide to cure the disease as twister disease can only be prevented and curtailed from infecting the entire crop. While organic farming offers a cure, a solution made using fish waste, jaggery and papaya, only a few farmers go for it due to poor awareness. Another solution suggested by organic farmers is to cultivate multigrain crops a month before raising shallots.“The multigrain crops should be mowed and mixed with the soil, while preparing the field for shallot cultivation to enhance the soil nutrients,” Mahendra M Manivaasan, managing director, WEFSA Farmers Producers Company, said. The method was proven effective by the farmers’ group. Once infected, twister disease can reduce the yield by 20% to 100% per acre, the impact will be visible from 40 days of the crop cycle, farmers said.“Awareness was created among farmers but a few are not following our instructions,” a district horticulture official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/twister-threatens-shallot-production-in-perambalur/articleshow/79500865.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 1, 2020||Bhopal||Six infants die in Shahdol hospital, MP CM orders probe||BHOPAL: The death of six infants at Shahdol district hospital between November 27 and November 30 has triggered alarm in the administration. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took serious note of it and ordered an investigation on Monday. If doctors and medical staff are found guilty, they should be punished, Chouhan said. Officials of the women and child development and health have been told to survey infants in the area and bring them to hospital in time if they show signs of serious illness. Shahdol divisional commissioner Naresh Pal, who joined office on Monday, said, “Six infants have died since November 27. I was informed that primary investigations have revealed these children were pneumonic and were brought to hospital late. We are ascertaining if any of their parents were Covid-infected. Officials have been told to identify children who are ill and get them to hospital on time". The health department’s probe team is on its way to the hospital, about 500km from Bhopal. Chouhan discussed the deaths in a meeting with health minister Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary and senior officials at his residence on Monday evening, and ordered officials to ascertain if there was any negligence by health staff or lacunae in the infrastructure. “If there is any shortfall in facilities, it should be removed immediately. There should be proper arrangement of ventilators and other equipment. If necessary, specialists should be enlisted,” Chouhan said. “Health officials of the district, division and state capital should take this incident seriously. If necessary, send medical experts from Jabalpur to treat seriously ill children,” the CM said, adding that all hospitals should be monitored. While the focus is on Coronavirus, health department teams should ensure that other patients are not neglected, he said. Additional chief secretary-health Mohammad Suleman and principal secretary to the CM, Manish Rastogi, were present at the meeting. “Reports have been sought from the doctors of Shahdol hospital. Action will be taken against those found guilty of negligence,” said Suleman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-infants-die-in-shahdol-hospital-cm-orders-probe/articleshow/79500866.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Meerut||3 held after man killed in moving bus in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Police claimed to have solved the case where a 65-year-old man was recently gunned down by unidentified assailants in a moving bus over a property dispute on Bhopa Road in Muzaffarnagar. Three suspects, including a kin of the deceased, have been arrested on Monday, while one of them is still at large. Radheshyam - a resident of Morna village - was on his way to the city when the incident took place on the bus. SP (city) Satpal Antil said, "The son of Radheshyam's cousin had given a contract to eliminate him. The miscreants got around Rs 3 lakh for the job, so that he could get his share of property. The nephew, Rajeev, along with contract killers - Manoj and Arif - have been arrested. One Neeraj is still on the run. Further investigation is on." All the arrested men are residents of Bhopa area. They have been sent to jail after being produced before the magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-held-after-man-killed-in-moving-bus-in-muzaffarnagar/articleshow/79496750.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Now, test for Covid-19 at home with Jamia kit||NEW DELHI: At a time when a high number of Covid-19 cases are being reported, Jamia Millia Islamia researchers have developed a unique solution to ramp up testing. With India’s first RNA extraction-free workflow called Cas13 Associated Saliva-based & Smartphone Integrated Testing (Casspit), the researchers believe reliance on RT-PCR can be reduced as the new method gives test results within an hour. The kit, which has been developed by assistant professors Tanveer Ahmad, Mohan Joshi and Jawed Iqbal of Jamia’s Multidisciplinary Centre for Advance Research and Studies (MCARS), allows users to collect their saliva in a tube, add a chemical, heat the components and then use a paper strip to check if they are Covid-positive. Ahmad said, “This kit is a non-invasive method of testing where one has to just collect their saliva and it does not require any expertise. While RT-PCR is considered the gold standard of testing for Covid-19, even that gives incorrect results sometimes as it involves swabbing the nostrils. MCARS researchers have been working on saliva-based testing for a few years. This method gives users an opportunity to conduct tests on their own.” “This method is also cheaper as one has to just collect saliva, add a chemical, and then boil it for 10 minutes. After that, you can get test results through the Cas13 enzyme,” Iqbal added. The researchers said Casspit utilises the most sensitive and specific CRISPR-Cas system for diagnostics. When tested on more than 100 clinical samples, Casspit data was in 98% agreement with RT-PCR-based data. “Users can also use our app ‘Mi-Sehat’ through which they can click a picture of their paper strip. Using artificial intelligence, the app can give information about the severity of the virus and help users consult doctors without going anywhere,” said Ahmad. Co-researcher Mohan Joshi said, “This is a game-changer in healthcare and diagnostics in India. Casspit will be the first step toward developing home-based testing for Covid-19. The limitation of the earlier testing kit was that it required an RNA extraction step and a laboratory setup equipped with a PCR machine. However, Casspit doesn’t need instruments or a laboratory for the test.” The researchers said saliva-based Covid-19 testing has been approved by USFDA and they were optimistic about getting a quick approval from the authorities. Ahmad said, “Our team had applied at Indian Council of Medical Research to develop a similar prototype for detection of other infectious diseases in 2018. We are in talks with companies that deal in medical diagnostics and want to make it into a startup of Jamia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/now-test-for-covid-19-at-home-with-jamia-kit/articleshow/79500537.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 1, 2020||Pune||Senior traffic cops visit accident-prone Navale bridge to find and fix problems||Pune: Senior officers from the city traffic police on Monday afternoon visited all accident-prone spots in the vicinity of Navale bridge to come up with a plan to avert future mishaps.The inspection followed Sunday’s accident in which a speeding trailer truck ploughed through nine vehicles, killing three men and injuring six others.Sunday’s was the third major accident just in November — and fifth this year — on this stretch, prompting police to consider temporary fixes and long-term solutions. “There are two immediate solutions as of now — first, allow heavy vehicles to move only in the first (rightmost) lane of the Katraj-Dehu bypass and the second, install rumbler strips on a section of the bypass located a few metres from Bhoomkar chowk,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame said.He said the rumbler strips would serve the dual purpose of helping reduce the speed of the vehicles and jolting awake drowsy drivers. “Generally, heavy vehicles are allowed to ply on the third (leftmost) lane of highways. However, near Navale bridge, two wheelers and passenger vehicles either exit or join the bypass at many intersections, where they slow down. In all the accident cases, we have observed that out-of-control heavy vehicles, travelling in the third lane, crashed through these smaller vehicles,” he said.“Given this situation, heavy vehicles, while approaching and moving away from Navale bridge, should travel on the first lane (rightmost) lane, next to the median,” Shrirame explained. In meantime, the police will also formulate long-term plans on this stretch. We will soon call a joint meeting of all stakeholders — Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and others, to discuss long-term plans to improve the situation on the bypass,” joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve said.“This section of the bypass needs long-term infrastructural solutions to avert such type of accidents in the future,” Shisve further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-traffic-cops-visit-accident-prone-navale-bridge-to-find-and-fix-problems/articleshow/79499062.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ludhiana||2 of wedding band killed, 5 hurt in SUV-truck collision||LUDHIANA: Two members of a wedding band were killed and five of their co-workers injured, four of them seriously, after the sports utility vehicle (SUV) they were travelling in collided with a truck near Jalal Majra village, close to Machhiwara, on Monday morning. The deceased have been identified as Jasveer Singh and Jagpreet Singh, both residents of Rara Sahib. The injured include Davinder Singh, Rana, also residents of Rara Sahib, Makhan Singh and Pavitar Singh, both of Daburji village, and Tarseem Singh of Lampra. Police said the members of Deepak Wedding Band left Rara Sahib in the SUV to perform at a marriage function in Sehjo Majra near Machhiwara. When they reached near Jalal Majra village on Ludhiana-Ropar road around 7.30am, their SUV collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction. Passersby brought the injured out of the SUV, which was badly damaged in the crash. “It seems low visibility due to fog caused the accident. With much effort, the injured were brought out. Their families have been informed. Following the accident, the truck driver fled, leaving his vehicle behind,” said a cop. On reaching the spot, police called up ambulances and the seven were taken to Samrala civil hospital. Machhiwara police station SHO sub-inspector Rao Varinder Singh said, “Four of the seriously injured have been referred to PGI, Chandigarh.” A case has been registered against the truck driver under sections 304 A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving), 427 (mischief causing damage of fifty rupees or more) of the IPC. “We have information about the truck driver. He will be arrested soon,” the SHO added. Shiv Kumar Shivly, a resident of the area, said, “There is dense fog along the canal, beside which the road runs. The stretch has witnessed many fatal accidents in the recent years. The agencies managing the road should ensure adequate safety arrangements to check accidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-of-wedding-band-killed-5-hurt-in-suv-truck-collision/articleshow/79497762.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: No power tariff hike for 2021-22||AMARAVATI: In a big relief to electricity consumers in the state, the power utilities have decided not to propose any tariff revision in the coming financial year. The three electricity distribution companies in the state — APEPDCL, APCPDCL and APSPDCL — submitted the aggregate revenue requirement (ARRs) and proposed tariffs for retail supply business for 2021-22 to AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) on Monday. Notwithstanding a huge revenue deficit of Rs 11,911 crore estimated for next year, the discoms have decided not to go for any increase in retail tariff. They have not even proposed inclusion of new categories to the existing ones. In fact, the discoms have decided to waive off the minimum monthly charges for all low-tension consumers. Instead, they have proposed to collect a nominal fixed charge of Rs 10 per kilo watt per month on the contracted load. All the three discoms put together are purchasing nearly 68,369 million units of power per year at a cost of Rs 30,206 crore. The per unit power purchase cost has been estimated at Rs 4.42. Taking the network and other costs into consideration, the discoms estimated they would require Rs 44,030 crore to manage the supplies. Since revenues at the proposed tariffs is around Rs 32,119 crore, discoms will be left with a revenue deficit of Rs 11,911 crore. The discoms have also proposed to remove existing fixed charges of Rs 100 per kilo watt per month for function halls to discourage usage of diesel generators. However, they have proposed to shift poultry hatcheries, poultry feed mixing plants, aqua hatcheries and aqua feed mixing plants from agricultural to industrial category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-power-tariff-hike-for-2021-22/articleshow/79497758.cms||Samdani MN
December 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nagar Road areas’ water-rich, tanker-free hopes succeed||PUNE: Seven years is a long wait for water. But, there is reason to rejoice for citizens of the eastern parts of Pune along Ahmednagar Road, including Wadgaonsheri, Chandannagar, Lohegaon, Dhanori and Kharadi. They will now get assured water supply from the Pune Municipal Corporation that completed the Bhama Askhed pipeline, recently. Over 10 lakh citizens will benefit from the project. Water will come from the dam 50km away in Khed taluka via the pipeline. The project is another source of water supply for areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation. Times ViewThis is good news for people living in the eastern parts of Pune though they had to wait for seven long years. The Pune Municipal Corporation must now focus on completing the construction of storage tanks to enable efficient distribution of water. Local politicians have a greater responsibility in this and have to rise above party politics to ensure fast completion of the remaining work. Care must also be taken to prevent wastage of water because of leakage. The water distribution network must be regularly monitored, upgraded, and any seepage rectified on time.The city’s supply system sources water daily from Khadakwasla dam which is fed by Varasgaon, Temghar and Panshet dams. “This is good news. The Bhama Askhed pipeline is finally complete, and Vimannagar can now be tanker-free. But PMC must sustain the supply to every household. There are two large overhead tanks in our area, but they empty out quickly and are not filled regularly. We hope that the project helps maintain the supply to these tanks,” Vinayak Ragho, a Vimannagar resident said. Actual supply will start around December 15. Much depends on the second and final phase of testing that the Pune Municipal Corporation will start from Tuesday. Most of the civil work pertaining to laying of pipelines and the construction of the jackwell have been completed. Tuesday’s testing involves water supply from the jackwell to the water treatment plant. Next, the carrying capacity of the pipeline will be put through checks which will be completed in 10 days, after which water will flow through taps in households. “The project is complete. We will now check the pipeline. Leakage detection and testing the strength of the welding and other joints will be done,” Yuvraj Deskhmukh, a senior PMC official, told TOI. Other PMC officials said construction of storage tanks in the areas along Ahmednagar Road was underway at some places. Water will be distributed to various localities through these tanks. Wadgaonsheri resident Pradeep Mohite said the PMC must ensure adequate and equitable supply to all the areas. Lakhs would benefit from the new arrangement, he added. Good For Kondhwa, NIBM Areas Too Every year, the PMC area will get nearly 2.6 TMC water from the dam. Currently, the per capita water availability for the eastern areas is around 170 litre. It will which is likely to increase to 250 litre after the water supply is streamlined. The rest of the city will also gain, PMC officials said. Currently, Ahmednagar Road areas get water from the Cantonment water works. Once the Bhama Askhed supply begins, the 170MLD water from the Cantonment water works will be diverted to Kondhwa, NIBM Road and surrounding areas. The diversion of supply will depend on how well the new project works, officials said. Getting Rid Of Tankers The new supply system can help Ahmednagar Road areas under the PMC get rid of their tanker dependency. Another resident said the water situation in his society had improved somewhat over the past few years, but all large housing societies are still dependent on tankers. “If the water supply from Bhama Askhed is good, it can save our area crores of rupees. But distribution is important. There is only one large overhead tank in our locality, and the other one is still some way from completion,” Deepak Patil from Kharadi said. Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre said inadequate water supply has been a decade long problem for Ahmednagar Road areas. “This pipeline will solve it. The matter was followed up with the PMC, the state government and the district administration to ensure faster completion of the project,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nagar-rd-areas-water-rich-tanker-free-hopes-succeed/articleshow/79499053.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 1, 2020||Meerut||Meerut’s air quality ranks among ‘top six districts with worst AQI in India’||MEERUT: The air quality of UP's Meerut has become worse as it is now ranked among the top six districts in the country with the worst AQI. Meerut recorded AQI in the "very poor" category on Monday, and meteorological department experts said that if the wind speed continues to remain low, the district may soon get covered in a layer of thick smog. Notably, the air quality in the neighbouring areas is poor as well. On Monday, Meerut registered 341 AQI which was even higher than Delhi’s 318 AQI - in the "very poor" category. The most polluted district in the country on Monday was Ambala with 401 AQI. Ambala was followed by Ghaziabad (377 AQI), Bulandshahr (370 AQI), Baghpat (350 AQI), Greater Noida (349 AQI), Noida (346 AQI) and then a tie between Fatehabad and Meerut at 341 AQI. An AQI ranging 0 to 50 is considered “good” and “satisfactory” if it falls between 51 and 100. Similarly, from 101 to 200, it will be “moderate”, 201 to 300 is considered “poor”, 301 to 400 is taken as “very poor”, and above 400 is “severe”. Brij Mohan, Meerut Met in-charge, said, “Parts of the district reported smog on Monday as the wind speed was less and the pollutants remained in the atmosphere. High humidity of 92% was also observed, which further increased the smog.” The AQI takes into account five chief pollutants, particulate matter with a diameter less than 10 micrometres (PM10), PM 2.5, ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meeruts-air-quality-ranks-among-topsix-districts-with-worst-aqi-in-country/articleshow/79496769.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 1, 2020||Meerut||24-year-old labourer dies after he falls into boiler at sugar mill in Bijnor||BIJNOR: A 24-year-old labourer died after he fell into a boiler in a sugar mill in Bijnor on Monday. The deceased was identified as Ankit Kumar of Tisotara. He was working in Barkatpur sugar mill. According to police, he fell down while cleaning the boiler. He had sustained severe injuries and died on the spot. Police said the family members of the deceased have not filed any complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/24-year-old-labourer-dies-after-he-falls-into-boiler-at-sugar-mill/articleshow/79496760.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Chandrababu Naidu, TDP shedding crocodile tears for farmers, alleges YSRC||AMARAVATI: The winter session of the legislative council commenced on Monday with heated debate between the ruling YSRC and opposition TDP members. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana started the tirade, saying the TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu has no moral right to speak about farmers and their ordeals as it was he who had said that practising agriculture is a waste and had refused to pay compensation even to farmers who committed suicide. “Naidu had openly said that granting compensation to farmers would only increase suicides. He said in his book Manasulo Maata (‘My Inner Feelings’) that practising agriculture is sheer waste. The TDP has removed the book from the party’s website and also ensured that the book disappeared from the market,” said Botcha, asking TDP members to read Naidu’s book first before coming to the House. Taking objection to the minister’s comments, TDP member Nara Lokesh said Naidu never said that practising agriculture is a waste exercise, and dared Botcha to prove his allegations or quit the cabinet. Finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy interfered at this point, and asked Lokesh to bring the book to the House, adding that they were ready to apologise to him if they could not show Naidu’s utterances about agriculture in his book Manasulo Maata. He further said that Naidu, in his book, also said that power lines would be useful only to hang wet clothes if free power is given to farmers. “TDP ensured that the book disappeared from the market over fear of backlash from farmers. The same party is now shedding crocodile tears for farmers despite the government expressing its commitment to pay full compensation immediately after the completion of enumeration,” added Buggana. He said chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has categorically stated that the enumeration of damages caused by Nivar cyclone should be completed before December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-tdp-shedding-crocodile-tears-for-farmers-alleges-ysrc/articleshow/79497775.cms||Samdani MN
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Much at stake for TRS, BJP as Hyderabad goes to polls today||HYDERABAD: After a high-pitched and high-profile campaign for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) election, Hyderabadis will decide the fate of more than 1,100 candidates when voting takes place on Tuesday. Despite this being just a civic election, BJP deployed all its big guns – from Union home minister Amit Shah to UP chief minster Yogi Adityanath – to make its presence felt in the city. Leaders spoke of Rohingya allegedly being registered as voters, the apparent claim of falling Hindu population in certain parts of the city and demolition of NTR Ghat and P V Narasimha Rao Ghat at Hussainsagar. As a result, all parties abandoned talk of ‘bijli, sadak, paani’ for more emotive issues. During his only public rally on Saturday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao spoke of saving Hyderabad from what he called sectarian forces, besides raising other issues. Riding the momentum of the statehood movement, TRS had swept the polls in 2016, winning 99 of the 150 wards. It was followed by AIMIM with 44 wards, BJP 4, Congress 2 and TDP 1 ward (TDP, BJP contested as alliance partners). This time, however, BJP is putting up a spirited fight so that it can lay the groundwork for the future. The party is keen to become the main opposition in Telangana, challenge TRS in the 2023 assembly elections and also expand its footprint in southern India. It took on a more aggressive posture immediately after winning the Dubbak assembly bypoll. Factors such as hate speeches, KCR’s decision to go for early polls despite many parts of the city being ravaged by floods, distribution of Rs 10,000 flood relief, proposal to change the name of Hyderabad to Bhagyanagar, Shah’s assertion of getting rid of Nizam’s culture and handling of Covid-19 situation, among others, are likely to play a crucial role in the outcome. Interestingly, electronic voting machines (EVMs) will not be not be used in this election as the State Election Commission has decided to go with ballot papers. It was 18 years ago in 2002 that ballot papers were last used in Hyderabad’s civic elections. At the time, GHMC was called Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad and the mayor was elected directly by voters. Many observers feel that the turnout of voters could play a key role in deciding the final outcome this time. Although the city has 74.67 lakh voters, less than half of them vote. Polling percentage has not crossed 46% in past GHMC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/much-at-stake-for-trs-bjp-as-city-goes-to-polls-today/articleshow/79500875.cms||Roushan Ali
December 1, 2020||Pune||Residents serve langar, senior citizens celebrate Guru Nanak Jayanti virtually||PUNE: The Guru Nanak Jayanti celebrations on Monday were more private than public this year, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Individual households organized langar for a limited number of people, while following social distancing norms. “As the gurdwara was not serving langar, we decided to arrange it ourselves. Our group of volunteers pooled in resources and many donated money and rations for the food to be distributed,” Harpal Singh Birgi, a resident of Salunke Vihar, said. While some hosted a typical sit-down langar, other groups handed out packages of freshly prepared meals to those in need. “Langar is not about having a feast, it is about getting the chance to serve those in need. Many students were enthusiastic to help in distribution of these packets. It is not possible to set up a seating arrangement for langar on the road, so we decided to distribute packets outside our local gurdwara,” Gagandeep Kakkar, a resident of Pimpri, said. Footfall increased at gurdwaras in the city on Monday as many lined up for darshan and to participate in the rituals. “The Akand Path, a continuous recital of the sacred texts, was completed at 7am, and the queues for the darshan were continuous. Since then, we were only playing a taped ‘kirtan’ keeping in line with the government-issued SOPs. In the evening, prayers were held in the open area and nobody was allowed to go inside the gurdwara and sit. Only those wearing masks and adhering to all safety protocols were allowed to line up for darshan. No langar was served, though there were many groups who serving it individually. But, we gave individually-packed prasad portions to all the devotees who came,” Mohindev Singh Kandhari, the public relations officer of Gurudwara Guru Nanak Darbar (Hollywood Gurudwara), Camp, said. Senior citizens, who could not visit the gurdwara, celebrated at home virtually. “There are many apps that you can use to play ‘kirtan’ as well as the recitation of the Akand Path and many hymns. Many popular gurdwaras from around the world broadcast their rituals too. My parents are senior citizens and could not step out to visit the gurdwaras, so they participated in the celebrations virtually. We also made the traditional kada prasad at home and distributed it among neighbours,” Ramneet Kaur, a resident of Fatimanagar, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-serve-langar-senior-citizens-celebrate-guru-nanak-jayanti-virtually/articleshow/79499093.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Meerut||UP roadways bus catches fire, 52 onboard evacuated safely||MEERUT: A UP roadways bus caught fire reportedly due to a “short circuit” in Syana Kotwali area in Bulandshahar district late on Sunday night. The roadways bus, with 52 passengers on board, had left from Kaushambi depot in Ghaziabad and was on its way to Lucknow. The incident took place when the bus was passing through Bulandshahar after it had taken a detour due to traffic in Garh Mukteshwar, police said. “All the 52 passengers onboard were safely evacuated and there are no injuries or casualties. Alternate arrangements were made to drop the passengers,” a police officer said. This comes a day after a tempo had caught fire after an accident in Syana area. Two people, including the driver, were charred to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-roadways-bus-catches-fire-52-onboard-evacuated-safely/articleshow/79496794.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Meerut||Thousands take holy dip in Ganga in Bijnor||BIJNOR: Throwing the Covid-19 concern to the air, a large number of devotees took a holy dip in the Ganga on the occasion of Ganga Snan in Bijnor, even as the district administration had cancelled the famous Ganga mela to check the spread of the deadly novel coronavirus. Adjacent Garh Mukteshwar, however, wore a deserted look with a lockdown imposed in Hapur, and hence, devotees thronged Bijnor. The cancellation of fair, however, hit local vendors and traders badly. Though the administration had prohibited the Ganga Snan fair, permission was granted to bereaved families to perform “deepdaan” and other rituals. They prayed for the salvation of the departed souls. A large number of devotees, meanwhile, arrived at the Ganga banks at Vidur Kuti, Ganga barrage, Balawali, Ravali and Jaleelpur, among others, in Bijnor district and Tigari in Amroha district — mostly to perform “mundan”. As devotees used a large number of vehicles to reach the Ganges, it resulted in traffic jams at several locations on the Delhi-Pauri national highway and Bijnor-Chandpur road, throwing traffic out of gear. Bijnor district administration has, however, deployed a heavy police force to ensure the maintenance of social distancing and compliance with the Covid-19 guidelines. “We allowed devotees to perform rituals but had appealed to them not to congregate on the river banks, which they followed. There were symbolic congregations of people on the river banks as there was a drastic fall in the number of pilgrims visiting the Ganga,” said district magistrate Ramakant Pandey. Mohan Kashyap of Daranagar village, a local trader, said, “The cancellation of Ganga Snan fair dashed all hopes of local vendors and businessmen who lost an opportunity to earn money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/thousands-take-holy-dip-in-ganga-in-bijnor/articleshow/79496773.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||Two dupe Hyderabad-based traders of gold worth Rs 27 lakh||RAJKOT: Two fraudsters in Bhuj were booked on Saturday night for allegedly cheating three Hyderabad-based traders of Rs 27 lakh by promising them of getting gold at cheaper rates. Police said the accused, Hajivalimamad Kakkal and Altaf Jat, had taken Adarsh Jain (22), his father Anil Jain and uncle Bharat Jain, all residents of Bela locality in Hyderabad, for a ride with their dubious promise. According to the police, Adarsh had received a friend request in July from one Rushabh Mehta on Facebook who kept gold biscuits as his profile picture. Adarsh, at that time, was studying diamond rating at an institute in Surat. “Mehta told Adarsh that he was into gold smuggling and that he used to bring gold from Dubai and sell it with 20% discount. He introduced Jat as Pankaj Soni as his business partner and gave his number. Meanwhile Adarsh spoke to his father Anil Jain and uncle Bharat Jain, who expressed their willingness to buy the gold at cheaper rate,” said S J Rana, sub-inspector with Bhuj local crime branch. The accused told the victims to come to Bhuj to buy the gold. Hence, the victims went to Bhuj from Hyderabad on September 18 and put up at a hotel. When the victims called Jat, he told them to come to him in an autorickshaw the next day. Next day morning, when the victims were in the autorickshaw, Jat called Adarsh and asked him to hand over the phone to the rickshaw driver. He told the driver to take the victims to the Station Road in Bhuj. From the Station Road, the accused took the victims in an SUV to a residential society, the area the victims cannot identify, and introduced them to Kakkal as 'Mamaji'. Kakkal showed them gold biscuits and said that they would have to buy the gold at least worth Rs 42 lakhs. It was decided that Rs 27 lakh would be paid then and the remaining amount would be paid at the time of the delivery of the gold. “The victims returned to their hotel in the SUV along with the accused, collected Rs 27 lakh and got back into the SUV. The accused drove them through different areas of Bhuj, took the cash from them and then told them to alight from the vehicle, saying that they would make the delivery of the gold in Hyderabad,” said B B Vasava, inspector with Bhuj B division police station. After returning to Hyderabad, the victims tried to contact the accused, but to no avail. The accused had turned their cellphones off and remained incommunicado. Realizing that they had been duped, the shock proved fatal for Adarsh’s uncle Bharat Jain, who suffered a heart attack and died. When the victims arrived in Bhuj on Saturday, the police showed the photographs of the accused to them. The victims identified Kakkal and Jat. The police said that Kakkal is a history sheeter and that they have launched a manhunt for him and Jat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-dupe-hyderabad-based-traders-of-gold-worth-rs-27l/articleshow/79480361.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||People keep writing letters to MoEFCC on Mollem issue||Panaji: After a group of 39 scientists from Goa and Karnataka wrote to the Central government on November 14, raising concerns over the three linear projects running through Mollem’s forest in Goa, individual lawyers and scientists continue to write to the Union environment ministry seeking a cumulative environment impact assessment of the projects. Besides the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC), the lawyers have also written to Goa’s principal secretary raising legal issues concerning the Goa Tamnar power transmission line and substation project. “Clearances for the railway expansion and the transmission line projects are being sought in a piecemeal manner. This is a typical strategy used to create fait accompli situations by project proponents. All three projects are inter-state and require clearances from Goa as well as Karnataka,” research scientist Girish Punjabi has said. The scale of fragmentation will severely affect habitat connectivity for tigers and biodiversity if all projects are given the go-ahead without understanding the real impact on the eco-sensitive central Western Ghats, he has told MoEF.  “The clearance granted is in the name of Goa Tamnar but the contractor implementing the project on the ground is a different company. Will PFC Consulting Company (the contractor) be held accountable in case of non-compliance?” said advocate Prerna Venkatesh. The only mitigation measure suggested by the Goa Forest Department for a 15km long and 46m 400k/v transmission line through forests is to create an adequate number of water retaining structures for wild animals, said lawyer Sreeja Chakraborty, one of the lawyers who has written to the central government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/people-keep-writing-letters-to-moefcc-on-mollem-issue/articleshow/79500542.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Meerut||Two years after love marriage, man kills wife during altercation in Meerut||MEERUT: Over two years after their love marriage, a 25-year-old man killed his wife following an altercation, and later buried her in a nearby forest. The incident took place under the Saroorpur police station limits in Meerut. Accused Aamir was later arrested, and the body of the woman, Simran (23)—a resident of Delhi— was exhumed by the police. The matter came to the fore after the local police began their probe when they received a complaint from Simran’s family about her disappearance. They had alleged foul play by the husband. Based on the complaint, an FIR was filed under sections 498A (dowry harassment) and 364 (kidnapping with an intent of murder) at Saroorpur police station on November 28. Following the complaint, Aamir was detained and during interrogation, he confessed to his crime, police said. “The accused was arguing with his wife, but the situation took an extreme turn, and Aamir killed his wife by strangulating her. Later, to hide his crime, Aamir buried her body with the help of three of his friends,” a police officer from Saroorpur police station said. Police have also added sections of 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) against the accused. “Efforts are being made to trace the remaining suspects,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-years-after-love-marriage-man-kills-wife-during-altercation-buries-her-arrested/articleshow/79496784.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Driver dies, another injured in 2-truck crash on Southern Bypass||LUDHIANA: A man was killed and another injured in a two-truck collision on Southern Bypass, near BRS Nagar, early on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Darshan Singh, 49, of Deenewal village in Tarn Taran. He was driving one of the trucks. The driver of the other truck, who is yet to be identified, was manoeuvring a pothole when he ran into Darshan Singh’s truck. Even as the accident took place in the wee hours of Monday, police learned about it around 10.30am. Sarabha Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala said, “The sand-loaded truck of the accused was going from Verka milk plant towards Doraha. The truck of Darshan Singh was coming from the opposite direction. The initial probe suggests that the accused was trying to circumvent a pothole when his truck crashed into the other. Darshan Singh died on the spot. The accused too has suffered injuries and is admitted to hospital.” With the two trucks occupying the road and causing traffic snarls, commuters called up the police. The SHO said an FIR would be lodged against the accused after recording the statements of the kin of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/driver-dies-another-injured-in-2-truck-crash-on-southern-bypass/articleshow/79497795.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||L&T wants Telangana government in driver’s seat to keep Metro chugging||HYDERABAD: Though the TRS government wants to extend Metro Rail services from Raidurg to Rajiv Gandhi International Airport at Shamshabad, there is no clarity on the financial viability of the project. L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited (L&TMRHL), which operates the Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR), has written to the Telangana government about the 'severe financial stress' amid the pandemic-enforced lockdown but is yet to get any assistance from the state till date. However, while there seems to be no response from the government, sources have hinted that the functioning of the services would be more efficient if the state government completely takes over the project instead of it being a PPP project. It also highlighted the key conclusions of expected financial stress in the coming years which projects a loss of Rs 1,900 crore in the financial year 2020-21, cumulative losses amounting to Rs 12,000 crore over the next 10 to 12 years and a cumulative cash gap snowballing to Rs 18,000 crore over the same period, which is almost equivalent to the capital cost of the project. “It would become impossible to continue operations under such circumstances unless the government of Telangana steps in and provides the best possible financial support through a combination of measures (sic),” the letter added. According to the 2019-20 annual report of L&TMRHL, the company had suffered a net loss of Rs 382 crore in the last fiscal, while its total revenues stood at Rs 1,370 crore. This apart, L&T had incurred a loss of Rs 300 crore a month during the lockdown period till the resumption of services.  In the letter accessed by TOI from government sources, L&T wrote to chief secretary Somesh Kumar on May 28, 2020, about the severe financial stress. “Due to Covid-19, HMR operations were suspended for 169 days. Though inevitable, this situation caused serious financial loss to our business. Presently, our prime focus is to continue operations adhering to safety norms directed by the government to keep our passengers safe and healthy. However, to overcome the huge financial burden on us, we have requested help from government and financial institutions. We are exploring different options with all related stakeholders,” an official spokesperson of L&TMRHL said. When contacted, HMRL managing director NVS Reddy declined to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lt-wants-t-govt-in-drivers-seat-to-keep-metro-chugging/articleshow/79500883.cms||Moulika.KV
December 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Night curfew: With only 3 shubh mahurats till March, hospitality sector in a tizzy||LUDHIANA: With night curfew in place from December 1 to December 15 in Punjab, people, as is expected, are cancelling events already booked and postponing to later days. But, unfortunately, after December 15, the first quarter of 2021 has only three “shubh mahurats” (January 18, February 15 and 16) and the industry experts feel that there will be an extraordinary rush on these three days and a lull on the other days. According to Indian almanac, it is auspicious to organise marriages and other functions on these days. If they are unable to get auspicious days, people might have to postpone their functions till April and May when there are more than 20 options. The industry, which is already reeling under the cancellations due to the postponement of the functions booked already, fear further setback in the next three months. According to hoteliers and other businessmen associated with the industry, the only solution to rescue the industry and the people out of this problem is to extend the closing timing for organising the functions, which has now been fixed at 9.30pm from December 1. Speaking to TOI, Raj Aggarwal, president of Ludhiana Tent Dealers Welfare Association, said “The decision to impose night curfew in Punjab from December 1 is turning to be a big blow for the hospitality industry, as the deadline for closing of the hotels, restaurants and banquet halls has been kept at 9.30pm, due to which there is a lot of panic among the people who had made bookings for night functions with us. Close to 50% of the bookings have been cancelled and majority of these customers want to postpone their bookings to January, but unfortunately the “mahurat” to organise weddings and other functions is only on January 18, which is further complicating the situation, as a lot of families believe in the mahurat system to fix the dates. So, it is not possible for us to accommodate everyone on the same date that is why we are also confused about how to deal with this situation.” A leading garment manufacturer of the city, who wants to remain anonymous, said, “We had fixed the wedding of my nephew for December 14 and booking was also made at a lavish marriage palace, but ever since we came to know about the decision of the state government for early closure of hotels, banquet halls and marriage palaces from December 1, we decided to postpone the marriage to next month. The marriage palace and all other persons with which we had finalised arrangements like band, DJ and photographer agreed to adjust our advance payments for next date decided by us. But now we face bigger problem, as our family priest has suggested January 18 as the next available date as per “mahurat”, but on that date the venue has already been booked for someone else’s function. After that dates are available only in February, but we do not want to delay the wedding for that long.” According to Naman Aggarwal, an event manager from the city, “The problem of only three shubh mahurats in next three and half months has sent entire industry into a tizzy. Already, many functions have been cancelled as more than 70% events take place during the night in the city. Now, the problem is that we already have bookings for the auspicious dates in January and February, because of which it is not possible for us to accommodate the people whose bookings for December have been cancelled. I think depending upon the situation, a large number of people will have to postpone their functions till April and May, when there are more than 20 shubh mahurats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/night-curfew-with-only-3-shubh-mahurats-till-march-hospitality-sector-in-a-tizzy/articleshow/79497813.cms||Mohit Behl
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai has country’s deadliest roads||CHENNAI: The Union road transport ministry’s accident report 2019, placing three spots in Chennai as the country’s deadliest accident blackspots, seems justified. On top of the list is a 500-metre stretch on Chennai-Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road near Ambattur Telephone Exchange, where 166 deaths occurred in 755 accidents in the past three years. From a dysfunctional traffic signal (in front of the telephone exchange) to non-operational street lights, inadequate policing and potholes, it has almost everything that can cause accidents.  Every minute, around 70 traffic violations are committed at the traffic signal there, show videos shot by TOI. These include over-speeding, stop-line violations, jumping signals (near OMR Food Street complex), driving on the wrong lane and driving without safety gear like helmet and seat belts. All of these have been declared serious offences by the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, but when TOI visited the spot, police personnel were largely restricted to their booth even during peak hours as violations continued. S Suresh, an Ambattur resident for more than four decades, said CTH Road, narrow almost through its length, suddenly expands near the telephone exchange where motorists tend to speed. Also, huge potholes have been left unattended for months. The city traffic police, who after a study attributed the frequent accidents to bad road maintenance, urged to the highways department officials to relay it and install adequate lights. To expand the road into a six-lane highway, the government sanctioned ₹168 crore for a project that has been in limbo for years. A highways official said ₹100 crore was spent to lay a median for 22km between Padi flyover and Thirunindravur and widen some portions before land acquisition issues stalled the project. The situation at Tambaram Bypass near Porur toll gate and Nazarathpet junction in Poonamallee on Chennai-Bengaluru highway, the next two deadliest blackspots which together accounted for 943 accidents and 192 deaths in three years, is no different. Truckers passing through the Nazrathpet junction had filed a police complaint against the highway project director two years ago for poor maintenance, but nothing has changed. Official data shows the toll gate on the stretch, near Sriperumbudur, generates ₹30 lakh in revenue daily. “But hardly anything has been ploughed back for maintenance,” said D Singaravel, a retired government employee who lives at Vanagaram. At Porur toll gate, vehicles travelling on the wrong side and parallel parking (objecting vision of motorists) are common. A senior traffic police officer from Chennai (West) said that after the areas were declared blackspots, barricades with blinkers (for better night vision) were put up on stretches where motorists tend to speed. “At 10 locations, gaps between medians were sealed to ensure pedestrians didn’t cross,” he said. The government recently set up accident trauma centres near these locations and this resulted in fewer deaths in 2020, said a state road safety cell member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-has-countrys-deadliest-roads/articleshow/79499127.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Haphazard parking at Balewadi chowpatty upsets motorists||PUNE: Illegal and haphazard parking of vehicles outside the makeshift chowpatty at Balewadi is causing a chaotic situation with little space left for movement of vehicles along the carriageway. Despite complaints from local residents and motorists as well as action by the traffic police, the illegal parking problem continues on the stretch. TimesViewIt is ironic that the civic authorities are still to act on the complaints by residents about Illegal and haphazard parking of vehicles outside the makeshift chowpatty at Balewadi. The parked vehicles of the patrons visiting the food stalls eat into the carriageway of the Balewadi road and often cause traffic snarls. On weekends, the vehicles are even parked on the footpaths. Taxpayer’s money spent on redesigning the road and widening the footpaths in the area, under the Smart City project, will go down the drain if such illegal use is tolerated.According to motorists, no lane of the carriageway is available to drive past since patrons of the temporary eateries park their vehicles along the road. Coupled with wrong side driving, the nearly 500 metre stretch of Balewadi Road has become difficult to maneuver, say motorists. Local resident Pooja Agarwal said, “This stretch is immediately after one turns towards Balewadi from Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. It is a busy road. Two-wheelers, four-wheelers, autorickshaws and tempos are parked along the kerb, effectively blocking most of the carriageway. The problem is worse in the evening when people step out for dinner. Hundreds of vehicles can be seen parked here and action by Pune traffic police has failed to deter people.” Though the stretch has a wide footpath, parking space and two lanes of carriageway, motorists and local residents said that all the space has been taken over. Nikhil Kamble, a regular commuter along the stretch, said, “Apart from haphazard parking, another problem that haunts motorists along this stretch is wrong side driving. People drive the wrong way despite little carriageway space. Most motorists choose to ignore the wrong side driving in order to avoid fighting. However, if this is not controlled, there could be a fatal accident.” According to police inspector Prakash Mhasalkar from the Chatushrungi traffic division, a long-term solution for the menace would be sought soon. “I have recently taken charge of this division and I have received complaints about this issue already. I will conduct a visit to the spot to understand the issue and we will initiate action. We have a crane that will be pressed into service to ensure that this problem is resolved,” Mhasalkar explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reckless-parking-at-balewadi-chowpatty-upsets-motorists/articleshow/79499141.cms||Rujuta Parekh
December 1, 2020||Trichy||Lack of funds puts spanner in works for SPCA||Trichy: The Trichy chapter of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA), which was officially registered last month, is yet to begin functioning. The delay in identifying a land for setting up the organisation and rescue centre and the lack of a source for raising funds has impeded the functioning of SPCA. SPCA organisations aim to ensure animal welfare and prevention of cruelty to animals. After being delayed by a year, the organisation was officially constituted and registered last month by roping in at least eight government departments including animal husbandry and the civic body. However, sources said that SPCA, intended to ensure the coexistence of animals and humans, has not conducted an inaugural meeting so far. In the absence of funds to rescue animals and a shelter to accommodate the animals rescued, SPCA has been unable to go about its operations. Activists opined that SPCA requires at least 10 acres of land considering the need to rescue animals in distress and impound the stray cattle loitering on city roads. Similarly, the society needs funding from volunteers and good Samaritans every month to feed and treat the injured animals. As a result, the troubles involving humans and animals such as stray cattle on the road causing accidents continue unabated. “Large animals such as cattle straying on roads and injured in accidents are could not be rescued as SPCA is yet to get an exclusive land for a shelter. I accommodate 82 rescued animals and birds in my house,” G Ramakrishnan, honorary animal welfare officer, AWBI said. “We are coordinating with the district administration to avail land for establishing an animal shelter for SPCA. For now, Palakkarai veterinary polyclinic can serve as a home for SPCA. Soon adequate land will be earmarked,” Dr S Esther Sheela, joint director, animal husbandry said. The department also plans to mobilise CSR funding to keep the SPCA running, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/lack-of-funds-puts-spanner-in-works-for-spca/articleshow/79500882.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers’ protest rally soars occupancy in Delhi flight||Ludhiana: The farmers’ protest at Delhi has proved to be a blessing for the lone flight to city, as its occupancy has increased from 20-30% before the rally to 85%. Seeing the response, Airport Authority of India (AAI) has requested flight operator Air India to increase the frequency. The number of incoming passengers in Delhi-Ludhiana flight was between 14 and 19, the figure in the outgoing flight was between 13 and 25 on November 16, 17 and 19. Even on November 24 at the start of last week, the number of incoming passengers was 19 and outgoing 24.But after the start of farmers’ protest rally to Delhi on November 26, there was a jump in occupancy of the 70-seater flight with 44 passengers arriving from Delhi and 57 leaving. On November 28, the number of incoming passengers jumped to 64 and 65 left for Delhi from Sahnewal airport. The airport officials said even in Monday’s flight, the number was beyond expectations. Indicating that the rush was due to farmers’ stir, airport director SK Saran said it was for the first time after the lockdown and subsequent unlocks that the number of passengers soared. He said AAI has requested Air India to increase the frequency of flight from four days a week to all seven days. Airport officials said from Tuesday, the flight timings were also being changed from morning to afternoon hours. They said as the road journey to Delhi had become problematic, people were finding flight the best mode of transport. To make air travel safe, they were taking all precautions and the flight was sanitised and protective gear provided to passengers, they added.New timings As per the recent revised schedule that will be effective from December 1 to February 28, the lone Air India flight to city will take off from Delhi at 2pm and reach Sahnewal airport at 3.15pm. Flight from Ludhiana will take off at 3.45pm and reach Delhi by 4.55pm.Days of operation The flight operates on four days a week: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-protest-rally-soars-occupancy-in-delhi-flight/articleshow/79497800.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Helping farmers, making agri profitable top priority: Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday reiterated his promise that his government will always stand by farmers. Replying to a debate on the first day of the assembly session on losses suffered by farmers in the state due to Nivar cyclone, Jagan said his government’s first priority is to help farmers, make agriculture profitable and change the face of rural Andhra Pradesh. The chief minister said his government has filled all reservoirs in the state to their full capacity for the first time. “Good rains have ensured that the ground water levels have gone up, which is a good sign for the future. The ongoing irrigation projects and free borewells for farmers will change face of farming in the state. No farmer will have to wait for water in future,” he said. He further said the government is constructing 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendras which would become the farmers’ contact points in the village. “The RBKs will record crop varieties and their size, help in marketing of the crops, function as procurement centres, cold storages, godowns, food processing units, and distribution points for quality seeds, fertilisers and pesticides,” the chief minister said. He said the input subsidy to farmers has been paid within months unlike in the past. Even crop insurance and compensation for crop damage has been paid within months. “The government paid Rs 143 crore to 50 lakh farmers in the state in the past 18 months under the Rythu Bharosa scheme. We will pay another instalment to farmers during Pongal in 2021,” Jagan added. Referring to damages caused by Nivar cyclone, Jagan said officials have started the enumeration process and compensation would be paid to farmers by December 31. “Compensation of Rs 5 lakh each has already been paid to the families of eight persons who died in the cyclone. Families in rehabilitation camps during floods have been paid Rs 500 each,” he said. The government has spent over Rs 1,700 crore to upgrade the existing power feeders so that farmers got quality free power. “We have also cleared arrears of Rs 8,655 crore to the electricity department towards free power to farmers, which the previous government did not pay. We also cleared the previous government’s dues of Rs 1,030 crore towards zero interest loans to farmers,” Jagan said, adding that his government is planning to spend Rs 10,000 crore to boost food processing activity in the state, including setting up of food processing and primary agriculture processing units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/helping-farmers-making-agri-profitable-top-priority-jagan/articleshow/79497809.cms||Gopi Dara
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: To clear cricket betting debts, M Tech student murders mother, sister||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old M Tech student, who squandered over Rs 20 lakh in cricket betting and ran debts of several lakhs, has been arrested for allegedly killing his mother and sister to sell their family property at Medchal. The accused laced their food with pesticide. On Monday, Medchal police arrested P Sainath Reddy, 23, M Tech II year student of CMR College, for killing his mother P Sunitha, 44, and his sister P Anuja Reddy, 22, a B Pharmacy student. According to police, Sainath’s father Prabhakar Reddy had died three years ago in a road accident and his savings and insurance amount, which was about Rs 20 lakh, was deposited in a bank account of Sunitha. However, Sainath, who wanted to lead a lavish life, started betting on cricket matches. “Sunitha’s bank account is linked to Sainath’s mobile number. He also knew the internet banking details of the account. To place bets on cricket matches, Sainath withdrew Rs 20 lakh over a period of three years. He also sold Sunitha’s 15 tola gold jewellery without her knowledge. Sainath also borrowed a few lakhs through money lending apps,” Medchal inspector M Praveen Reddy said. As pressure started mounting on Sainath from money lenders, who threatened to send notices to his house and contact his family members, he decided to kill his mother and sister, so that he could sell the family property to clear the debts, the inspector said. According to the plan, Sainath purchased pesticide at Medchal and mixed it in the rice at home on November 23. Subsequently, he also packed lunch to avoid suspicion and went to a vehicle showroom at Rajabollarum, where he has been doing part-time work. In the night, Sainath returned home after receiving phone calls from Sunitha saying they were not well. He shifted them to local hospital and from there they were transferred to Gandhi Hospital. While undergoing treatment at Gandhi Hospital, Anusha succumbed on November 27 and Sunitha on November 28. “Relatives expressed doubts over the behaviour of Sainath as he was unable to pay bills at the private hospital. During the interrogation, Sainath confessed to have committed the murders to prevent his mother from knowing about the debts and clear his way to dispose of the small piece of family land,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/to-clear-cricket-betting-debts-m-tech-student-murders-mom-sister/articleshow/79500903.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kochi||Persons receiving money for services are disqualified: Kerala HC||KOCHI: A person who receives any payment for services rendered to the state government or a local authority is barred from contesting in local elections, the Kerala high court has held. Only gratuitous payments are excluded from the ban, the court said. The ruling by justice A Muhamed Mustaque sheds further light to a 2019 division bench judgment (Sulphikar Vs Rafeeq) that persons who are not categorized as employees but are receiving honorarium are also banned from contesting in polls as per section 86 of Kerala Municipality Act, 1994. A petition (WP-C No. 4710/2019) filed by Seena Johnson, a councilor at Koothattukulam municipality, challenging her disqualification from polls was considered by the court. She was disqualified as as she is receiving ‘sitting fee’ to cover her expenses while functioning as a member of child welfare committee of Ernakulam. No other allowance is being drawn by her and she cannot be considered as an employee, she had contended. In the judgment, the court said, “The fee paid to the petitioner is as a matter of right the petitioner is entitled to claim. This has been fixed in accordance with the rules framed under the Juvenile Justice Act. It has a character of remuneration. It is not a gratuitous payment. ‘Honorarium’ as referred under explanation (2) to Section 86 of the Municipality Act, therefore, is having a wider meaning to include any such payments received, not as a gratuitous payment, but taking note of any service rendered. Therefore, it is clear, any form of pecuniary benefit obtained would also come under the meaning of honorarium.” The court upheld the disqualification by state election commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/persons-receiving-money-for-services-are-disqualified-hc/articleshow/79497857.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||House pays tribute to Pranab, Balasubrahmanyam||Vijayawada: Both Houses of AP assembly condoled the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee, playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and former members of the assembly and Parliament on the first day of the winter session on Monday. Speaker Thammineni Sitaram tabled the condolence motions, which were approved by the House. The legislative council, led by chairman M A Shariff, paid tributes to the late leaders. Mukherjee served the nation in different positions and was later President. Sitaram and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy recalled his services. Both Houses paid tributes to former MLAs Janardhan Thatraj, Raavi Ravindranath, K V Chandramohan Rao, P Manikyala Rao, D Rajagopal Reddy, P Ammiraju, B Narayanaswamy, K V Raghavendra Rao, Balli Durgaprasada Rao, P Mangapathi Rao, Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao, Mocherla Johar, K Sivananda Reddy, Y T Raja and D A Satya Prabha. Durgaprasada Rao, the sitting Lok Sabha member from Tirupati, was a four-time MLA. The assembly and council also paid tributes to late playback singer Balasubrahmanyam who passed away on September 25. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/house-pays-tribute-to-pranab-balasubrahmanyam/articleshow/79497844.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Hubby of woman transfused HIV positive blood to be counselled||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday directed the authorities to provide weekly counselling for two months to the husband of a woman who was transfused HIV positive blood after she told the court that he was troubling her. The court was hearing a batch of petitions which sought to monitor government and private blood banks to ensure safe blood transfusion and provide proper relief to the Sattur woman who was transfused with HIV positive blood.Additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian submitted that pursuant to the court’s order, a two-wheeler has been given to the victim, who, through video conference, informed the court that her husband was harassing her, and sought protection. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi directed the authorities to provide psychological counselling to the victim’s husband once a week for two months. The judges appointed additional public prosecutor K K Ramakrishnan to take care of the proceedings of the woman and also sought response from LIC with regard to providing life insurance cover to her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hubby-of-woman-transfused-hiv-positive-blood-to-be-counselled/articleshow/79500547.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||563 blackspots in Tamil Nadu, but only 23 rectified||CHENNAI: National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has completed permanent rectification work at only 23 accident blackspots in the state. According to official data, in the past eight years, NHAI has identified 563 accident blackspots -- stretches which reported at least five fatal accidents in a year -- for permanent rectification. Rectification work includes change in road alignment/design, construction of speed breakers, additional traffic signals, cautionary sign boards, tower lights, rumble strips and blinkers. “We engaged a road safety expert group named ICT Private Limited for carrying out a diagnostic study of each of the 78 blackspots (identified between 2011 and 2014) and suggest suitable remedial measures,” said a senior NHAI official from Chennai regional office. But even before 30% of this work could be finished, the Union road transport ministry identified another 485 blackspots based on road crashes reported in 2015-18. Though permanent rectification of these new locations hasn’t begun yet, short-term fixes were done at 199 spots and works were pending at different stages in another 194 spots. “We are coordinating with state agencies to finish pending works soon,” the NHAI official said. Kamal Soi, member of National Road Safety Council, said these numbers will increase in the coming years. Central agencies can only fund or monitor such efforts. State agencies, particularly those in TN, should have political and bureaucratic will to get it done, he said. “Right now, there seems to be no focus and we are letting people die even after knowing where and how,” he said. Also, the state should enforce law and order effectively by punishing traffic violations as 78% of accidents were due to drivers’ faults, Soi said. While Tenkasi S Jawahar, the state road safety commissioner was unavailable for comment, his sub-ordinate in lead agency-road safety cell said they met once in three months to reduce accident rate and they were recently lauded by the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety for the sharp decline in accidents. Official data shows that TN recorded a 10.5% drop in road accidents in 2019 compared to 2018. However, with 57,228 crashes, it topped the country for the third consecutive year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/563-blackspots-in-tn-but-only-23-rectified/articleshow/79499144.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 1, 2020||Pune||Bavdhan residents to observe no personal vehicle day on Sunday||PUNE: Inspired by the quietness and reduced pollution during the lockdown and with an aim to promote use of fewer private vehicles, the residents of Bavdhan have decided to observe ‘no vehicle Sunday’ on the first Sunday of every month. While only 30 people had pledged participation on November 1, when the first ‘no vehicle Sunday’ was observed, the initiative has received more than double the number of supporters for December 6. The residents said they want to discourage use of private vehicles and encourage people to use public transport vehicles. However, people needing to use private vehicles for emergency purposes, such as for going to hospital, will not be discouraged, they said. According to local resident Dushyant Bhatia, the goal is to encourage as many residents as possible to avoid use of private vehicles on the day. “During the lockdown, there was a lot of talk on how pollution levels had reduced. While we can’t go back to those levels, we can at least attempt to reduce it slightly. People must either walk, use bicycles or public transport for commute on the day. Right now, we have started with one Sunday a month, but we could make it a weekly affair if people support it,” he said. Another resident, Deepa Prabhu, participated in the initiative last month though she was not in the city. “I was out of Pune, but made sure not to use my personal vehicle on November 1. Reducing dependence on motorised vehicles is a lifestyle change and this initiative is only the starting. We used the unlock period as an opportunity to begin convincing people to reduce use of private vehicles,” she said. Rakhi Saraf, an architect and local resident, said, “We want to slowly encourage people to make this a habit. Pune was the city of bicycles but now it has become the city of vehicles. We want to dissuade people from using their two-wheelers or cars for every small thing. We want to promote cycling as a mode of transport once again. If every neighbourhood adopts this initiate, we will be able to see a change.” Bhatia said that an awareness drive would be conducted on Sunday to spread the message. “Locals can pledge support to the initiative by registering with us on our Facebook page Bavdhancitizens. The goal is to open this initiative to all of Pune in the long run,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bavdhan-residents-to-observe-no-personal-vehicle-day-on-sunday/articleshow/79499145.cms||Rujuta Parekh
December 1, 2020||Goa||Stopped counting Ravi Naik as Cong MLA: Chodankar||Panaji: Congress has stopped counting Ponda MLA Ravi Naik as a party MLA, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar on Monday after Naik said that Chodankar had failed to strengthen the party at the grassroots-level. Chodankar said the party disowned the former chief minister after both his sons joined BJP. “In the assembly Ravi Naik is a Congress MLA but we have stopped counting him as our legislator,” said Chodankar. The public spat began after Naik blamed Chodankar and opposition leader Digambar Kamat for not doing enough to strengthen Congress and take on BJP. “The party’s organisation is not good,” said Naik. “Girish Chodankar, the president of the party, is not building the party. The root-level organisation has collapsed.” Naik met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday evening to reportedly follow up with ongoing works and proposed projects in his constituency. Speculation is rife that Naik will follow his sons into BJP before the next assembly polls and Chodankar himself has said that Naik is close to BJP. Naik said that Kamat has failed to highlight the inefficiency of the BJP-led government and that Congress has failed to call a meeting of all of its five MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stopped-counting-ravi-naik-as-cong-mla-chodankar/articleshow/79500555.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Occupants of two cars booked for damaging another four-wheeler, one held||PUNE: A man was arrested on Monday, a day after he and his five accomplices travelling in two different four-wheelers damaged the car of another person near Bhoomkar Chowk on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass following a row over jumping the queue at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza. Police identified the arrested person as Akash Vinod Shirole (22) of Ambegaon Khurd. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Sunday night had registered a case against him and his aides for damaging the car of Ronit Raju Wagh (28) of Wakad. The search for the five others is on. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “This is a case of road rage. Wagh, a software engineer, had noted down the registration number of the two cars the six suspects were travelling in. “ Wagh had gone to Sangli to fetch puppies with a friend on Sunday. On the way back, he had stopped his car in the queue at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza. “At this moment, two cars came at high speed and attempted to enter the queue. Wagh moved ahead and blocked their way. This enraged the suspects, unknown to Wagh,” Kalaskar said. Wagh told the police that after he crossed the toll plaza and started driving towards Pune, the two cars attempted to overtake him on several occasions. He managed to dodge them almost till Bhoomkar Chowk. Near Bhoomkar Chowk, according to the police, one of the cars of the suspects managed to overtake Wagh’s car. It stopped in front of his car and forced him to halt. According to Wagh, two men alighted from the car. One of them had an iron rod. “The duo walked towards Wagh’s car hurling abuses at him. The iron rod-wielding man smashed the windshield of Wagh’s car with the rod and the duo left. Wagh did not alight from his car,” Kalaskar said. The police said before Wagh could start his car, the other car the rest of the suspects were travelling in came from the rear. Four other men alighted from it, smashed the rear windshield of Wagh’s car and left. The police have registered a case of rioting, mischief, wrongful restrain and endangering human life or the personal safety of others against the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/occupants-of-two-cars-booked-for-damaging-another-four-wheeler-one-held/articleshow/79499173.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Shame, shame: FB post by crusader invites defamation||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government has filed a criminal defamation case against Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of NGO Arappor Iyakkam, for a video post on Facebook in March. The NGO has exposed several scams in the state. The government order signed by P Senthilkumar, IAS, dated September 9 said Jayaram uploaded a defamatory speech against then Chennai police commissioner A K Viswanathan for rejecting permission for their protest at Valluvar Kottam on March 15. The order states that this speech intended to harm Viswanathan’s reputation and hence was defamatory. Senthilkumar recommended action under sections 499 and 500 of the IPC. The city public prosecutor filed a complaint before the principal sessions judge, Chennai, on September 22. The case came up for hearing on Monday with Jayaram being issued summons on Sunday. In the video, Jayaram said they had asked for permission to hold a peaceful demonstration titled ‘Kollaiyane Veliyeru’ (Looters, get out) against an alleged Rs 1,500 crore scam in the procurement of sugar, pulses and palm oil by the Tamil Nadu government. He said Article 19 of the Constitution gave him the right to free speech and questioned Viswanathan on the denial of permission. Jayaram said permission had earlier been rejected for a protest in 2017 by Viswanathan, after which they filed a case before the Madras high court which allowed the protest. This was repeated in 2019, when Arappor Iyakkam organised a protest ‘Kelu Chennai Kelu’ for protection of water bodies in the city. The 14-minute-long post has been seen 6,600 times till Monday evening. Jayaram said the NGO had been charged in a series of false FIRs since June 2019. “I have been made to visit several police stations in the name of inquiry and Arappor’s indoor events have also been stopped,” he said. Arappor would continue to face this boldly and that this would not stop them from raising issues against corruption or questioning the police, Jayaram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shame-shame-fb-post-by-crusader-invites-defamation/articleshow/79499178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Pune||Cab queries to Goa, Rajasthan soar amid Maharashtra flight test rules||PUNE: Cab companies are witnessing a steady rise in bookings and enquiries to Goa and Rajasthan with air travel taking a hit following the Maharashtra government’s guidelines on mandatory Covid-19 tests for air passengers arriving from the two states, besides Delhi and Gujarat. One reason for the rise in cab enquiries and bookings to and from some of these states could be the fact that the new guidelines did not mention the requirement of a negative RT-PCR test report for entering Maharashtra by road or taking the test upon entry, a travel company representative said. On the difference in rules for road and air travellers, Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar told TOI, “People travelling by road from places like Delhi NCR to Maharashtra will be very few in number in comparison to the fliers. Whatever was possible was done while framing the guidelines.” Nirmik Soni, owner of Vadodara-based car rental company Amy Cab, said, “We have seen a 100% increase in cab travel enquiries from Vadodara and Ahmedabad to Mumbai and Pune in the past few days. We recently booked three passengers from Maharashtra and had booked a drop. Most travellers to Mumbai and Pune usually prefer flights. However, we have received about eight enquiries in the past few days for cabs to Maharashtra.” Amit Pandya, the owner of Mahadev Taxi and Cab Services in Vadodara, said, “We have recently seen a 10%-20% rise in enquiries for cab hire to Mumbai and Mahabaleshwar.” Ashwin Trivedi, director of Pune-based Pluto Travels India Private Limited, said, “The Pune airport has a limited number of flights after the shift to the 12-hour operation window. TheRT-PCR rule for flyers from the four states has also caused a preference for road travel. We have registered a 20% rise in cab bookings for Goa.” A cab company owner in Pune said, “I dropped my friend to Goa a few days ago and he was to return to Pune by air. He will let me know when I am to send a cab to pick him up.” Girish Makhijani, owner of Hare Krishna Comfort Tours, Pune, said, “Bookings have gone up due to twin reasons: no direct Pune to Goa flight as well as the testing norms at airport.” Santosh Gupta, owner of city-based Shree Vinayak Holidays, said, “We recently had six-seven cab enquiries for Pune to Goa. We also received a rare cab query for Rajasthan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cab-queries-to-goa-raj-soar-amid-maha-flight-test-rules/articleshow/79499175.cms||Neha Madaan
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Teen falls off 24th-floor flat on EM Bypass in Kolkata, dies||KOLKATA: A 17-year-old boy — known as a good student and a passionate footballer who occasionally fell sick — at the posh Urbana condominium off EM Bypass died after falling from the bathroom window of his 24th-floor flat on Monday morning. Police said the boy — a Class-XII commerce student of a reputable English medium school in central Kolkata — had been sick and hadn’t eaten much for the last three days. On Monday, the family had called for an ambulance to take him to a hospital. But minutes before the ambulance arrived, the boy went to the bathroom and reportedly jumped from the window. He fell on a couple of cycles. By the time people in the condo heard the loud sound and rushed in, he was found dead and lying in a pool of blood. Cops probing into the case said the boy was in depression for the last few days due to lack of preparation for the ensuing HS exam. “Prima facie, it looks like a suicide. The victim’s father and elder brother were at home when the incident happened. We are questioning them to find out what exactly had led to the incident,” said a senior officer of Anandapur police station. A senior detective department official, which sent a homicide squad team to ascertain the nature of death, also said they were probing into all possible angles and are awaiting the post-mortem examination report for a confirmation on the reason behind his death. A senior official of Urbana facility management said the family came in as tenants at a 24th floor flat of Tower 5 around one and a half years ago. “He was a bright boy but he occasionally fell sick and his father used to call us for help. Even on Monday, the family had informed us that they have called for an ambulance to take him to a hospital. But the ambulance got delayed by over two hours. By the time the ambulance came in, the boy had locked himself in the bathroom. He had possibly climbed on the commode and had jumped from the window,” said the official. Cops probing into the case said they have learnt that the student was under depression for the past few weeks which had increased significantly in the past 72 hours when he had almost stopped eating. “The Anandapur police received information about a fall from height on Monday morning. Accordingly, police went to the spot and learnt that a juvenile had jumped through the window of the bathroom even when his elder brother and father were in the flat,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. The youth’s father is a senior official at a large corporate house while his brother is post graduate student. The youth’s mother lived in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/teen-falls-off-24th-floor-flat-on-em-bypass-dies/articleshow/79499162.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||IPS officers exodus leaves senior posts vacant||Vijayawada: While the Andhra Pradesh police department has requested the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to fill up vacancies of senior IPS officer posts, recent trends show that there has been an exodus of senior police officers to either inter-state or central services. DGP D Gautam Sawang met additional secretary of DoPT Lok Ranjan and handed over a memorandum requesting him to fill several important posts that have been lying vacant since bifurcation of the state. With the state government deciding to form more district police units and commissionerates, the state police is in desperate need of more IPS officers to ensure administrative convenience. However, since the YSRC government took over, eight IPS officers holding ranks from director-General to SP have left the state on deputation. Two IPS officers—Sarvashrestha Tripathi and Gajarao Bhupal—have left for Uttar Pradesh and Telangana respectively on inter-cadre deputation. Tripathi is deputy commissioner of police in Lucknow while Bhupal looks after a particular zone in Hyderabad. DG-rank officers such as CH Dwaraka Tirumala Rao and Mahesh Chandra Laddha are recent additions who will be taking charge of posts allocated by the Union ministry of home affairs. Other IPS officers include R Jayalakshmi who took charge as SP CBI, Grewal Navdeep Singh who joined the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and ADG-rank officer Amit Garg who joined the National Police Academy. Former Greyhounds chief Nalin Prabhat joined the CRPF as an IG-rank officer and Atul Singh is an additional secretary with central vigilance. Meanwhile, some AP-cadre IPS officers such as Varun Sindhu Kul Kaumudi have been on central deputation since 2014. Senior police officials acknowledge that the reasons behind leaving the state could be political fallouts and career aspirations in another state. However, they note that there are many IPS officers in the state who have not preferred Andhra Pradesh since bifurcation. In fact, a lot of service-related matters against the ‘arbitrary’ transfer to the AP cadre came up with the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) back in 2014. “We could have easily filled at least 10 or more positions if the IPS exodus didn’t take place. However, the government can’t just arbitrarily reject transfer requests put out by the IPS personnel as personal choices have to be respected as well,” a senior IPS officer told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ips-officers-exodus-leaves-senior-posts-vacant/articleshow/79497862.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Free patta: HC orders filing of case against teacher, two officials||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday ordered registration of a criminal case in the incident in which a government school teacher managed to obtain free pattas meant for landless poor for himself and his family members. The court was hearing a petition filed by G Raja who sought a direction to restrain the authorities from disturbing the possession of the free patta allotted to him at Palluvoor in Sivaganga. Pursuant to the earlier order, DVAC officials conducted an inquiry and submitted a report before the court. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that on perusal of the DVAC report, it is clear that prima facie materials are available against the petitioner, his son and the tahsildar. However, since it was informed that the petitioner’s son had no role to play in obtaining patta, it is open to the authorities to reconsider his suspension. The judges observed that though the petitioner and the tahsildar were suspended, no criminal case was registered against them or action taken against a VAO who also had a role in the case. Observing that mere suspension is not sufficient, the judges directed to issue charge memo to the petitioner, tahsildar and VAO and directed to register a criminal case and proceed in accordance with law. The judges also sought property details, number of bank accounts and deposits made by the petitioner and his family members as well as the tahsildar and his family members. They also sought to know whether Raja was running a finance firm and the tahsildar was a leader in any association of government employees. At the previous hearing, the government had informed that the petitioner suppressed the fact that he is a teacher in a govt middle school. Five members of his family including his son R Mutharasan. who is a doctor in a PHC, was also allotted free patta. The petitioner, his son and the tahsildar who issued pattas were suspended. The case has been adjourned to December 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/free-patta-hc-orders-filing-of-case-against-teacher-two-officials/articleshow/79500550.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 1, 2020||Pune||Safety net work begins at ghat section, road to Sinhagad fort shut for traffic||PUNE: The road to Sinhagad fort will remain shut for vehicles for the next few days in view of the ongoing safety net work at the ghat section. Visitors can, however, trek to reach the top of the historical structure. The work was delayed due to the Covid-19 spread and resultant lockdown. It would continue for the next one month at two of the 12 vulnerable spots. Officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said the tender process for the work was stopped during the lockdown. “It completed only last month. Over 100 sites are ready for bolting and the work has been expedited,” the official said. The state government had urged the IIT Bombay to survey the entire ghat area to identify spots vulnerable to landslides and suggest remedial measures. “The work has been initiated as per the suggestions. We are identifying the vulnerable locations based on longitude and latitude mentioned in the IIT Bombay report. Most of the works are recommended in the upper section of the ghat area. The work in the ghat section is not similar to other road works because of the availability of limited space, among other challenges,” the PWD official said, adding that the department had deployed the required machinery and manpower to expedite the work. Vendors demand weekend relaxationVendors at the fort have demanded the administration to allow vehicle movement in the ghat section during weekends and holidays. “The move is needed as vendors have already suffered a major setback because of the lockdown,” Sanjay Konde, a local vendor, said. Shiv Sena leader Ramesh Konde has also urged the administration to allow the vendors resume their business at the fort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/safety-net-work-begins-at-ghat-section-road-to-sinhagad-fort-shut-for-traffic/articleshow/79499157.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Man stabs HIV-infected wife to death in Haveri district||HAVERI: A 33-year-old woman suspected to have been infected with HIV was killed allegedly by her husband in Ranebennur, 35km from Haveri and 300km from Bengaluru, on Sunday afternoon. Police said Naveen Hulagammanavar, 40, attacked her in the neck and head using an axe, and she died on the spot. Later, the accused surrendered before Ranebennur Town police, stating he committed the murder “out of depression” as his wife was suffering from AIDS. Naveen is her second husband, and they were married for nine years. They have two daughters, aged eight and six. This was his first marriage, and he runs a bar in the town. According to police, trouble started after she reportedly tested positive for HIV four years ago. Accused in 6-day custodyPolice said the couple did not have any differences until she reportedly tested positive for HIV four years ago. Their differences grew deeper with each passing year, driving the couple into depression. Ranebennur Town circle inspector MI Goudappa Goudar said they have registered an FIR and were probing the incident from all angles. The accused was produced before a local court, which has remanded him in six-day police custody for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-stabs-hiv-infected-wife-to-death-in-haveri-dist/articleshow/79501450.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||Recoveries exceed fresh cases in PMR after a week||Pune: The number of Covid-19 recoveries exceeded new cases after a week in Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Monday, with 543 people testing positive against 743 discharges in 24 hours, as per offficial data from the district health office. The drop in new cases was attributed to fewer tests during the weekend. The official data stated that 6,340 samples were tested in PMR on Monday. The region has tested over 16.31 lakh samples so far. With the fresh infections, the caseload in PMR has reached above 3.42 lakh, while the recoveries topped 3.23 lakh. The PMC areas added 185 new patients against 356 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Ten more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Monday, pushing the death tally to 8,400. Six patients died in the PMC areas, three in the rural areas while one death was reported in the PCMC limits. The active patient’s tally in the region reached 11,448 on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-exceed-fresh-cases-in-pmr-after-a-week/articleshow/79499187.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 1, 2020||Pune||Comorbidities behind 78% Covid fatalities in PMC limits: Report||PUNE: A state technical committee report has revealed that comorbidities contributed to 3,439 (78%) of the total 4,407 Covid-19 deaths in the Pune municipal limits till November 19. The report, which has enlisted 14 different types of comorbidities, stated that highest fatalities (2,942) occurred in the 60 and above age group, of which 2,294 (77%) were due to comorbidities. In the 40 to 60 age group, as many as 1,264 patients succumbed to Covid-19, of whom 954 had comorbidities. Surprisingly, the 20 to 40 age group showed 177 deaths (95%) due to comorbidities against a total of 185 deaths. Subhash Salunkhe, member of the state’s technical committee on Covid-19, told TOI that they has asked both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal bodies to produce the audit committee’s report for the deaths which had occurred after October 1 by next week to find out if there were any loopholes in the treatment. Salunkhe said, “Death rate is not going to come down verbally in the Pune region and it remains one of the major concerns for us. Thankfully, we can confidently say that there is nothing about the hiding deaths here. We have on November 24, instructed the officials to give us more information on the compliance to the establishment of death audit committees, how many members are there, how many meetings have taken place, what are their observations, and whether they have identified any loopholes in the deaths, and whether the patient’s treatment had any issues.” When contacted, PMC’s additional commissioner, Rubal Agarwal, told TOI, “We have had meetings with the state’s technical committee members and we will be producing a report about these deaths within a week to the panel.” Agarwal said, “Death audit committee is analysing the deaths in the PMC limits. Our observations about the high number of comorbid deaths are that many comorbid people or their families are not coming out despite knowing their health status or such folks are not complying with staying inside guideline. It has been also observed that many times, they are coming in contact with the working-class age group, which could pass on the infection to them. But we are discussing the ways to prevent that and how the death rate can be lowered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/comorbidities-behind-78-covid-fatalities-in-pmc-limits-report/articleshow/79499180.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Police firms up traffic plans for the reopening of Majerhat Bridge||KOLKATA: A team of Kolkata Police, the special branch and chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s core security team met in an advanced security liaison meeting and conducted a thorough inspection of the Majerhat bridge on Monday discussing the plans for the Thursday inauguration of the bridge and finalise traffic flow that will be in place following the inauguration. “As of now, the plan is to return back to old traffic system that was in place before the bridge had caved in two years ago. Both-way movement for all vehicles will be allowed on bridge. Nearby roads like Sahapur Road and Nalin Sarkar Road in New Alipore, which were made one-way will carry two-way traffic again,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. This will also mean that right turns from Nalin Sarkar Street will be regulated once again and Sahapur Road will have to take the extra load from New Alipore Triangular park. While the bridge will be fully functional, among the four at-grade service roads that run beside the bridge — two on both ends — three will be operational. “The two at-grade service roads on Behala end will be thrown open. On Mominpore end, the road leading to Santosh Roy Road will carry traffic but the other road that runs between Mominpore and the Garden Reach flyover will remain closed because of Metro pillar construction. Vehicles coming down Garden Reach flyover will use a new road beside Katapukur morgue and Lohar Math area to exit through Remount Road,” said the official. Although the state has hinted at possible closure of Bailey bridge the moment the Majerhat bridge is operational, traffic department said they were yet to get an official order for the same. “We are prepared for both the situations. In any case, once Majerhat bridge is operational, very few vehicles will take other roads,” said an officer. With restrictions of bicycles on the bridge, the cops want to keep the Bailey bridge operational for a few days for two-wheeler and non-motorized vehicles till an alternate route is worked out. The police are also in favour of allowing trucks on the bridge from the first day itself unlike some other flyovers in the city to ease movement towards the southern tip of the city and a vast section of South 24 Parganas. The larger traffic plan will also keep in mind the dispersal from Taratala Bridge. With civic agencies indicating it might go for a check-up of the health of both Durgapur and Karunamoyee bridges after the commissioning of Majerhat Bridge, the police will also be taking into account how to manage vehicles re-routed. Residents of Behala, who had been facing trying times because of the bridge closure, said they were finally looking forward to good times. “Journey to office had become a cumbersome affair. What used to be a 45-minute journey on a bus to reach office in Esplanade, started taking more than two hours after the bridge caved in as buses had to take a detour via Hide Road. Now that the bridge reopens, life will be a lot easier,” said Behala resident Aritra Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-firms-up-traffic-plans-for-the-reopening-of-majerhat-bridge/articleshow/79499209.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Bhoosamara Samithi takes the poll plunge||Kozhikode: In a bid to bring the tribal land issue into the electoral agenda, Bhoosamara Samithi, which had been staging agitations demanding land to landless tribals in Wayanad, has fielded candidates in two constituencies in Wayanad. Two tribal candidates from the backward Paniya community are contesting the upcoming local body polls under the Samithi’s banner, highlighting the failed promises of successive governments to provide land to landless tribals. Anila Ananthan is contesting the election from ST reserved Pulppally division in Panamaram block panchayat and A K Rajan is the candidate in the 15th ward in Pulpally grama panchayat under the slogan ‘agricultural land and proper housing is not a favour but a right’. Both candidates had taken part in the Thovarimala land agitation held last year which had spurred similar tribal agitations in many other places in Wayanad in last one-and-half years. Just two days before 2019 Parliament elections, the samithi had occupied land at Thovarimala which was taken over by the state government in 1970 from Harrisons Malayalam Ltd after identifying it as excess land. Though the forest department evicted the around 200 families who staged the agitation, they continued the protests in front of the collectorate for months. “Contesting polls is a form of struggle for us. The tribal land issue has been conveniently sidelined by successive governments. Our attempt is to bring it back on the election agenda. In my ward, there are around 400 tribal voters and nearly all of them don’t own enough agricultural land to make a living,” said Rajan. It is the first time that Bhoosamara Samithi has entered the electoral fray raising the tribal land issue though the landless tribals in Wayanad had been agitating against the delay in distribution of the promised land of one to five acre since many years. Samithi district convener K V Prakash said that while the government figures show only 3,215 landless tribal families in the district, that is not correct as more than 60% tribals in the district don’t have agricultural land needed for dignified living. “The official figures count even a person provided three cents under LIFE Housing Mission as a land holder. Actually a tribal family should be considered as owning land only if it is agricultural land which would enable them to earn a livelihood. Our electoral foray is just a beginning and we would intensify our land struggle, including through the ballot way,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/bhoosamara-samithi-takes-the-poll-plunge/articleshow/79497920.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||HC orders probe against registry staff for illegal listing of bail pleas||Madurai: Pulling up registry officials for listing successive bail petitions before other courts, Madras high court directed the registrar general to conduct a detailed inquiry, including by vigilance, on the irregularities committed by registry officials of the Madurai bench and initiate disciplinary proceedings against them.The court passed the order while dismissing the bail petition of R Palanivelu of Pudukkottai district in a murder case for filing a second bail application, nine days after his first bail petition was dismissed by the court.Justice S M Subramaniam observed that the government advocate had brought to the notice of the court that successive bail petitions were being listed before other courts after dismissal of the first bail petition. On verification, it became clear that no orders were obtained either from the court concerned or from the Chief Justice for listing the matters before another court.Pursuant to the order of the Supreme Court, a circular issued by the HC dated February 8, 2006 states that successive bail applications should be posted before the same judge who had denied bail at the first instance unless that judge is unavailable. Similarly, petitions for cancellation of bail should also be posted before the judge who granted bail in the first instance, unless that judge is not available, the court observed.When such a circular is in force, the judge wondered how successive bail petitions could be listed by registry officials unilaterally, more specifically, at their choice and whims and fancies. “Such an action of the registry is a clear interference with the prerogative powers of the Chief Justice, in the matter of allotment of roster. These are all not only the mere violations, it is a serious misconduct, wherein the powers of the Chief Justice are usurped by the high court registry,” observed the judge.The court said these activities have been going on in a number of cases for a long duration. “Bench-hunting and forum shopping are seriously criticized by the Supreme Court and high court registry cannot pave any way for such illegal activities of bench-hunting and forum shopping by the litigants or their counsels,” observed the judge.The judge said that largescale involvements with litigants or their counsels have to be investigated. Saying that serious action is urgently warranted, the judge said that the registrar general is bound to act swiftly to prevent such illegal listing of cases in violation of the circular issued by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-orders-probe-against-registry-staff-for-illegal-listing-of-bail-pleas/articleshow/79500553.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 1, 2020||Pune||Rural police bust gang of highway robbers||Pune: The Shirur police chased and nabbed a gang for robbing truck drivers on the Nhavare-Chaufula road on Sunday. The police arrested Bhausaheb Phadke (32) and Anil Chavan (19), both residents of Daund, and detained a minor. Two more men managed to give them the slip. A high-end sports utility vehicle (SUV), an airgun and sharp weapons were recovered. Phadke is from an affluent family, which owns a petrol pump. He has a criminal record, police said. “An initial probe revealed that the suspects robbed about eight truck drivers in the past few weeks,” assistant inspector Kiran Undre said. He said they suspected that the SUV was stolen. “We have recovered three number plates from the vehicle.” Undre said they received information that a gang was planning to rob truck drivers near Andhalgaon Phata, near Shirur. “When we reached, the suspects sped away towards Chaufula and we gave chase,” Undre said. Police alerted the control room, after which checkpoints were deployed at many spots. “The suspects abandoned the SUV and vanished into a nearby field. We chased and nabbed Phadke, Chavan and the minor. The other two escaped,” Undre said. Undre said the suspects would drive in the SUV on this stretch at night and target heavy vehicles from outside the district or even the state. “They would intercept the vehicle claiming that it brushed their SUV, quarrel with the driver and rob him,” Undre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-police-bust-gang-of-highway-robbers/articleshow/79499183.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag may soon emerge as golf tourism destination||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag, which is tipped to become the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh, is all set to emerge as a golf tourism destination with the East Point Golf Club (EPGC) at Mudasarlova turning into a category-I (Class A) golf course by February 2021. Nestled amid hills with green carpet of grass all around, the 135-year-old EPGC is expected to soon host national and international golf events. Works for the over-100 acre 18-hole golf course are in full swing. The EPGC was given an additional 12.72 acres land by the state government to transform the golf course from its current Class-B status to Class-A status. EPGC is the only major public golf course in Andhra Pradesh with an 18-hole course. It was categorised as Class-B as it measured 6,041 yards. If a golf course measures over 6,700 yards, it is considered a Class-A golf course. Uday Shirname, vice-president of EPGC, said, “We are spending a good amount on redesigning the golf course into Class-A. Over 80% works have been completed. The rest will be completed by December. If all goes according to plan, EPGC will get Class-A status by February 2021.” Once the works are completed, representatives of the Indian Golf Union (IGU) — the governing body of golf in India — will visit EPGC and examine it and subsequently declare it Class-A status. Once EPGC gets Class-A status, the club is expected to get reputed sponsors and host major golf events. EPGC will also attract foreign visitors who love to play the game, said EPGC secretary RVS Rudraraju. Set up in 1884 by the British, the golf club was originally located near VUDA Park. It was moved to its current location in Mudasarlova in 1964 owing to efforts of Raja PV Gajapathi Raju of Vizianagaram and other avid golf clubs. The club currently has over 1,000 members including naval personnel, businessmen and professional golfers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/port-city-may-soon-emerge-as-golf-tourism-destination/articleshow/79497880.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||3 mnths after mishap, cops grill Dr Ramesh||Vijayawada: Almost three months after the Swarna Palace fire accident that claimed 10 lives, city police finally managed to interrogate the managing director of Ramesh Hospitals, Pothineni Ramesh Babu, at Suryaraopet police station in the city on Monday. Dr Ramesh, who has been named as one of the main accused in the case, appeared before the investigating officers from around 10 am in the morning till 5 pm in the evening as per the high court orders. Sources said that they had sought details about the MoU signed between Dr Ramesh and Swarna Palace owner M Srinivas Rao in setting up a Covid Care Centre. Officials also grilled him about the lack of fire safety measures on the premises which allegedly resulted in the deaths of 10 patients and injured over 20 others. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-law and order) Ch Lakshmipathi, who is investigating officer in the case, is leading the interrogation. Officials said that the custodial interrogation will continue till Wednesday as per the high court orders. Officials also said that they had sought some of the documents pertaining to the deal signed by Ramesh Hospitals and Swarna Palace. The high court had directed Ramesh to cooperate with the investigation on December 1 and 2 while following Covid-19 protocols. The high court issued orders to conduct a custodial investigation of Ramesh Babu on November 30, December 1 and 2, from 10 am to 5 pm, by following Covid-19 protocols and other guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/3-mnths-after-mishap-cops-grill-dr-ramesh/articleshow/79497924.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||Death audit must in twin town hosps||Pimpri Chinchwad: Civic chief Shravan Hardikar has quashed reports about exclusion of private hospitals from the audit of Covid-induced fatalities. He said the two panels of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation would submit the report to the state task force committee this week. State technical committee member Subhash Salunkhe confirmed that the private hospitals were not excluded from the audit. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/death-audit-must-in-twin-town-hosps/articleshow/79499215.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Surappa probe: Madras HC wants TN govt to produce all files||MADURAI: Madras high court on Monday directed the state government to produce all files with regard to the GO and complaint made against Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by Manithanigai Kumar, a resident of Kanyakumari district, who challenged the GO passed by the state government to initiate a probe against Surappa. During the course of hearing, Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted that retired Madras high court Justice P Kalaiyarasan was appointed to probe the complaints and the petition was not maintainable. The petitioner said a person from Trichy district had sent a complaint to the chief minister’s special cell making baseless allegations that the VC and the deputy director of the centre for constituent colleges had received money for recruiting temporary teaching staff at the colleges and Anna University main campus. Stating that the GO initiating probe against him was passed with ulterior motive, the petitioner moved HC Madurai bench challenging it and also sought to stay its proceedings. The case was adjourned to December 2 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-calls-for-files-on-probe-complaint-against-surappa/articleshow/79500559.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Gurgaon||In Haryana, Muslim youth converts to marry Hindu girl||CHANDIGARH: At a time when the Haryana government is thinking of bringing in a law against ‘love jihad’ cases in the state, a Muslim boy from Yamunanagar district has converted to Hinduism to marry a Hindu girl. The boy (name withheld) changed his name before marrying the girl in a temple in accordance with Hindu rituals, reports Ajay Sura. The couple — the girl (name withheld), 19, and the boy, 21 — are under the protection of the Yamunanagar police following the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court. They had told the court that they feared a threat to their lives and liberty from the girl’s family. The boy, who works in a private company and earns around Rs 15,000 per month, claimed his parents were ready to accept their relationship but the girl’s family and relatives were against it. On November 9, they solemnised their marriage against the wishes of the girl’s parents. However, they alleged, when the girl’s family learned of their marriage, they started threatening them with dire consequences. The couple had approached the high court, submitting that opposition to their marriage was a serious abuse of their rights provided under Article 21 of the Constitution. The couple claimed that the girl’s relatives are saying that they will eliminate them whenever they get a chance. During the hearing on November 11, the counsel for the girl’s family said her family wanted to meet her once. She, however, declined. After hearing the case, the HC ordered the Yamunanagar SP to evaluate the threat perception and provide them security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-haryana-muslim-youth-converts-to-marry-hindu-girl/articleshow/79501507.cms||Ajay Sura
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ballot papers to be printed in Tamil, Kannada||Thiruvananthapuram: Ballot papers and labels will be printed in Tamil and Kannada languages in wards with linguistic minorities for the local body elections. Ballot papers will be printed in Tamil in addition to Malayalam in a few wards in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Palakkad and Wayanad. Kannada ballot labels and papers will be available in some of the wards in Kasaragod district. In total, Tamil ballot papers will be printed in 375 wards in 36 grama panchayats and Kannada ballot papers will be available in 228 wards in 18 grama panchayats. Tamil ballot will be printed in Valiyasala and Karamana wards under Thiruvananthapuram corporation. In Kasaragod, Kannada ballot will be printed in 38 wards under Kasaragod municipality and Tamil ballot will be available in three wards under Chittor Thathamangalam municipality. Among the district panchayats, 12 wards in Kollam, three wards in Pathanamthitta, 224 wards in Idukki, 135 wards in Palakkad, one ward in Wayanad will have Tamil ballots. As many as 228 wards in Kasaragod district panchayat will have Kannada ballot papers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ballot-papers-to-be-printed-in-tamil-kannada/articleshow/79497952.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Botanic Garden reopen today after Covid break||HOWRAH: Hundreds of morning walkers, who used to breathe in fresh air at Botanic Garden, Shibpur, have a reason to cheer. The gates of the garden will be thrown open to morning walkers on Tuesday — for the first time since March 18 this year. The Covid pandemic had forced authorities of the garden to prohibit entry to morning walkers. Kanad Das, director of the Botanic Garden, said, “We will open our gates to morning walkers from 5.30 am to 7.30 am every day from December 1. Morning walkers have been advised to abide by Covid safety norms.” Authorities have agreed to allow morning walkers, provided they wear masks and maintain social distancing. Morning walkers, who opt to use the three-seater benches spread across the garden, will have to leave the middle seat vacant. In fact, these seats will be marked with a cross, indicating that no one should sit on them. In the first phase, only regular morning walkers will be allowed in. Names of such regulars are with the garden authorities, sources said. Later, other morning walkers will be allowed in. But this date is yet to be fixed. A resident said that to walk and take in the fresh air of the garden was a privilege for all living in the concrete jungle. “This place is also home to beautiful flora and fauna that cover the 270-acre Botanic Garden,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/botanic-garden-to-reopen-today-after-covid-break/articleshow/79499252.cms||Rupak Banerjee
December 1, 2020||Goa||Success fee clause keeps consultants for GIDC away||Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC)’s attempt to select a property consultant, who could help auction land re-possessed from the SEZ promoters, came to naught as not a single consultancy firm bid for the contract. Even though some global consultancy firms evinced interest in the contract, the success fee clause kept them away. GIDC has decided to extend the last date for bidding till December 10. “Nobody bid for the consultancy. There was no response. We have extended the time for another 10 days,” GIDC managing director Derrick P Neto said. “If we still don’t get any company, we will have to go back to the government.” The setback comes even as GIDC continues to pay a steep interest of Rs 3.5 crore per month as interest on a Rs 200 crore short-term loan from the Oriental Bank of Commerce. The loan was taken in May 2019 to pay back the SEZ promoters as part of an out-of-court settlement to take back 38.4 lakh sqm of land. On December 30, 2019, the industries department asked GIDC to auction the SEZ land in order to repay the loan. However, bureaucratic delays and the Covid-19 pandemic delayed the process. GIDC issued the Request for Proposal (RFP) for the property consultant only in October. The RFP says the consultant will be paid a percentage of the revenue earned by GIDC after the land is auctioned while also requiring the successful bidder to pay Rs 2.5 crore as performance guarantee. GIDC’s terms and conditions say that no payment will be done at the start of the consultancy. “Money will be paid only when the land is auctioned off and sold. Some companies were asking for mobilization advance because they have to incur some advance expenditure,” said an official who attended the pre-bid meeting. Jones Lang LaSalle Inc, KPMG International, Ernst & Young (EY) and a few other companies participated in the pre-bid meeting but did not submit a bid. GIDC intends to auction off 24 lakh sqm of land, starting with 5 lakh sqm. “A good consultant will be able to get better revenue in the shortest period of time. But GIDC should pay at least to cover the expenses of the consultant. If they are extending it on similar terms, then it is of no use because the big firms will not bid,” said a representative of one of the global firms that participated in the pre-bid meeting. Panaji: Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC)’s attempt to select a property consultant, who could help auction land re-possessed from the SEZ promoters, came to naught as not a single consultancy firm bid for the contract. Even though some global consultancy firms evinced interest in the contract, the success fee clause kept them away. GIDC has decided to extend the last date for bidding till December 10. “Nobody bid for the consultancy. There was no response. We have extended the time for another 10 days,” GIDC managing director Derrick P Neto said. “If we still don’t get any company, we will have to go back to the government.” The setback comes even as GIDC continues to pay a steep interest of Rs 3.5 crore per month as interest on a Rs 200 crore short-term loan from the Oriental Bank of Commerce. The loan was taken in May 2019 to pay back the SEZ promoters as part of an out-of-court settlement to take back 38.4 lakh sqm of land. On December 30, 2019, the industries department asked GIDC to auction the SEZ land in order to repay the loan. However, bureaucratic delays and the Covid-19 pandemic delayed the process. GIDC issued the Request for Proposal (RFP) for the property consultant only in October. The RFP says the consultant will be paid a percentage of the revenue earned by GIDC after the land is auctioned while also requiring the successful bidder to pay Rs 2.5 crore as performance guarantee. GIDC’s terms and conditions say that no payment will be done at the start of the consultancy. “Money will be paid only when the land is auctioned off and sold. Some companies were asking for mobilization advance because they have to incur some advance expenditure,” said an official who attended the pre-bid meeting. Jones Lang LaSalle Inc, KPMG International, Ernst & Young (EY) and a few other companies participated in the pre-bid meeting but did not submit a bid. GIDC intends to auction off 24 lakh sqm of land, starting with 5 lakh sqm. “A good consultant will be able to get better revenue in the shortest period of time. But GIDC should pay at least to cover the expenses of the consultant. If they are extending it on similar terms, then it is of no use because the big firms will not bid,” said a representative of one of the global firms that participated in the pre-bid meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/success-fee-clause-keeps-consultants-for-gidc-away/articleshow/79500589.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 1, 2020||Madurai||HC tells advocates to pay rent dues of chambers||Madurai: Madras high court on Monday sought details on the pending rent dues and details of vakalat filed by advocates during past five years in a plea, which sought to commence the works of constructing additional advocate chambers at HC Madurai bench campus. The court was hearing the petition filed by an advocate, S M Ananthamurugan, a resident of Madurai. The state government informed the court that the construction of additional 84 advocate chambers at the second floor of the existing advocates chambers have commenced and it would be completed by 2022. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that several persons who have occupied the advocates’ chambers have not paid the rent dues. Hence, the judges directed the advocates to pay the rent dues soon, else actions would be taken to cancel the allotment of the chambers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-tells-advocates-to-pay-rent-dues-of-chambers/articleshow/79500561.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||Drive to curb nCoV spread in Khed firms||Pune: The Khed tehsil administration has launched a special ‘Mazi Company Mazi Jababdari’ drive to check the health of employees working in the industrial zones and contain the spread of Covid-19. The administration intends to cover around 40,000 employees working in the industrial zones of Chakan, Rajgurunanagar, Alandi and Markal in the tehsil. BB Gadve, the tehsil health officer of Khed, said, “We told the medical units of the companies to keep check of the health details, mainly oxygen saturation level and temperatures of each employee. If they notice an abnormality, they have been advised to send the employees to get tested for Covid-19 at a nearby Covid Care Centre. So far, we had 20 such people at Mahalunge centre, but they all tested negative.” Vikrant Chavan, sub-divisional officer of Khed tehsil, said, “We noticed maximum companies have taken adequate measures at their level.” Dilip Batwal, secretary of the Federation of Chakan Industry, said, some companies had to stop production as many employees tested positive. “Many roped in more doctors to strengthen their medical care system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drive-to-curb-ncov-spread-in-khed-firms/articleshow/79499247.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 1, 2020||Pune||Production in district up 6%: MCCIA survey||Pune: A monthly survey of 150 industrial units by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MCCIA) found that production in Pune district increased by 6% to 78% in November. The surveyed units also reported that 82% of their employees were back at work, up from 77% in October. “A point of concern is the condition of micro units and the informal sector, which hasn’t picked up. Also concerning is the state of the travel, tourism and hospitality sectors, which will take some time to catch up,” MCCIA director-general Prashant Girbane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/production-in-district-up-6-mccia-survey/articleshow/79499253.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Return-of-property pleas arduous and expensive||When Malabar Hill resident Paresh Mehta requested a magistrate court to return his wife’s Rs 50 lakh worth diamond earrings stolen from their home and recovered by police, he had to furnish a surety of Rs 1 lakh and an indemnity bond of Rs 50 lakh.  Lawyer Janhavi Gadkar, out on bail after being booked in an alleged drunk driving incident that killed two, had to furnish a similar bond of Rs 25 lakh to reclaim her Audi. Daily, scores of suspects and victims file “return of property” pleas to reclaim items seized from crime scenes or recovered during a probe. The bonds they execute serve as security against which seized articles are released. In most cases, they cannot be disposed until end of trial and have to be produced when called for by the court. Essentially, solving of a crime or recovery of stolen goods could be merely the first step in a long process to retrieve one’s property. Property seized in crimes can elude owners for yearsIn 2016, Zaibunnisa Sayed whose husband Sayed Mustafa was killed in a road accident allegedly caused by a rash driver, sought permission of the sessions court hearing the case to sell off his damaged taxi. She said it was reduced to scrap in the accident and could not be repaired. The plea was granted – it was one of those rare instances in which a court allowed an article or goods seized during a probe to be disposed of before the trial concluded. Items which form pieces of material evidence in criminal cases or are required to be identified in a trial are often kept in custody until the verdict. This is regarded as useful in case there are multiple claimants for the same article in future. In Zaibunissa’s case, the court directed cops to take pictures of the vehicle, have it authenticated and certified and also prepare a detailed panchanama so. It said these could be used as evidence. While returning properties, courts usually reason that if the articles are left unused for prolonged periods there’s possibility of damage. In October, a court allowed the release of a bike seized by Bandra police after its owner was booked for violating lockdown norms. Directing the offender to execute a bond of Rs one lakh, the court said the vehicle may get damaged if it stayed idle for long. “Considering the present pandemic situation, the vehicle may be released in favour of the applicant.” While jewellery, cars and phones are obvious items that most would want to reclaim, television sets, printers, air conditioners and even clothes are frequently claimed. Agripada-based Yogesh Thakkar had to furnish a bond of Rs 8,500 for five pairs of jeans, an old pair of trousers and shirt, and a mobile stolen from his home earlier this year. The process can be arduous. In a recent case, a Sewri family miraculously managed to get back stolen jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh four days after their house was broken into. Robbers threw the loot back into the house after a complaint was filed. The family’s joy was however shortlived as police took away the valuables and told the victims to claim it from the court. A Chembur resident whose iPhone was found by cops three months after it was stolen in August 2017, took an additional two weeks to finally get his hands on it. After identifying his phone at the police station, the 27-year-old had to hire a lawyer and make an application before the magistrate’s court. “The entire procedure could have been much easier if it had taken place at the police station itself. It took three court dates to get my phone back. The first was when the application was submitted, second when the matter was heard and decided with cops filing a reply and third when I furnished the indemnity bond. While the lawyer’s fees was around Rs 5,000, I had to furnish an indemnity bond of Rs 15,000 for the two-year-old phone,” he said. Disposing items despite the court’s riders can invite legal trouble as in the case of Ramadhar Rajbhar, father of a murder accused, Vijay Rajbhar, who recently told the trial court that the tempo purportedly used to dispose of the bodies of the two victims had been sold. In 2016, while allowing his plea for return of property, the court said he was not to dispose the vehicle. Last week the court issued a bailable warrant against Ramadhar after he failed to be present and produce the vehicle. He could now forfeit Rs five lakh he had executed as an indemnity bond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/return-of-property-pleas-arduous-and-expensive/articleshow/79500993.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Widening work at airport approach road begins||Madurai: The state highways department has taken up widening work of the Madurai airport’s approach road to enable hassle-free vehicular movement. The stretch of about 1.5 km is being widened at the cost of around Rs 9 crore to provide four-lane road with a centre median, foot path and a storm-water drain provisions. Officials from Madurai airport said that once the project is completed, they will take up beautification work of the centre median with decorative plants, trees and adequate lighting facilities. At present, the lighting between the stretch between Perungudi and the airport is inadequate and the road is also in a bad shape. While approach roads to other airports in the state are maintained aesthetically, beautification of the approach road to Madurai airport, which witnesses 1.2 lakh passengers in a month, is a long overdue. An official from the state highways department told TOI that the approach road, which was owned by Madurai Corporation and the local panchayat, was recently handed over to the state highways department. The widening work taken up recently will be completed by March 2021, he said. Widening of Madurai-Tuticorin Road has also been taken up. As part of the widening process, multiple culverts are being constructed as small channels are passing through the road, he said. He added that it is a part of a Rs 40 crore assorted works project, which includes widening of road stretches in Sivaganga Road, Alagarkovil Road and Arapalayam Bus Stand road and providing centre medians at seven key roads in the city. Madurai airport director, S Senthil Valavan said that the approach road will undergo overhaul and will give an aesthetic look in six months. Various beautification ideas are being discussed at present and they will start implementing them very soon, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/widening-work-at-airport-approach-road-begins/articleshow/79500563.cms||V Devanathan
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Poverty, lure of easy money pushes up juvenile delinquency rate in AP||Visakhapatnam: The involvement of juveniles in crimes is on the rise across the state. Over 15 juveniles have been apprehended for criminal activities in Visakhapatnam over the last two months while in some cases, juveniles were the mastermind behind the crimes. As many as 1,832 juveniles and 1,10,555 adults were apprehended under various sections of IPC in Andhra Pradesh in 2019. Incidents of minors involved in cases of snatching, robbery, theft and rape have also been reported in the state. Speaking to TOI, additional deputy commissioner of police (crimes) Venugopal Naidu said there are many reasons behind the increasing involvement of juveniles in crimes, such as financial issues, lure of easy money and attraction towards a lavish lifestyle. A majority of juvenile offenders are school dropouts and addicted to various vices, he added. In Andhra Pradesh, more than 77% of juveniles and over 96% of adults arrested in 2019 were first-time offenders. However, police noted that some juveniles continue to carry out criminal activities as a means of earning easy money. A senior police officer said some repeat offenders lure school dropouts with cash, liquor, mobile phones and bikes. In some cases, juveniles have also been involved in clashes and murders to take revenge on rivals. DSP-rank police officer A Narasimha Murthy said a lack of parental control can lead juveniles to commit crimes. He appealed to parents to keep a watch on their children to ensure they do not develop an addiction and the need to check dropout rates in schools and colleges. Activists said poverty is also one of the main factors driving teens to crime. They asked police and parents to take corrective measures and act against persons who recruit juveniles into criminal gangs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/poverty-lure-of-easy-money-pushes-up-juvenile-delinquency-rate-in-ap/articleshow/79497949.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 3 of family end lives after killing pet dog||MADURAI: A woman and her two daughters ended their lives by hanging at their house in Malaichamipuram near Othakadai barely four months after the woman’s husband died of health problems. Police said they poisoned their pet dog to death before taking their own lives. The deceased were A Valarmathi, 38, and daughters A Agila, 20, and Preethi, 17. Valarmathi’s husband Arun was a building contractor and they were living in Trichy before shifting to Madurai a couple of years ago. They shifted to Malaichamipuram at the insistence of Valarmathi’s sister Saraswathi, who lives in the same village. However, tragedy struck the family when Arun, who was ailing for sometime, died in July leaving the family members distraught. Unable to cope with his demise, they went into a state of depression. At one point, Valarmathi brought her brother’s daughter Megala, 12, to cheer up her daughters. However, police said they could not come out of the state and decided to end their lives. They tried to slit their wrists before hanging themselves from the ceiling of the house on Sunday night. The incident came to light on Monday morning when Saraswathi’s husband went to check on them. A police team led by Othakadai police inspector (in-charge) Parthiban reached the spot and shifted the bodies to the Government Rajaji Hospital. Valarmathi left behind a detailed suicide note asking her mother to take over the properties and gold jewellery belonging to them. She mentioned that Arun’s family should not take part in their final rites. Police said the family did not seem to have received any support from Arun’s family after his death. In the suicide note, Valarmathi mentioned that all their properties were purchased by Arun with his hard-earned money. Hence, his family should not be allowed to have any claim over it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-of-family-end-lives-after-killing-pet-dog/articleshow/79500565.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Truck owners protest in front of RTOs||Madurai: Members of the truck owners’ association staged demonstrations in front of three regional transport offices in Madurai on Monday urging the state government to allow them to purchase equipment such as speed governors and vehicle tracking systems from the open market. The protesters say that the state transport department has restricted them to purchase the equipment only from the a few approved companies which sell them at an exorbitant price. Although they have obtained orders from the high court allowing them to buy them in open markets, RTOs are not providing fitness certificates for vehicles fitted with equipment from the open market. A group of truck owners staged demonstrations at central, north and south RTOs on Monday morning highlighting their demands. C Sathiah, state vice-president of the lorry owners’ association, said that while speed governors and vehicle tracking system have been made mandatory by the transport department, they are sold at exorbitant rates in the companies specified by the transport department.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/truck-owners-protest-in-front-of-rtos/articleshow/79500568.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kochi||‘Mango’ most wanted symbol in Muthalamada||PALAKKAD: In Muthalamada ‘mango city’, majority of the candidates, including party nominees for the grama panchayat elections, had been vying for ‘mango’ as their election symbol. In 2010, three candidates won on mango symbol, one of them S V Selvan became panchayat president and another standing committee chairman. Thus there is a belief that ‘mango’ is a lucky election symbol. Selvan is now contesting as independent in ward 12, but he is upset as the coveted symbol was allotted to his rival. In ward 17, R Aravindaksham of BJP who won on mango symbol in 2010 election is contesting this time too on the same symbol. M Thajudeen, chairman of Mango Producers Company, who won earlier as CPM candidate, is now contesting as independent on mango symbol. LDF-supported candidate Khadeeja Moosa in ward 19, Welfare Party candidate B Hakeem in ward 18 and SDPI candidate Nisha Nazar in ward 15 are all contesting on mango symbol. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mango-most-wanted-symbol-in-muthalamada/articleshow/79497979.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||State govt misusing SHGs for poll: MP||Madurai: Member of Parliament Su Venkatesan on Monday said that the AIADMK government was trying to misuse government machinery for its election-related works by roping in self help group (SHG) members. He told newsmen that SHG leaders in each ward have been asked to get forms filled up by 25 members from their respective wards with details such as polling booth, person in-charge of the booth and mobile phone number. The details are being collected by the project officer (mahalir thittam), Madurai district who also conducted a meeting with the SHG members on Monday morning. Venkatesan said that since there is no connection between SHG members and election work, he questioned the need for collecting data from them and holding meeting. “Madurai district collector should conduct an inquiry against the project officer. This sort of violation should not be allowed anymore,” the MP said. CPM state executive committee member K Kanagaraj said that using SHG for political activity is an indication of the nasty politics the ruling dispensation could engage in for the upcoming election. CPM’s Madurai urban unit secretary R Vijayarajan said that most of the roads in the city are unfit for commuting especially in the places where smart city scheme projects are being carried out. He urged the city corporation to take up laying roads at once.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/state-govt-misusing-shgs-for-poll-mp/articleshow/79500566.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||Spurt in cancellation of train tickets in Pune rail division in November||PUNE: The cancellation of train tickets in the Pune railway division increased by over 60% in November compared to the previous month. Over 1.14 lakh passengers cancelled their tickets in November, according to the figures shared by the railway division. The number stood at 71,448 in October. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of Central Railway, told TOI that the increase in cancellation of tickets could be related to the rise in Covid-19 cases in different states. Authorities said besides the pandemic, there were other reasons. “People coming from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa now need to carry an RT-PCR test negative report, failing which they have to go through a rapid antigen test at the stations. The regulations say if the antigen test is positive, passengers concerned will have to go to the Covid care facility. This has scared many passengers. Also, the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi, Punjab and Haryana is a big contributing factor,” another railway official said. Mundhwa’s Pawan Sharma, who had planned to travel to Delhi in the first week of December, decided to cancel his ticket. “I have not re-booked until now. There is a lot happening in and around Delhi in terms of protests and I don’t want to take the risk of getting stuck with my family,” he said. Not just the Pune division, the number of train ticket cancellation in November has been on a steady rise in other divisions also.“Around 42 trains, mostly long distance special mail and express, are passing through or originating from the Pune division daily. The number has dipped considerably compared to the pre-Covid times. Before the pandemic, the Pune station alone used to record passenger traffic of more than one lakh each day. Now, it is around 1,600,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/spurt-in-cancellation-of-train-tickets-in-pune-rail-division-in-november/articleshow/79499261.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Two undertrials escape from Midnapore prison||MIDNAPORE: Two undertrial prisoners, who were transferred from the Dum Dum Correctional Home, escaped from Midnapore Correctional Home on Monday. The duo, identified as Mithun Das (35) and Manojit Biswas alias Raju (31), were found missing when the correctional home officials were taking attendance on Monday evening. Das, a resident of Barasat, and Biswas, a resident of Ultadanga in Kolkata, were transferred to the Midnapore Correctional Home on May 25. While they were earlier at the Dum Dum Correctional Home, the duo were transferred after there was a jail-break attempt at Dum Dum. According to police, they might have climbed the wall on Monday morning and escaped. When the correctional home officials found the duo missing during evening attendance, they immediately alerted police. Officers from Kotowali PS started a search immediately after that. They had questioned the jail staff on duty and were trying to figure out if there was any involvement of an insider. Police have started search operations with the photographs of the duo at Midnapore bust stand and railway station. The Midnapore Correctional Home authorities did not comment on the issue. Police said that they have come across some links that might help them to track the duo down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-undertrials-escape-from-prison/articleshow/79499262.cms||Sujay Khanra
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Minor raped; building residents try to cover up incident||VIJAYAWADA: In yet another incident of minor rape, a five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 55-year-old man at Undavalli under Tadepalli police station limits in Guntur district. The five-year-old is the daughter of a watchman at an apartment. The incident came to light on Monday after local media reported the incident and how residents of the apartment tried to hush up the matter by arm-twisting the watchman to head to his village and lay low. According to Tadepalli police, they took suo moto cognisance of the news report and conducted a preliminary inquiry. Police said that after a woman police officer found reasonable prima facie evidence of rape, they registered a case under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Sources said that the incident took place at a private apartment situated in Undavalli Centre. Police said that since the accused happens to the brother of a railway employee, fearing humiliation, apartment residents convinced the watchman to take his daughter and lay low in his village. However, police said that they are yet to receive a formal complaint from the watchman about the incident and stated that he would be returning from his village on Monday night. “We had summoned the watchman and his family. Further action would be taken after we collect the statement of the watchman,” a police official at Tadepalli police station said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minor-raped-bldg-residents-try-to-cover-up-incident/articleshow/79497960.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Madurai colleges keen to continue online classes||Madurai: Even as the state government announced that colleges and universities could reopen for final year PG students and PhD research scholars from December 2, there was a lack of clarity on the matter in Madurai. While Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) authorities were yet to take a decision on Monday, most colleges in Madurai said that though they are prepared, online classes were still preferred. “With online classes on, we are not feeling so rushed for college to reopen. Safety comes first and we have to consider our parents’ and family’s opinions. So far, we have not been asked to come to college. But, college reopening will be useful for practical work since all these months we could do it only virtually,” said a final year MSc Chemistry student from a city college. American College principal Dr M Davamani Christober said that permission is yet to be officially granted for reopening on December 2. “We are hoping to continue with online classes only for all students and perhaps consider reopening by January. Many of the students are also staying at their native places,” he added. Colleges are wary of the response from parents since there were still many who were not ready to send their students back to campus. “Safety of students is a priority for us. We are allowing only those students who have permission from parents to come to college from December 2. The faculty will be in campus and the classes will be continued online as well. The labs will also be open for students studying science subjects,” said Dr Christianna Singh, principal, Lady Doak College. The principal added that classes on the campus would be only voluntary and the faculty will finish the classes online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-colleges-keen-to-continue-online-classes/articleshow/79500571.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||No more cycles on main roads, urge Kolkata traffic guards||KOLKATA: Several traffic guards in the city want the relaxation on cyclists to be withdrawn, citing indiscipline on the road that is leading to accidents, and re-introduction of Metro and suburban trains that have increased commute options. With the relaxation notification, issued on November 1, lapsing on November 30, Kolkata Police top brass is still in two minds on the issue.  Over the past six months, Kolkata Police had extended the relaxation on cyclists. But it is doubtful whether the extension will be granted again on Tuesday. TimesViewIt is true that cyclists have proved to be a dangerous addition to the city’s thoroughfares; most disregard traffic signals and imperil their own lives as well as others’. But, before doing away with cycles from thoroughfares altogether, traffic cops could perhaps take another shot at disciplining cyclists. It would be sad if the experiment with an environmentally clean mode of transport suffered a setback only because of users’ lack of discipline.Officers who manage traffic on the road aren’t comfortable about cycles on main roads. Multiple traffic guards, especially in central, north suburban and south suburban, want the curbs against cycles to return. “The traffic is near normal during office hours. The bicycles on roads are slowing down the traffic,” said an officer from a central Kolkata traffic guard. With public transport still not back to pre-Covid level and distancing measures in place, cops aren’t sure whether withdrawing relaxation will be correct. “We have not arrived at any decision. We are aware of ground situation and the needs of commuters,” said DC (traffic), Rupesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-cycles-on-main-roads-urge-kolkata-traffic-guards/articleshow/79499269.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 1, 2020||Madurai||Cases down, but death rate in Madurai climbs in November||Madurai: Though the number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Madurai fell from above 2,000 in October to less than 1,000 in November, the death rate due to the disease this month has seen a marginal increase. Further, more than half of the Covid-19 deaths in November occurred within 72 hours of admission to hospital. A total of 945 fresh Covid-19 cases and 16 deaths were recorded in Madurai district in November. Out of the 16, only four deaths were at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and the others in private hospitals. Though there were 28 deaths in October, the month’s death rate was 1.37% as against 1.69% in November and 1.53% in September. The overall Covid-19 death rate in Madurai district is also at 2.22% and continues to be much higher than the state average. Of the total Covid-19 deaths in November, 53% of the deaths were of patients who died within 72 hours of admission to hospital whereas in October the percentage of such cases was only 33%. “Not all cases are the same and so we cannot pinpoint that late admission to hospital is the reason for the deaths. Also, in some patients, the phenomenon of ‘Happy hypoxia’ is prevalent. In such case, patients may not even realise it when their oxygen saturation levels drop until their condition becomes severe,” said Dr Varun Ramamoorthy, ICU head at a private multi-speciality hospital. ‘Happy hypoxia’ is a condition observed in some Covid-19 patients wherein oxygen saturation levels drop but patients don’t experience breathlessness until the levels drop significantly. “Some people may brush off symptoms as being just fever in such case. Sudden fall in oxygen saturation levels can become life-threatening. Rather than admission to hospital, the time of onset of symptoms must be considered. Often, it takes at least three to five days for symptoms to show considerably,” said Dr Varun. Meanwhile, doctors from both government and private sectors said that the volume of patients requiring critical care of Covid-19 has considerably declined compared to previous months and hence deaths are also expected to decline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-down-but-death-rate-in-madurai-climbs-in-november/articleshow/79500573.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 1, 2020||Trichy||Traders streamline operational hours of Gandhi market||Trichy: As the Trichy police have framed restrictions over the movement and entry of heavy vehicles during day time in the city, traders in Gandhi market have streamlined their operational hours. The operational hours of Gandhi market has been divided by allowing the retail vegetable sales only in the day time while wholesale trading can be done in the night to avoid overcrowding and traffic congestion, traders have decided.Based on the interim directive from Madras high court on November 26, the market closed due to Covid-19 lockdown was permitted to reopen after a period of eight months. The shops in the market were handed over to the traders on Monday. Wholesale vegetable operations in the market will be restricted between 9 pm and 5 am while retail vegetable sales shall be permitted only between 5 am and 2 pm. About three hours every day between 2 pm and 5 pm, sanitary workers will clean the facility. Traders, between 6 pm and 9 pm, will only be permitted to carry out their accounts and documentation work. “The working hours of the Gandhi market was revised to avoid overcrowding, facemask rule will be followed. While we assure to abide by the restrictions, the common public should follow the same,” Ve Govindarajalu, president, Trichy Gandhi market all kinds of wholesale and retail traders association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-streamline-operational-hours-of-gandhi-market/articleshow/79500998.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: First female donor of the year gives life to three||KOLKATA: A 40-year-old uneducated tribal woman from a remote Bengal village has given a new lease of life to two men and a woman in the city on Sunday after her death. Alahadi Murmu, a resident of Mahadeb Chowk in Midnapore, was declared brain dead at SSKM Hospital’s Trauma Care Centre (TCC), after which her liver and two kidneys were transplanted into three different recipients on Sunday. All the recipients are recuperating well. The fourth organ donation during the pandemic as well as the sixth in Bengalthis year came from an extremely poor and unlettered family living in a Midnapore village. Murmu is also the only woman deceased donor among the six. While walking back home from work in their small agricultural land last Tuesday evening, the woman was knocked down by a speeding truck. She had sustained severe head injuries. According to her family members, she was first rushed to Midnapore Medical College, from where she was shifted to IPGMER’s (Institute of Post Graduate Medicine and Research) TCC. “Doctors said that my wife would not be alive any more, despite being on the ventilation support. They advised us to donate her organs that will save the lives of some patients who were on the verge of death. We promptly agreed,” said the woman’s husband Handulal. There have been cases of numerous refusals by educated families to accept brain death and donating organs or backing out in the eleventh hour. “We thank the family of the deceased donor for their courage and spirit and hats off to the transplant coordinator team for their job,” said IPGMER nephrology professor, Arpita Ray Chaudhury. The liver was transplanted into a 50 year-old man at Medica Superspecialty Hospital. While her one kidney was allocated to RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RITTCS), IPGMER was allowed to take the other for a woman. Even as the donor’s heart was in good condition, no matching donor could be found. “Our kidney recipient, who is a 30-year-old man from Howrah, was suffering from end stage renal disease. He is recuperating well post the transplant surgery,” said nephrologist, Pratik Das of RTIICS. “This shows that education and poverty have nothing much to do with organ donation. It is the timely identification of brain death and family counselling with empathy and conviction that matters much,” said Vatsala Trivedi, physician and a pioneer in organ donation movement in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-female-donor-of-the-year-gives-life-to-3/articleshow/79499295.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Candidates of adivasi collective to impact polls||PALAKKAD: Attapadi Adivasi Action Council, a new collective of tribespeople, have put up 35 candidates in the total 48 local body seats in the Attapadi tribal heartland. The new entrant could affect the vote share of mainstream rivals the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF). Majority of the local body seats here are reserved for tribespeople. In the 21 seats of Agali grama panchayat, only 4 are in general category; Pudur 2 and Sholayur 3. Thus the tribal votes will decide the outcome of the election. The entry of the new Action Council has made both LDF and UDF jittery. BJP has influence only in a few pockets of the tribal heartland. Though the Action Council candidates have no political affiliation, they are contesting on the election symbol ‘elephant’ of Bahujan Samaj Party, which has no following in Attapadi. But the election symbol of these tribal candidates have been allotted on request. After the brutal lynching of a tribal youth Madhu in Chindakki in February 2018 for allegedly stealing some food items from a shop rocked the state, the tribal youths got orgnized under the banner of Adivasi Action Council. They are fighting for land and employment, and to end corruption in tribal development projects in Attapadi, said P V Suresh, leader of the Action Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/candidates-of-adivasi-collective-to-impact-polls/articleshow/79498020.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 148 cases, central dists 124||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 148 Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the tally to 1,29,333, which include 1,113 active cases, 1,26,153 recoveries and 2,067 deaths. The active cases were above 1,000 in the region for the 4th day. In the central region, Ariyalur also joined Perambalur in reporting zero Covid case on Monday. The region comprising eight districts including Trichy recorded 124 fresh cases taking the tally to 70,673. The most number of new Covid-19 cases were reported in Dindigul (33), followed by Madurai (32) and Kanyakumari (24). With 243 and 151 active cases respectively, Madurai and Dindigul districts have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Kanyakumari (138). Except for Tirunelveli (126) and Tuticorin (122), all other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (20) having the least number of active cases 20 active cases. Barring Tuticorin (12) and Sivaganga (11), all remaining districts, Tirunelveli (9), Virudhunagar (8), Theni (7), Tenkasi (6) and Ramanathapuram (6) recorded new cases in single digits on Monday. The single Covid-19 death in the region reported on Monday was in Virudhunagar. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. In the central region, Ariyalur has been reporting fresh cases in single digits for the past few weeks. While the district had so far recorded 4,562 positive cases, the district had only 24 active cases as on Monday. The district’s death toll is 48. Perambalur recorded nil cases for the second consecutive day. It may be noted that the number of active cases of the district also was reduced to single digits of late. The district had only two active cases on Monday as the district discharged 4,590 patients out of 4820 patients who turned positive so far. The death toll of Perambalur is 47. Thanjavur (33) had reported the highest number of fresh cases taking the tally to 16,419. Trichy and Nagappattinam recorded 26 cases and 23 cases. The number of active cases in the region is 998, while the total number of discharges is 68,776.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-148-cases-central-dists-124/articleshow/79500588.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||Frequent flyers rue RT-PCR test hassle, want alternative from Maharashtra govt||PUNE: The Maharashtra government’s decision that people reaching the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat either need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report or have to undergo the test at the arriving airports has left frequent flyers in a fix. “I fly to and from Delhi at least eight to 10 times. In December, I have a packed schedule and will fly to Delhi at least eight times on business. These trips do not stretch for more than a couple of days. I wonder how many times I will have to take the RT-PCR test at the airports, since it is not always possible to get tested in advance and carry the report,” Pune resident R K Jadhav said. Sadiq Hasan, another businessman and frequent flyer, has the same view. “It is a bit of a relief that the government has at least clarified that people taking connecting flights via Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa do not need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report or take the test on arrival. But I travel to Delhi and also Ahmedabad at least six to seven times each month. How many times do I have to take the test?” Chandrashekhar Shegaonkar, president of the MIDC Industries Association, Hingna in Nagpur, told TOI, “Business people have to fly a lot to different places. For us, going through an RT-PCR test or carrying a negative report each time we travel is cumbersome. The state government should think about an alternative.” An IT firm employee said, “Since travelling has resumed, it is important for us to meet our partners and clients face to face, start things over and review our partnerships and plans. The test costs Rs 1,600 at the Pune airport. We have to pay the amount whenever we travel. I fail to understand why frequent flyers should keep undergoing the test.” Travel agents agreed that the RT-PCR regulation was a genuine problem for frequent flyers. “This is one of the reasons why some are enquiring about connecting flights to reach Pune. We have been requesting them to reschedule their meetings in other states in such a way that they can attend more meetings in one trip and not have to travel frequently. But they have their own schedules to stick to,” said a representative of a travel company. Airport authorities said they couldn’t do much at this moment. “These are government norms and one has to abide by those. But I think that these regulations will be in force only till the rising Covid cases are controlled,” a Pune airport official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/frequent-flyers-rue-rt-pcr-test-hassle-want-alternative-from-govt/articleshow/79499289.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 1, 2020||India||Ex-chief secretary of Goa gets 2-year RI, secures bail||PANAJI: A special CBI court in New Delhi has sentenced former chief secretary of Goa R K Srivastava to two years rigorous imprisonment and Rs 35,000 fine in a case pertaining to the revival of a defunct housing society in Delhi using forged documents, the agency said in a statement. Later, he secured bail in the case. Srivastava was convicted for his involvement in the revival of Delhi-based Shree Radhakrishna Co-op Group Housing Society Ltd on the basis of false/forged/bogus documents when he was the registrar of co-operative societies, New Delhi, the agency said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-chief-secretary-of-goa-gets-2-year-ri-secures-bail/articleshow/79501524.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||With spending embargo lifted, work at Saligao, Cacora waste treatment plants resume||Panaji: Expansion of the solid waste treatment plant at Saligao and construction of a similar facility at Cacora in Curchorem has resumed with the state government lifting the embargo on expenditure and with migrant workers returning. An official of the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) said the work should get done by December 2021, but will be subject to how the Covid-19 pandemic plays out. “Additional machinery and new sheds are being built at Saligao and the work is going on at a brisk pace. Once complete, the waste will be processed in a segregated manner,” the official said. At present, the facility processes wet and dry waste under one roof, but with an investment of close to Rs 100 crore, the plant will get additional space and machinery to process waste. Hindustan Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd is increasing the capacity of the plant to handle 250 tonne per day. Construction on Goa’s second solid waste treatment plant at Cacora has also resumed with a mobilisation advance being disbursed, said officials. Though work on the facility had started in December 2019, the pandemic and the exodus of migrant workers brought construction to a standstill. The plant, which will have an installed capacity to treat 100 tonne of waste per day, will process garbage from Sanguem, Quepem, Dharbandora and Canacona. The Rs 174-crore facility is being built by Vasudha Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd while GSIDC has prepared its design. “Hopefully, both the plants will be ready by next December. That is the target for now,” said a senior GSIDC official. Meanwhile, the proposed solid waste management plant at Bainguinim awaits a contractor. Goa Waste Management Corporation had floated the tender for the facility in September but has repeatedly extended the last date for bids, the latest being January 4, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-spending-embargo-lifted-work-at-saligao-cacora-waste-treatment-plants-resume/articleshow/79500592.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gold price dips below Rs 50,000 after 5 months||AHMEDABAD: Following the decline in gold prices in the international market, with growing optimism over the Covid-19 vaccine, the price of the yellow metal dipped to Rs 49,900 per 10g on Monday. This is the first time in five months it has slipped bbelow the Rs 50,000-mark. Analysts said clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccines showing effective results has led to an increase in investors’ risk appetite, causing gold prices to fall. Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA), said, “As spot gold prices in the international market fell below $1,800 per ounce to $1,766.26 on Monday, the gold price in the Indian market dropped to below the Rs 50,000-mark for the first time in 160 days. There is a recessionary trend globally and due to the economic slowdown, people are not investing in gold and are rather selling old gold due to which prices are falling.” The second wave of Covid-19 infections coincided with the peak of the wedding season and this is expected to hurt jewellery demand, according to industry experts. “The typical big fat Indian wedding has changed completely with small guest lists and events being limited to a day’s affair. The purchase of gold is also getting limited in terms of quantity. Most transactions are being made by exchanging old gold,” said a city-based jeweller. Several gold jewellery exhibitions have also been cancelled. Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said, “The spurt in demand which was seen around Diwali has again taken a hit with the second wave of coronavirus infections. With the cancellation of weddings, order books are taking a hit. Moreover, purchase sentiment has weakened due to a recessionary trend visible here with the GDP shrinking for two quarters straight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-dips-below-rs-50k-after-5-months/articleshow/79499330.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||ACB books 29 govt employees in 11 months||AHMEDABAD: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Gujarat registered cases for disproportionate assets (DA) against 29 employees of the state government in the last 11 months. These include three class-1 officers, eight class-2 officers and 18 class-3 employees, officials said on Monday. The cumulative market value of the alleged DA, including land and residential properties, is estimated at Rs 40.47 crore, the ACB said, adding that it has launched a special drive to unearth benami and ill-gotten properties. Eight of the accused were earlier employed with now-defunct Gujarat Land Development Corporation (GLDC), the officer said. Other accused were attached with departments of urban development, revenue, panchayat, irrigation, PWD, Gujarat Pollution Control Board, police, education, forest and environment, health, and mines and minerals, said officers. They were booked under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act and under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act. The ACB on Monday booked one Kalubhai Ram, a retired class-3 engineer of state irrigation department, for allegedly possessing disproportionate assets worth Rs 1.38 crore, which are 97.71 per cent more than his known sources of income. Ram, who retired a few years back, had deposited Rs 22 lakh in his bank accounts during his service between 2005 and 2013, said officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acb-books-29-govt-employees-in-11-months/articleshow/79499335.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kochi||Politicians not even vying for our votes, say agitating tribesmen in Kerala||THRISSUR: Tribespeople who have launched an agitation demanding land and other rights in front of the forest office in Peechi are worried that political leaders are not even taking notice of their six-day-old stir, despite the intense campaigning for upcoming local-body elections. The agitation was launched under the banner of the jilla tribal samithi (district tribal council). Protesters have pitched a tent in front of the forest office. We are complying with Covid-19 protocols and very few volunteers are participating in the agitation, said samithi leaders. There are about 6,000 tribals, belonging to 1951 families, staying in roughly 65 ooru settlements in the district, according to tribal development department officials. “We have raised various demands of the tribal population but political leaders have not even approached us to understand our situation, let alone for any negotiations,’’ said T C Vasu, a samithi leader. “We see politicians making extensive efforts to pander to the desires of their various vote banks while we are being neglected. Does that mean political parties are not desirous of the votes of tribal communities? They confine their campaigns to the oorus,” said Ratheesh Olakara, another leader. We are looking to highlight the fact that tribal families of Olakara, who stay in small dwellings, are yet to receive any land of their own. Political leaders and mediapersons must visit the communities to understand their plight, said Vasu Similarly, the tribals who were rehabilitated at Kallichithra to make way for the construction of Chimmony dam in the 1990s are yet to receive the full quantum of promised land. Even courts have issued directions for transfer of land, but the issue remains unresolved, said samithi leader M A Kuttan. We also want the government to extend the special recruitment of tribals into its departments. They are not getting their due share even under the NMR category. Moreover, tribal cooperative societies are also not functioning in the interest of tribal communities because of the political control over them. Authorities must take steps to change this situation, Olakara said. Vasu said the district committee will meet again on December 7 to formulate plans to intensify the agitation, if the demands are not met by then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/politicians-not-even-vying-for-our-votes-say-agitating-tribesmen/articleshow/79498074.cms||T Ramavarman
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Charges of obscenity to be added in prohibition cases||Ahmedabad: In a bid to up the conviction rate in prohibition cases, the Gujarat police will now register stricter complaints against drunkards and besides booking them under prohibition laws, the accused will also be charged with obscenity or indecent behaviour in public.The cops used to add the charges for indecency and obscenity in certain cases only, but now in every case the charge of obscenity will added under Sections 110 (behaving indecently in public) and 117 (which has provision for punishment for various indecent public behaviour) of the Gujarat Police Act. A police officer said that the state police will soon issue circular to all the commissionerates, SP offices and police stations to slap charges of indecency and obscenity against those accused of prohibition violations. “At present, a person caught drunk is booked under Sections 66(1)(b) and 85(1) of the Prohibition Act which deal with consuming or using liquor and creating a nuisance and using foul language, respectively. By adding the two sections of the Gujarat Police Act, the prosecution will be able to establish that the conduct of the accused was indecent which may help in getting more convictions,” added a police officer. If a person is convicted for being drunk and creating a nuisance, he or she can be jailed for up to three years. “Even though the state government had introduced stricter prohibition laws, loopholes in the investigation and prosecution work in the accused’s favour. Prosecution agencies find it difficult to prove cases in court but if more charges are added there are greater chances of making a watertight case against the accused,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/charges-of-obscenity-to-be-added-in-prohibition-cases/articleshow/79499378.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Trichy||MLA inspects inundated areas in Trichy||Trichy: Trichy west DMK MLA K N Nehru on Monday inspected the inundated residential areas on Vayalur Road locality of the city. The residents had complained about the poor response from the civic body in draining the rainwater. Locals said that as there was no provision for the rainwater to discharge on its own, algae is forming on the surface of the stagnant water. Vacant plots inundated with rainwater have also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes, the residents complained. Inspecting the Renga Nagar residential area, the MLA instructed the engineering section officials with K Abishekapuram zone of Trichy Corporation to take up immediate measures for draining the stagnant water. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mla-inspects-inundated-areas-in-trichy/articleshow/79501070.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF’s virtual rally on Saturday||Thiruvananthapuram: UDF will organize a virtual election rally on December 5 as part of the local body poll campaign. UDF convener M M Hassan said lakhs of people will take part in this rally. The rally will highlight the anti-people policies of the LDF government and the corruption charges it faces . Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala will inaugurate the virtual rally at 12 noon. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, UDF convener M M Hassan, former chief minister Oommen Chandy, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty, Kerala Congress leaders P J Joseph and Anoop Jacob, RSP leader N K Premachandran, CMP leader C P John and Forward Bloc leader Devarajan will address the rally. On Dec 2, UDF will organize “Jankeeya Sadassu”, a mass gathering against corruption by LDF government. In every panchayat this gathering will be convened for one hour from 5pm, wherein all UDF candidates of local body polls will take part. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udfs-virtual-rally-on-saturday/articleshow/79498091.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||After 7-week slide, Covid-19 cases & deaths rise mid-November||Nagpur: After a seven-week low in Covid positive cases as well as deaths, the last two weeks of November witnessed a rise. Experts have predicted continuation of cases in December, and a possible spike from the second week of January. November recorded 8,979 cases which was 52% of the cases registered in October and five times less compared to cases in September. After 5-6 weeks of peak, from the third week of August till the end of September, cases started to decline from the last week of September and the trend continued in October. The low continued till the first two weeks of November. The daily average of tests was 4,532 and positive cases were 269 in the first week followed by 3,941 tests and 243 cases in the second week. The number of tests increased to 4,872 per day and cases to 285 in the third week followed by 6,425 tests and 378 cases in the last week. Same was the case with deaths. The district registered 269 fatalities in November which was 43.53% of the deaths registered in October and 5 times less compared to the number in September. The daily average of deaths came down to 9 in the first week of November and 7 in the second. The number increased to 10 per day in the last two weeks. “Cases are likely to increase in December and January as the pandemic is expected to spike during winter and reduce in summer. Another issue is people not following guidelines like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, avoiding crowds etc,” said consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe. People delaying diagnosis and admission is another major worry. “The situation improved a lot in October and during the pre-Diwali period in November. Post-Diwali, many patients were found to be in a critical condition. Timely testing and treatment can control deaths,” he added. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Cases are either likely to go down or remain static in December. Cases may probably spike after the second week of January.” Experts feel that chances of multiple peaks within a short span of time are likely. “During the first wave, the district witnessed 5-6 weeks of peak. It seems that such a situation may not come again and cases may increase and decrease in small bursts,” he added. Recoveries were more than positive cases in the first 17 days of November, but just the opposite happened in the remaining 13 days. “The number of cases increased in the last two weeks of November mainly due to festivals. With the government anticipating a second wave, we must be alert. The administration is ready to deal with any situation. We are planning new technologies for better bed management in government as well as private hospitals in case of spike in cases. The next 15 days are very crucial. Therefore, we will intensify awareness activities and launch a special campaign to ensure that people wear masks and follow guidelines,” said municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-7-week-slide-covid-19-cases-deaths-rise-mid-november/articleshow/79499401.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat cops warn of fake recruitment advertisement||AHMEDABAD: In times of pandemic when most people are looking for jobs, scamsters are also ready to cheat them. However this time, before people could be cheated with lure of jobs, Gujarat Police have put up an advisory on their website cautioning people not fall for fake job ads. In a recent advisory through CID crime, Gujarat police have clarified that recently there was an advertisement in several newspapers in the name of National Rural Education Mission for recruitment of different posts with salary packages ranging from Rs 42,500 to 40, 500 for five posts. “People giving such advertisements demand fees for filling up the form and vanish with lakhs,” said a senior police official. The advisory further states that the authorised domain for Gujarat government is gov.in and in this advertisement that domain is not there and hence it is fake. The advisory also mentions that Gujarat government has not taken out any such recruitment drive and such advertisement when given, are published by the government approved board. DGP, CID crime T S Bisht said earlier to such cases have come on record that scamsters give recruitment advertisements in newspapers and collect form filling fees from the candidate and then vanish. “We have put the advisory to caution people to stay away from such advertisements. We also urge people to come and report to us if they have fallen prey to such advertisements. We will conduct a probe and bring the perpetrators to book,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-warn-of-fake-recruitment-advertisement/articleshow/79499396.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nov brings some relief, but last 2 wks cause for concern||Nagpur: The Covid situation, which peaked in September, was significantly brought under control in October with nearly 50% reduction in cases. The same trend continued in November with a further 50% decrease in the number of cases. Compared to more than 90,000 cases in September, November recorded 28,034 cases. However, the last two weeks of November reported more cases. Experts have already termed it as a seasonal peak and nothing to with the second wave but authorities are leaving nothing to chance. They are ready with the infrastructure. As reported earlier by TOI, the number of Covid RT-PCR tests have shown multifold increase in Vidarbha since Diwali which is one of the main reasons behind the increase in the number of new cases. Doctors had blamed public movement during Diwali holidays and relief in travel restrictions for the rise in new cases. Reduction in the number of deaths due to Covid in November came as a big relief. November reported 535 deaths, lowest in the last three months and lesser than even August (1,202). Aggressive testing, early reporting and good facilities in hospitals are the reasons behind the less number of deaths. Amravati division has shown better Covid control compared to Nagpur division. Positive cases and deaths in Amravati have been low compared to Nagpur, especially in the last two weeks. The reason could be that Amravati division is already past its peak whereas districts from Nagpur division are experiencing it now. In the beginning of November, there were four districts in Vidarbha with more than 10,000 Covid cases. By November end, seven districts crossed the 10,000 mark. Four of them are from Nagpur division. Chandrapur has witnessed the sharpest rise in the number of cases and deaths in November. The district reported more than 4,000 cases and 67 deaths in November. Akola, which peaked during the early phase of the infection, has seen the lowest number of cases and deaths in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nov-brings-some-relief-but-last-2-wks-cause-for-concern/articleshow/79499423.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 1, 2020||Goa||MiG-29 wreck found 65km off Goa, but no sign of pilot||Panaji: The Indian Navy has found the wreckage of the MiG-29KUB fighter jet about 65km from Goa’s coastline and is now scouring the vicinity for the missing pilot, commander Nishant Singh.  “Intensive aerial, coastal and surface search by Indian Navy ships and aircraft is in progress to locate the second pilot. Underwater search by divers and seabed mapping using specialised equipment in the vicinity of primary wreckage of MiG-29K is being undertaken,” said a naval official. The downed Russian-built fighter, which disappeared on November 26 while on a training sortie from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, had two pilots on board. One pilot was rescued by search and rescue teams, but Singh, a qualified flight instructor remains missing. Nine warships and 14 aircraft, including the Indian Navy’s P-8I and the Indian Air Force’s C-130 are part of the frantic search efforts. Naval divers are also scouring the wreckage for further clues. The navy’s diving support vessel INS Nireekshak is on site as some of the debris is at a depth of 200 feet where the visibility is poor. The Indian Navy had found debris from the landing gear, turbo charger, fuel tank, engine and wing engine cowling a day earlier. The MiG-29KUB is a trainer version of the Navy’s frontline fighter jet. The jets were inducted at INS Hansa in 2013, but since then have been plagued by engine reliability issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mig-29-wreck-found-65km-off-goa-but-no-sign-of-pilot/articleshow/79500608.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||State’s daily data shows 698 fewer Covid-19 deaths in district||Nagpur: Discrepancies in Covid-19 daily data of the district are continuing. There are 698 fewer deaths recorded with the state government as compared to the data released by district civil surgeon (CS) here. When it comes to positive cases, the government data shows 2,024 more cases.As per daily data of November 27 released by the state’s public health department (PHD), there have been 2,938 fatalities in the district. As per daily data released by CS, there were 3,636 deaths, for a difference of 698.TOI had on October 30 reported discrepancies in daily data of the district between public health department, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and CS. At that time, 388 fewer deaths were recorded with PHD, and this number has only increased.As per PHD, city’s fatalities were 2,354 whereas they were 2,521 as per CS for a difference of 167. The difference is lesser in rural. As per PHD, there were 584 deaths whereas figure was 622 as per CS, for a difference of 38.Here, there is discrepancy between data of CS and Zilla Parishad (ZP). There were 659 deaths as per ZP, which is the authority for rural.As per CS, 493 deceased were from other districts of Vidarbha and adjoining states, who tested positive and died in the city. But there is mention of these deaths either in city or rural or separately in PHD’s report.Following TOI’s report, guardian minister Nitin Raut had directed officials here to ensure there were no discrepancies in daily data of the district. CS had reconciled the data on October 31 and matched it with the figures of NMC. The daily data of CS and NMC are same as on date.As far as positive cases are concerned, the situation was totally opposite. The number was more by 6,442 with PHD as on October 30 when compared to data of CS. Following TOI’s news, CS had reconciled 7,357 cases on October 31.Still, the cases are high with PHD. The district’s cases are at 1,12,813 as per PHD whereas they are at 1,10,789 as per CS, for a difference of 2,024.In case of city, PHD has recorded 86,405 cases whereas CS has 87,530, for a difference of 1,125.There is huge difference in cases of rural areas. As per PHD, there were 26,408 cases whereas it was 22,584 as per CS, for a difference of 3,824.As per CS, 675 cases from other districts were registered here.There is no difference in data of CS, NMC and ZP when it comes to positive cases.The authorities here, CS (nodal agency for district), NMC (for city), and ZP (for rural) upload number of deaths on portal of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Positive cases are uploaded by NMC, ZP, government and private-run laboratories. NMC and ZP take data from ICMR portal and pass on to CS, who releases daily data of the district. PHD also takes data of the district from the same portal. Still, discrepancies have continued in the district data.CS Dr VD Paturkar did not respond to TOI’s call and messages.TABLEDeaths——- District —- City — Rural — Other districtsState- 2,938 —- 2,354 —- 584 — NILCS- 3,636 —- 2,521 —— 622 —- 675Difference- 698 —— 167 — 38POSITIVE CASES—-District ——— City —— Rural — Other districtsState- 1,12,813 —- 86,405 — 26,408 — NILCS- 1,10,789 — 87,530 — 22,584 — 493Difference- 2,024 — 1,125 — 3,824||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/states-daily-data-shows-698-fewer-covid-19-deaths-in-district/articleshow/79499415.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 1, 2020||Pune||Worries soar over Std XI syllabus despite 25% cut||Pune: The limited time of four or five months for students of standard XI to finish their syllabus is making both parents and teachers anxious. The delay in admissions had led to the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) to impart online FYJC classes in November which halted after 10 days. Principals say proper management, extra classes, cutting down of vacations would be needed to complete the syllabus on time.“The online classes have not ended. There was a Diwali break after November 10, and hence there were no classes after that. We had over 1.2 lakh students register for these classes and thousands of views on the uploaded videos. It will restart in December,” Vikas Garad, deputy director, SCERT, Pune, said. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said her college is going to start their own online classes for standard XI from December 2. “The syllabus will not be completed by February or March. It would need at least three extra months to complete it. Moreover, standards XI syllabus is vast and students do find it tough. Hence, it cannot be rushed,” Sinnarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worries-soar-over-std-xi-syllabus-despite-25-cut/articleshow/79499414.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tools, software help stem cheating and plagiarism in college exams||PUNE: Colleges and private universities in the city are finding ways to deal with operational and practical challenges like cheating, plagiarism, customization and bandwidth issues of digital channels. Tools and software for online proctoring during high-stake exams, identification verification, auto-detection of plagiarism in assignments are various needs that colleges and universities are investing in for maintaining transparency in education and assessments. Symbiosis Institute of Business Management is using enhanced tools to solve these issues, director and Dean, faculty of management at Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Ramakrishnan Raman said. Turnitin is one such software used to promote academic integrity, streamline grading and feedback, deter plagiarism, and improve student outcomes. Raman said, “Turnitin’s formative tools fosters an environment of integrity and authenticity in SIBM Pune’s classroom and helps make the feedback and revision processes easier for both students and teachers.” The university is also using the Safe Exam Browser to carry out e-assessments safely, auto-detection of plagiarism in assignments is done using the anti plagiarism software. Head of department of mechanical engineering at MIT School of Engineering, Sudarshan Sanap said the current pandemic situation has thrown a challenge to every organization. The MIT Art, Design and Technology University, being a new generation university, is equipped with digital learning platforms. “We are emphasizing the use of digital platforms like TCS-iON, Webex, Google Meet, Microsoft Teams, and Zoom to make virtual teaching-learning platforms much easier,” an official said. At Ajeenkya D Y Patil University, the learning management system is successfully planned, developed, and implemented. The university has procured unlimited server space with AWS Cloud servers with enhanced security-based access. The university has an inbuilt examination and assessment system which ensures tight controls in terms of CCTV surveillance as well as laptop and desktop mounted cameras to ensure sanctity of the examination. Director Hrridaysh Deshpande said, “The university has undertaken implementation of Urkund, an anti-plagiarism software from Sweden. The School of Engineering has successfully developed an in-house meeting tool called Scholars with the help of the students and faculty as part of its startup initiative Rigbetel Lab LLP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tools-software-help-stem-cheating-and-plagiarism-in-college-exams/articleshow/79499404.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight offences under GujCTOC against 97 accused: DGP||AHMEDABAD: To curb organized crime and terrorism, Gujarat police have registered eight offences under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and organised Crime Act (GujCTOC) against 97 persons. The latest being the one registered against 14 members of one ‘Asif Tameta Gang’ in Surat on November 27, 2020. DGP Ashish Bhatia said he directed police across the state to act strict against organized crime and those who terrorise people in any way. “I also told them that they have to see that the law is not misused in any way,” he added. Bhatia said the aim behind invoking GujCTOC is to contain crime and acts of terror by organized gangs and terrorists. According to sources, the first offence under GujCTOC was registered on March 9, 2020 by Savarkundla police of Amreli in which Sonu Dangar and eight of her gang members were booked. “Since then, eight offences have been registered under GujCTOC against 97 accused of various gangs,” said a senior police official. In Ahmedabad, the act was invoked against gangster Vishal Goswami of Uttar Pradesh and five of his gang members for several armed robberies and murders. The second offence in Ahmedabad was registered against Sultankhan Pathan and 11 of his gang members from Juhapura. Another case was registered in Jamnagar against Jayesh Ranpariya and 13 of his gang members for alleged land grabbing, murder and extortion. Former deputy commissioner of police of Ahmedabad crime branch, Deepan Bhadran, was specially transferred to Jamnagar to act against the Jayesh Ranpariya gang. Rajkot rural police have invoked this act against 11 accused. Rajkot police invoked the act against 12 persons of the Nikhil Donga gang. Dhragandhra police invoked this act against 29 members of the Gediya gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-offences-under-gujctoc-against-97-accused-dgp/articleshow/79499418.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy colleges ready to welcome students||Trichy: While the state government has allowed colleges to reopen for final year undergraduate students from December 7, the decision is expected to help students especially from science discipline to get hands-on training in the laboratory. Along with online theory classes, some of the colleges were resorting to various techniques to teach practical sessions to students which can only be effectively taught in a laboratory. While the physical laboratories are at the institutions, engineering college teachers were videographing the experiments by performing them in laboratories and sending them across to the students apart from live-streaming the sessions. Colleges are also making use of the virtual labs available in the open source to teach practical sessions. Welcoming the move to reopen the colleges for final year students, V Sujatha, principal, Cauvery College for Women, Trichy said practical sessions would be the priority so that they get hands-on training. “It is good to give the students practical exposure through laboratory experiments as many of the teachers felt that practical sessions through virtual mode weren’t effective,” said R Sundararaman, principal, National College Trichy (NCT). However, the decision to reopen colleges has come at a time when many of the autonomous colleges have scheduled online semester examination for final year students. S Ismail Mohideen, principal, Jamal Mohamed College (JMC) Trichy, said that the syllabus for final year seventh semester students has been completed. “While the examination is scheduled for December 7, the state government allowed reopening of college for final year students. We may have to postpone reopening for a week to conduct the exam,” he said while ruling out the possibility of offline exam in such short notice citing logistic issues. He said he is expecting a detailed direction from the higher education department on the same. Sujatha said that as a preventive measure against Covid-19, they are planning to call half the students for three days a week while asking the rest to attend classes from home through video conferencing. For the next three days, the students who attended classes from home will come to college and others will attend from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-colleges-ready-to-welcome-students/articleshow/79501085.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 1, 2020||Pune||First child-friendly police station opens||Pune: The city police on Monday inaugurated its first-ever child-friendly police station on the premises of the Cantonment police station with an aim to ensure an unintimidating and friendly environment to children, who are either juvenile delinquents or victims of different crimes. Director of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, Abhay Karandikar and Pune city police commissioner Amitabh Gupta inaugurated the police station. The new facility gains prominence as the police stations are often the first agency a child comes in contact with while reporting or being suspected of any crime. “Police will work closely with the Hope for Children Foundation — working for juvenile justice in Pune — to ensure a safe space for the juveniles. The cases will be dealt more sensitively here,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-child-friendly-police-station-opens/articleshow/79499457.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Rain flushed out dengue mosquito larvae, says Greater Chennai Corporation||CHENNAI: Rain triggered by cyclone Nivar didn’t just rid Cooum, Adyar rivers and other waterways of heaps of garbage and sewage. In all likelihood, the downpour would have washed away dengue mosquito larvae and eggs as well, believe Greater Chennai Corporation officials. With this, they say the risk of dengue is all but over for the city this year. “Usually, after the heavy spell of rains during the northeast monsoon, dengue cases drop,” an official said. This is buttressed by the fact that cases usually drop to almost nil in December. In November this year, the city has recorded around 15 dengue cases and only around 90 for the entire year so far. In comparison, the city recorded 570 cases in the first 11 months in 2019. This could end with 2020 going down as a year when Chennai did extremely well on the dengue front. Most dengue cases are recorded in September and October. For instance, in 2019, 96 dengue cases were recorded in September and 153 in October. This year, the months saw 4 and 9 cases. Officials, however, said will be no room for complacency and said field visits to check terraces of houses for water stagnation will continue. “The dengue mosquito, Aedes, lays eggs in stagnant water. The optimum temperature for their breeding is 25C to 30C. During northeast monsoon, the heavy rains wash away its eggs and larvae and the temperature in December drops below the optimum levels for their breeding,” the official said. The civic body is likely to conduct a study next year on the impact the lockdown had on dengue cases and its spread in the city. Currently, a review of literature on the spread of the disease in Singapore and Malaysia is underway, where cases have been high, an official said. The city has also witnessed a 17% drop in complaints of mosquito menace this year, which the civic body attributed to use of more machines to clear waste floating on water bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rain-flushed-out-dengue-mosquito-larvae-says-gcc/articleshow/79499467.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kochi||King Kong to Lavan vie for attention here||ALAPPUZHA: The local body poll in Alappuzha district has its share of uniqueness due to variety in the names of candidates in the fray. Lavan, Kusan, ‘Mantri Ashokan’ and King Kong are some of the candidates with curious monikers in the polls this time. It is for the second time that 49-year-old Lavan, the ward member of Mannar grama panchayat in Alappuzha, is trying his luck in the local body poll as the candidate of BJP. “My twin brother Kusan is not active in politics. Both of us are working as painting contractors. People can easily identify us as our names are unique. My parents have six sons and one daughter. All of us were given names from Hindu Puranas. People will not forget us once we meet them due to the specialty of our names,” Lavan said. C Kusan, 52, is a candidate of LDF contesting in ward five of Aryad grama panchayat. “ It is for the first time I am contesting in an election. I have been working with CPM since my younger days and took part in agitations of DYFI and CPM. In 2005, I was hospitalized for around 25 days after I was severely injured in an agitation of DYFI against then UDF government led by Oommen Chandy. My twin brother Lavan is a government employee and he is a member of CPI. It was our grandmother Kaumari who gave the names of Lava and Kusan for us. She was a regular reader of Ramayana,” Kusan said. The 57-year-old K King Kong, candidate of UDF from ward 1V of Mararikulam north grama panchayat, never expected this much attention in this election due to his name. “I faced problem due to my name only during the search for a girl for my wedding. Some girls refused to marry me because of my name. My wife Usha, a home maker, is fond of my name. It was my father and my elder brother who were fans of King Kong gave me this name. K King Kong, who has never seen a film of King Kong in his life, is confident that he will be the first King Kong becoming a ward member,” he said. The NDA candidate of ward 12 of Thuravoor grama panchayat is called ‘Mantri Ashokan’. “I got this name during the visit of then Alappuzha collector Paul Antony in connection with the formation of IHDP colony in Thuravoor in 1992. When the collector came, I was busy there with then ward member Thuravoor Ravi collecting complaints of the public. Then the collector quipped that I will become a mantri (minister) as I was busy like a mantri,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/king-kong-to-lavan-vie-for-attention-here/articleshow/79498153.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Agra||66 fresh Covid positive cases in Agra, district tally 9,231||AGRA: At least 66 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 9,231. The patients included two junior doctors of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and a staffer of the district hospital. Besides, there were four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 85 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 9,231 cases reported in the district, 90.7% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 704 on Sunday, to 685 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.6%. So far, 8,381 people have been cured."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/66-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9231/articleshow/79497150.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||8,900 more open category seats for FYJC admissions||Pune: Tuesday is the last day to submit part I of the First Year Junior College online admission forms, and December 2 is the last date for making changes in the option form (part II). But officials said since the number of seats under the open category have increased, students must check the first cut-off list for each college and then change their preferences in the form. Meena Shendkar, assistant deputy director for Pune division, said there are more seats in the open category and students applying for the second round can review their option form. “About 8,900 seats were reserved for SEBC students which are now converted into the open category in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Hence, there are more seats in the open category and students who missed out on admission by a small difference of marks can reapply. Secondly, students who had previously applied under SEBC quota need to now review their own preferences in the option form and equate it with the open category first cut-off before submitting form 2. Depending upon the vacancy of seats in a college and the closeness of your SSC marks to the first cut-off marks in a college, the students should fill up their option form,” she added. Previously unregistered students, those whose admissions were rejected or cancelled in the first round and those who were out of the CAP process because they did not take admission in a college of first preference can also apply in the second round.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8900-more-open-category-seats-for-fyjc-admissions/articleshow/79499441.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Crime hub Hasanbagh is now an MD hotspot||NAGPUR: Crime hub Hasanbagh has turned into a hotspot for dealers and peddlers of Mephedrone (MD) drug. After arresting two Hasanbagh-based peddlers last week, the special cell of the crime branch nabbed Mohd Owesh Mohd Shafi Shaikh with 135 gms MD drugs worth Rs5.4 lakh. A resident of Hasanbagh, Shaikh was trapped at the bus stop near the old Vidarbha Cricket Association stadium on Sunday, a follow up to the four arrests made by the crime branch a day before which resulted in the seizure of 256 gms of MD. The four arrested by the crime branch in the previous operation by the team of senior inspector Sarthak Nehete were receiving the drug supply from Mumbai-based Amir Khan Atik Khan. In the latest raid, Owesh was arrested for collecting a consignment of 135 gms of MD from Atik, who had sent it from Mumbai. It’s learnt that Atik had paid Rs5,000 to Owesh to collect the drug parcel from the bus stop and deliver it to the customer. Police said the call details of the five accused will help in making more arrests. Hasanbagh is learnt to have turned into an MD hub after Atik came down from Mumbai for a visit. He had introduced MD to Hasanbagh through gangsters Abu and Javed Baccha. Another big MD peddler, Mohd Amir Malik, who is now on the run, met Atik through Baccha and Abu. It’s learnt that more raids on MD racketeers are expected in the coming days with operations being supervised by Addl CP Sunil Phulari, DCP, crime, Gajanan Rajmane and ACP Sudhir Nandanwar under the supervision of CP Amitesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/crime-hub-hasanbagh-is-now-an-md-hotspot/articleshow/79499528.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman accuses in-laws of groping||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman has lodged a complaint against her father-in-law Ashok kumar Lachwani, younger brother-in-law, Vijay, sister-in-law Rita Dayalani and husband Bhagyesh kumar Lachwani at Sardarnagar police station for mentally and physically torturing her for giving birth to a girl child. The complainant has also alleged in the complaint that her father-in-law and younger brother-in-law used to enter her room when she breastfed her daughter and used to touch her at inappropriate places and say it was like seeing a blue film. She has alleged that on November 15, her husband had beaten her and thrown her out of house. Since then she has been living with her parents. Sardarnagar police officials said they have registered a case against the accused under Section 498(A) , 323, 204 (b) and 114 and are verifying the details mentioned in the FIR before acting. According to the FIR, the complainant was married to Bhagyeshkumar in April 2016. She has alleged in the complaint that after giving birth to a girl child, her in-laws started harassing her on petty household issues. The complainant has even alleged that when she was pregnant, her father-in-law, and not her husband, used to take her to the doctor which made her feel embarrassed. Police sources said, the woman has claimed in the FIR that after the delivery, instead of her husband, her father-in-law used to bring sanitary pads for her, which was shameful for her. The complainant has also alleged that her husband demanded dowry of Rs 25 lakh to purchase a new shop and that her sister-in-law verbally abused her over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-accuses-in-laws-of-groping/articleshow/79499473.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Ride around Chennai in 2.5 hours on a train||CHENNAI: When phase-2 begins operation in another six years, commuters could circle the city touching northern and southern suburbs in about two and a half hours in a single train ride. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has planned a circular route that will take passengers from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur and back via Adyar on the east and CMBT on the west of Chennai, covering 81km. This circular route will link corridors 3 and 5 and is similar to the direct line operated in phase-1 linking Central Metro to Airport via CMBT across corridors 1 and 2. Work for the construction of 118.9km phase-2 has begun and is expected to be ready by 2026. According to officials, the circular route will follow the line from Madhavaram-CMBT-Sholinganallur-Adyar and Madhavaram with seven trains operated every hour at an 8.5-minute frequency. Passengers wanting to commute from Perumbakkam on corridor-5 to Perambur on corridor-3 or from Taramani on corridor-3 to Thirumangalam on corridor-5 could board the train. Trains on this route would also take commuters from Porur junction to stations on OMR, such as Perungudi or Karapakkam in a single train ride. Though the destinations could also be reached by switching trains at interchange stations, commuters could save time by taking a single train ride. The detailed project report of phase-2 states this circular train operation, besides catering to the traffic on corridor-3, will also cater to an estimated traffic of 5,171 passengers between Madhavaram to MMBT and an estimated 35,714 passengers from MMBT to Sholinganallur on corridor-5. Since trains will also be operated independently on all the three corridors, by 2055, there will be one train operated every 3.5minutes between MMBT and Sholinganallur route alone. From the operational side, officials recommend this circular route as it requires fewer trains — around 21 three-car rakes and 15 six-car rakes by 2025 and 37 six-car rakes by 2055 — than the number of trains required to operate on the routes across three corridors independently. By 2025, CMRL may require 36 three-car rakes and by 2055 40 six-car rakes to operate metro rail service independently on corridor-3 from Madhavaram to Siruseri SIPCOT and on corridor-5 from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ride-around-city-in-2-5-hrs-on-a-train/articleshow/79499519.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Pune||Social media helps traffic cops nab rule violators in Pune||PUNE: Social media platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp have come to the aid of traffic police in their efforts to increase compliance of traffic rules on the city roads. The department has issued thousands of e-challans based on the violations reported by citizens on these platforms, before and after the lockdown, this year. TimesViewCommunity policing through apps and the use of CCTV cameras has helped ease the police's burden of tracking traffic offenders. This should spur the police to take their vigilance to the next level and crack down on the menace of wrong-side driving, triple-seat riding, speeding and jumping signals. These violations are continuing with impunity even as the police seem to have placed their focus these days more on the wearing of masks.According to deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame, several citizens have been reporting traffic violations they witness with photographs and exact locations. “This is sort of community policing that is aimed at increasing compliance of traffic rules and improving safety on Pune roads. Many reach out via social media to report offences such as no parking, triple-seat riding, unattended vehicles, among others. Our team scrutinizes uploaded photographs, followed by spot visit whenever required or e-challans are issued directly,” he said. Shrirame said the number of violations reported on social media have increased since the lockdown eased and more vehicles started plying on the roads. While the department had launched a mobile application ‘Satark Punekar’ to facilitate citizens in registering complaints about traffic violations, it has hit technical glitches. “Due to technical difficulties, we are able to see the violations reported on Satark Punekar after a lag. However, we are working on resolving the issue. Meanwhile, a statewide application called Mahatraffic is also enabling citizens to register traffic violations they have witnessed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-media-helps-traffic-cops-nab-rule-violators/articleshow/79499496.cms||Rujuta Parekh
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Strong gusts push up wind power generation||AHMEDABAD: Wind power generation across the state surged substantially with stronger winds blowing over past few days. The average wind power production jumped to 1,808MW on Sunday, which was almost six times the 315MW generation registered on Monday last week. The electricity generated from the wind energy sources was even higher at 2,753MW, 3,365MW and 3,440MW on Saturday, Friday and Thursday respectively, shows daily data compiled by the Western Region Load Dispatch Centre (WRLDC), which is a central government entity.  The generation was as low as 16 MW on Tuesday. “The wind speed has accelerated over the past few days, which has pushed up wind power generation the state. The production had even crossed 3,000MW mark on Thursday and Friday last week,” said K K Bajaj, a city-based energy and regulatory expert. With electricity generated from wind being cheaper than the conventional power, higher wind power generation is beneficial to consumers. According to the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers Association (IWTMA), Gujarat’s current installed wind power generation capacity is 7,542 MW.  The state also added 1,468MW wind power generation capacity in 2019-20, which was the highest among all Indian states. Gujarat currently ranks second in terms of installed generation capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/strong-gusts-push-up-wind-power-generation/articleshow/79499522.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kochi||‘Mangha chechi’ promises ward’s infrastructure development||ALAPPUZHA: Thushara S, 34, a mango seller, is fondly known as ‘Mangha Chechi’ among children in her village. She has now decided to take a political plunge and has approached villagers seeking vote to be their ward member. Her poll symbol is no surprise — a mango. Thushara, a graduate in Economics, is an independent candidate from ward 3 (Aravukad) of Punnapra South grama panchayat. She was a kabaddi player. “I was the captain of Kerala senior kabaddi team and Kerala University kabaddi team. I was also a member of the Federation team. Though I am a graduate and kabaddi player, I could not try for a government job. Soon after graduation, I got marriage. I now live with my parents and my son Goutham, an eight-grade student. Mango trade runs in our family. My father is known as ‘Mangha Ponnappan’. He collects mangoes from various parts of the district during the season and selling it is my responsibility. That’s how children started calling me ‘mangha chechi’. When not selling mangoes, I work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA),” said Thushara. Thushara’s grandfather A K Bhaskaran had taken part in Punnapra-Vayalar agitation. She complains of lack of basic infrastructural facilities in her ward. “The condition of our roads is very pathetic. People cannot even walk through our village roads. My women collegues in the MGNREGA programme asked me to contest in this election for the development of my ward. Thus, I decided to contest, and as per my wish, I got mango as my poll symbol,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mangha-chechi-promises-wards-infra-development/articleshow/79498194.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Agra||150 Agra trucks stranded in Punjab, Haryana||AGRA: Amid the ongoing massive farmers' protests in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR, around 150 trucks laden with fruits, vegetables, groceries, garments, shoes and machine spare parts from Agra region have been left stranded at various locations on the national highways in Punjab and Haryana for the past 48 hours. Due to the disruption in the movement of these essential goods, transporters have cancelled existing bookings and new orders. Similarly, transporters from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have refused to operate through western Uttar Pradesh, for now. During winter, woollen clothes in large quantities are usually supplied in Agra region from Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar in Punjab and Sonipat and Panipat in Haryana. Besides, agriculture equipment, machine spare parts are supplied in parts of western UP from Karnal in Haryana and Kapurthala in Punjab. Medicines, fruits and vegetables in large quantities are also supplied to western UP from the two states. On the other hand, potatoes, shoes, leather products, chemicals, glass, handicraft items are sent to Punjab and Haryana from the Agra region. Virendra Gupta, managing committee member of the All India Motor Transport Congress, said, “Following the massive stir, the goods transport network has been significantly affected in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir. Around 150 loaded trucks of Agra region are stuck for over 48 hours. The actual number of goods carriers parked on highways in Punjab and Haryana is over 1,000. Besides, blocking the Singhu and Tikri borders, roads have been dug up by police at various places. The Centre should coordinate with the states to ensure the supply chain does not remain affected." Charan Singh, president of Agra Public Carrier Association, said, “More than Rs 60 crore worth of goods of Agra district is stuck in Punjab and Haryana. Bookings have been stalled. Transporters of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand are also not taking orders for supply of fruits and medicines to western UP. Transporters will suffer huge losses if the situation doesn't improve soon. Perishable items like fruits and vegetables in stranded trucks will start getting spoilt in the next 2-3 days." Echoing the plight of other truck owners, a machine spare parts wholesaler Anurag Gaur said, “At least 10 trucks carrying nut-bolt, engine and automotive spare parts, agriculture equipment, motors are stuck in parts of Punjab and Haryana. The entire supply chain is badly affected."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-stir-150-trucks-from-agra-withessential-goods-stuck-in-punjab-haryana/articleshow/79497159.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rajinikanth may end his political suspense today||CHENNAI: More than 24 years after making his first political statement that diminished the electoral prospects of the AIADMK in the 1996 assembly election, actor Rajinikanth has sought another 24 hours to end the suspense over his political entry. One of the Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) district secretaries, who took part in a meeting the actor convened on Monday, told reporters that Rajini would announce his decision “today or tomorrow.” A little later, Rajini told reporters in front of his Poes Garden residence: “The district secretaries have agreed to abide by whatever decision I take. I will announce my decision as soon as possible.” Several participants at the closed-door meeting at Raghavendra marriage hall told TOI that Rajini explained how his precarious health condition and the prevailing pandemic were the biggest impediments to his launching a political party. Finally, the 34 RMM functionaries authorized the actor to take a decision. “Avar arasiyal vazhkai katham katham (This is the end of his political life),” a senior RMM functionary told TOI, borrowing the words (katham katham) from Rajini’s 2002 movie ‘Baba’. “He (Rajinikanth) spoke at length about his health condition following the renal transplant he underwent and concerns about his vulnerable immunity and sought our views on what direction he should take,” said an RMM functionary from Chennai. “Rajini sir told us doctors had advised him that his immunity may be compromised even if he took a shot of the Covid vaccine,” said the functionary. The actor, sources said, held discussions with his family members as well. Arriving at the meeting venue in Kodambakkam, the actor got out of his car before putting on a mask. In his opening remarks at the meeting that began at 10am, Rajinikanth explained his health condition in the wake of a renal transplant he had undergone in 2016. His doctors had advised him against making any public appearance and that he was taking 14 tablets a day. “He virtually asked us to choose between his health and politics,” said a source. “We told him that his health was foremost.” Some of the participants reeled out statistics on vote share obtained by the DMK and the AIADMK when they contested alone, to drive home the point that with groundswell of support from people, Rajinikanth’s party can achieve more. In response, the actor told them there was no point in getting a 10%-15% vote share. The party had to be sure about winning. “When a district secretary suggested that Rajinikanth could plan a strategy to campaign from his home without venturing out, the actor said if he entered the political field, he should be free to meet people in person,” a source said. “But this would put the people and me at risk,” he quoted the actor as saying. “Am I not answerable for the safety of the people?” Trending on social media, meanwhile, was #RajinikanthPoliticalEntry. “That look, that pose says a lot. Wait for a positive announcement from Thalaivar,” tweeted a fan. “Tamil Nadu needs you for a political change,” said another. “Whatever be the decision, we are with you,” said some others. Watch Rajinikanth meets representatives of Rajini Makkal Mandram ahead of TN assembly polls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajinikanth-may-end-his-political-suspense-today/articleshow/79501526.cms||Jaya Menon
December 1, 2020||Goa||Development will destroy world heritage site: Old Goa locals||Panaji: Old Goa panchayats’ request to include a part of the village in Greater Panaji planning and development area (PDA) has upset some citizens, as they allege that greater density of development will destroy the world heritage site having 21 legally protected monuments. A few citizens have demanded that a special gram sabha be held to discuss the issue. The concept of a planning area is ill-suited to Old Goa - a pilgrimage centre, a tourist destination and a former capital city - with multi-layered history comprising evidence of Kadamba, Vijayanagara and Portuguese era, they said. “Old Goa is an unique heritage site in the entire state,” Glean Cabral, a social activist stated. “At the core of this village, there exist 21 legally protected monuments and sites of national and state importance, seven of these being inscribed in the Unesco list of world heritage sites,” Cabral stated in a memorandum to town and country planning (TCP) department. Criticising the declaration of parts of Old Goa as unconstitutional, he stated that some of the monuments are already suffering from structural distress due to accelerated water flow in the core area from the deforested buffer zone. Former sarpanch, Nilkant Bhomkar and his wife, Namrata, panch member of ward no 6, have also raised objections to the panchayat’s decision. The Bhomkars and Cabral - supported by around 100 villagers - have submitted two separate pleas to the panchayat to hold a gram sabha to discuss the issue. “This will completely destroy our heritage village. The floor area ratio can be allowed up to 300 with height of a building up to 30m,” Bhomkars stated in a plea for a gram sabha. They raised suspicions that the inclusion is to justify setting up of a solid waste treatment plant at Bainguinim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/development-will-destroy-world-heritage-site-old-goa-locals/articleshow/79500638.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Agra||BSP councilors stage protest against lack of development works in Dalit-majority wards||AGRA: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) councillors of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) staged a protest outsidemayor Naveen Jain’s residence on Monday, alleging lack of development in the municipal wards represented by members of the opposition party. They claimed that proposals on upgradation\ of roads, sewer and water supply infrastructure in Dalit-dominated localities are not being approved. Manoj Kumar Soni, leader of BSP group of councillors in the AMC board, said, “The AMC administration has been ignoring development works in wards represented by BSP councilors. These wards with majority Dalit population are least developed parts of the city. People in these wards have no access to basic civic amenities. We have been trying to get the problems related to roads, sewer and water supply addressed for the past several months, but no action has been taken. Therefore, we had to stage a protest outside the mayor’s residence.” After two hours of protest, mayor Jain came out to meet the councillors,, who handed over a memorandum to him. Jain assured them that their complaints would be discussed in details at the meeting scheduled on December 4. He directed officials to take suitable action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bsp-councilors-stage-protest-against-lack-of-devp-works-in-dalit-majority-wards/articleshow/79497172.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Cousin held for rape and murder of Pratapgarh kid||Udaipur: Police in Chhoti Sadri block of Pratapgarh district on Monday arrested a 22-year-old man who allegedly raped and brutally murdered his eight-year-old cousin in Meghpura village three days ago. The accused had a lust for the girl and on the fateful day he found the opportunity when his wife went to her parent's home and he knew his aunt and cousins were alone at night. He took the girl to a secluded place in jungle where he raped her. When the girl said she would tell everybody at home, the accused strangled and kicked hard on the girl's face to break her neck. He dragged her body from leg and threw it inside a dry well. Police found the girl's torn body from the eight-feet-deep well in the wee hours of Saturday. The incident has sent shockwaves across the district, triggering a firestorm in social media and the opposition condemning the state government for poor law and order. The villagers were so infuriated that they refused to hold the funeral unless the accused was arrested. Later after much conciliation, the funeral was held on Sunday afternoon. Udaipur Range IG Binita Thakur and Pratapgarh SP Chunaram Jat visited the village and instructed police to constitute teams that worked non-stop to solve the murder mystery. “It was the accused’s father Ranglal Mogya who informed police that the girl was missing. We rounded up more than 50 suspects in the village and ended up questioning Ghanshyam. We found blood stains on his jacket and some marks on his face,” Chhoti Sadri SHO Ravindra Pratap Singh told TOI. After thorough interrogation, the accused surrendered. Singh said the accuse’s father and the girl’s father were paternal cousins and children mingled with each other. The accused’s wife had gone to her parents home and the girl’s father had gone to Marwar to buy goats. Ghanshayam was drunk on Friday night and he went to his uncle's home past midnight where he picked up the sleeping girl. “The girl struggled to save herself and scratched on his face. When she threatened to tell her parents about it, the accused was terrified and he murdered her,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cousin-held-for-rape-and-murder-of-pratapgarh-kid/articleshow/79499520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Phones worth Rs 40L recovered by month-old police wing||Tirupati: Chittoor police on Monday recovered 227 stolen cellphones worth Rs 40 lakh after a month long operation. Speaking to media, Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar said that a technical analysis wing comprising 20 constables with technological backgrounds was formed on October 6 to investigate specialised crimes. “Following intense training, the technical analysis wing was directed to investigate the missing mobile phones’ cases registered over the last one year. Within a month of taking up investigation, the technical analysis wing managed to recover 277 mobile phones worth around Rs 40 lakh. These phones, which were stolen within the district, were recovered from five different states — Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana, Kerala and other parts of Andhra Pradesh” the SP said. “The technical analysis wing made the best use of technology during their investigation which helped ensure this huge recovery of stolen mobile phones,” the SP noted and urged public to immediately report their lost phones as they can be used for different crimes. The SP handed the phones to their rightful owners at the district police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/phones-worth-rs-40l-recovered-by-month-old-police-wing/articleshow/79498276.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||STPI to fund and monitor technology startups in Vizag||Visakhapatnam: In order to promote technology-based startup entrepreneurs, the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) will introduce a scheme in Visakhapatnam through which 100 selected companies will be floated by the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) as Next Generation Incubation Services (NGIS). “Next week we are going to start inviting applications from the start-up entrepreneurs. The applicants for this project should introduce technology-based startups and focus on technologies that are innovative enough to fulfil the mission of Atmanirbhar Bharat,” Visakhapatnam STPI in-charge, MP Dubey, told TOI. Under this scheme, MeitY had floated a venture capital fund to support startups and entrepreneurs from tier II and III cities to launch new technology products. The scheme will support around 300 start-ups for the next three years by offering Rs 25 lakh risk capital and Rs 10,000 internship per startup across the country. The process of selection under the NGIS scheme will be known as CHUNAUTI (Challenge Hunt Under NGIS for Advanced Uninhibited Technology Intervention). “In Visakhapatnam, we are going to fund and support around 100 startups. The entrepreneurs (applicants) can be residents from any part of the country. But they must be willing to operate their business out of this city,” Dubey said. STPI officials in Visakhapatnam are also in the process of having dialogues with experts and veterans in the fields of IT and BPO sectors. These experts would be roped in as advisers who would monitor the selected entrepreneurs. “We are not only selecting the entrepreneurs and funding them but also monitoring their growth. Experts and veterans in the industry would actually help us monitor these entrepreneurs. Despite lockdown we have successfully implemented the BPO Promotion Scheme (IBPS) in 2020 and are hopeful about this scheme as well,” Dubey said. On November 24, TOI had reported as to how the IBPS scheme had incentivised the BPO and IT business in the city even during the pandemic and the consequent lockdown with the scheme helping generate 10,000 direct jobs in these sectors between January and October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stpi-to-fund-and-monitor-technology-startups-in-vizag/articleshow/79498207.cms||Arpit Basu
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Resources diverted for Covid, Andhra Pradesh sees rise in AIDS cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state’s HIV positivity rate which had been coming down steadily over the past few years is now showing an up-tick. This, as testing for HIV has been adversely affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic with many viral load testing facilities converted into coronavirus testing labs. Fund allocation from the Centre towards the State Aids Control Society (SACS) too is reportedly inadequate for IEC (information, education and communication) activities. The positivity rate among general clients tested has increased from 1.3% in 2019-20 (till March) to 1.6% between April and October this year. There has also been a marginal increase in positivity among antenatal mothers. The HIV prevalence rate in Andhra Pradesh is around 0.3% with Visakhapatnam having a positivity rate of 0.25% being sixth in terms of prevalence rate among districts with 35,000 persons living with AIDS of whom 16,000 are on anti-retroviral therapy (ART) drugs. Speaking to TOI, district AIDS prevention control unit (DAPCU) programme manager KVR Sailaja said, “The viral load testing had almost stopped as the two ART centres in city (Chest Hospital and KGH) were being used as Covid testing labs. It has now resumed operations and hundreds of samples are being tested for HIV daily. Thousands of suspected cases as well as people living with HIV (PLHIV) are waiting to get tested as HIV+ persons also need to check viral load annually.” However during the lockdown, district health officials through NGOs and outreach workers had ensured that all PLHIV get at least three months supply of ART drugs so as to avoid disruption in regular drug intake. Covid-19 cases were found among very few HIV+ persons in the districts as per officials. Shortage of funds from the Centre over the last few years has become another hindrance in carrying out awareness and IEC activities. The National Aids Control Organaisation (NACS) routes the funds to SACS who in turn distributes the funds among districts. “Last year, our district was allocated Rs 30,000, while this year due to Covid-19, the allocation has come down to Rs 15,000 for the entire year. There is no separate allotment for IEC activities and advertisements. We try to manage with help from NGOs and philanthropists,” said a DAPCU official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/resources-diverted-for-covid-ap-sees-rise-in-aids-cases/articleshow/79498300.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 1, 2020||Chennai||IIT-Madras students get more pre-placement offers this year||CHENNAI: Students at Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M), have received 182 pre-placement offers this year, 12 more than last year (170) despite Covid-19 pandemic. The phase I of campus placements is scheduled to begin online on Tuesday. Companies looking to hire from the institute has also gone up from 244 last year to 252 companies registering this year. The companies have registered for 467 job profiles, around the same as last year. “The trend gives us reason be to optimistic,” said C S Shankar Ram, professor and advisor (training and placement), IIT-M. He said placements will not be affected by the pandemic and that students would obtain the best possible job offers in phase-1 placements. The institute has scheduled two sessions on day 1 of the recruitment drive and top companies with competitive offers will get the first pick. “We are following the same process we have had in the previous years to slot companies for virtual hiring too. The only change would be that candidates will attend the interviews online instead of in-person,” Shankar Ram added. Most of the usual recruiters have registered for the hiring while a few new recruiters were also in the line-up. The institute’s virtual internship drive this year started off on a great note with 17 companies participating and making 140 internship offers on Day 1. In 2019, 147 internship offers were made on Day 1. Highlighting the importance of internships on campus placements, N V Ravi Kumar, advisor (internships) at IIT-Madras, said, “Internships provide an excellent opportunity for students to understand the working culture and expectations of the companies that they train with and for the companies to realize the potential of our students during that short period.” The companies that floated the most pre-placement offers are Texas Instruments (12 offers), Microsoft (12), Qualcomm (10 offers), Goldman Sachs (9 offers) and American Express (9 offers).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/iit-m-students-get-more-pre-placement-offers-this-year/articleshow/79499536.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Gym trainer held over spat with collector||AURANGABAD: A gym trainer has been arrested on charges including “using criminal force to deter a government employee” after he got into a heated exchange of words with district collector Sunil Chavan and also allegedly tried to push his bodyguard on Sunday night. A local court on Monday remanded the accused, Shashank Wagh from Osmanpura, to judicial custody. Inspector Ashok Giri said the district collector’s car was forced to stop at the Ambedkar Chowk signal due to a traffic jam as the accused and a rickshaw driver were quarrelling in the middle of the road. “The accused started yelling and tried to push Ingle when he asked him why he was blocking the traffic. He did not bother to listen to the collector even after he introduced himself and asked him to make way and got into a heated exchange of words with him,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/gym-trainer-held-over-spat-with-collector/articleshow/79497190.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Coaching institutes in state await reopening nod||Nagpur: Coaching institutes in the state say the delay in granting nod to reopen seems to ‘defy logic’, considering that pretty much everything has opened up. This demand has picked up after the state allowed reopening of physical classes for Std IX-XII. Considering that coaching institutes cater to the same age group, owners feel there is no reason to hold back now. Rajnikant Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI), said, “We are all going to ensure that safety guidelines are followed. Students also miss the physical learning environment because that’s the best way to learn. We will definitely be taking up the issue with authorities and demanding permission to reopen.” The central government had given the green signal to reopen coaching institutes in its guidelines issued on September 30. The first point mentioned in the guidelines by ministry of home affairs (MHA) clearly states that coaching institutes may reopen after October 15. The final call, of course, was with the state government. Maharashtra government issued its own guidelines on October 14, and in annexure II, specifically said that coaching institutes in Maharashtra shall remain closed. Ravindra Thakare, Nagpur district collector, said the state government has to keep the local situation in mind before taking any reopening call. “As of now, coaching institutes have to stay closed. The latest unlock guidelines that have come do not mention otherwise. The status quo has been continued till end of December,” said Thakare. About state’s hesitance, despite MHA’s green nod from October itself, Thakare said, “We have to look at the Covid-19 situation and then decide. Regardless, it is always the state government’s prerogative to decide which activity can be allowed.” Coaching Federation of India (CFI), a national level organization representing institutes, says the need for physical reopening must be a priority for every state. Krishna Chaitanya Kasula, general secretary of CFI, said, “In some states institutes had started, then closed in some, and are going to reopen soon in few. In whichever state coaching institutes have reopened, we have seen over 80% attendance. This proves that both students and parents are keen to resume physical classroom teaching.” He added that need for physical teaching goes beyond doubt clearing and learning concepts. “When a student comes to class there is a peer connect. This is a crucial factor in shaping the child’s performance and attitude,” said Kasula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coaching-institutes-in-state-await-reopening-nod/articleshow/79499542.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Home dept suspends former addl SP of SOG||Jaipur: The home department on Monday suspended former additional SP of SOG Satyapal Midha (RPS) against whom an FIR was registered on charges of corruption. The department of personnel (DOP) will initiate an inquiry against Midha, an official said. An FIR was registered against him under Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018 and Section 120B of IPC (punishment of criminal conspiracy). According to the home department order issued by joint secretary Ramniwas Mehta under Rule 1392 of Rajasthan Civil Services (classification, control and Appeal) Rules, 1958, Midha has been suspended with immediate effect. Earlier, the state’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) had registered an FIR against Midha for allegedly demanding Rs 2 crore bribe along with ex-ADG (SOG and ATS) Anil Paliwal from a credit cooperative society official. According to the complainant, as per ACB officials, Midha had taken him to meet Paliwal and they demanded Rs 2 crore to take care of a case. He had also claimed that there were other officials involved, but he only recognized them by face and didn’t know their names. The case involved an investigation into a credit co-operative society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/home-dept-suspends-former-addl-sp-of-sog/articleshow/79499535.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Govind Devji and Shila Mata temples to open from today||Jaipur: The doors of the legendary Govind Devji temple in the Walled City and Shila Mata temple in Amber, which remained closed for the last 257 days due to Covid-19, will be opened from Tuesday.Due to night curfew in place, people will be able to visit Govind Devji temple from 7.45am to 12noon and from 4pm to 6.30pm in the evening and Shila Mata temple from 7-12 noon and 4pm to 6 pm in evening.Darshan of various jhaankis (tableaux) will also be opened for visitors in Govind Devji temple from 7.45am to 12noon. Access to common visitors will be prohibited in mangla and sleeping tableaux.Meanwhile, the Govind Devji temple management has completed all preparations for the coronation. The temple has been sanitised. Different queues have been barricaded for the entry of devotees who will enter the temple only through four lines.Govind Devji temple manager Manas Goswami said that ayurvedic sanitisation and thermal scanning have been arranged outside all the gates. With this, devotees will be appealed to come out after darshan in a short time. Devotees will be given entry only with masks.The ‘pats’ (doors) will be closed for 10 minutes for Gwal Bhog service in the evening as well. Devotees will not be able to do circumambulation and basil and sandalwood will not be distributed. These are some preventive steps taken to maintain hygiene and social distancing norms.In Shila Mata temple, only 10 devotees will be allowed to enter at a time while maintaining social distancing. Hand sanitisers have been installed and different entry/exit gates are fixed. Not more than two minutes will be given to a devotee for darshan.In both the temples, devotees will not be able to bring offering like flower garlands, fruits and sweets. The Laddu Prasad Bhandar will remain closed.With this, the only famous temple that is yet to open is Galta Ji Maharaj. Temple authorities said that they have a kund in the premises and are worried that it will be difficult to stop people from taking bath during pandemic. Hence, the management has currently decided to postpone its reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govind-devji-and-shila-mata-temples-to-open-from-today/articleshow/79499530.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, paramour arrested over husband’s murder||Kota: Baran city police on Monday arrested a 27-year-old woman and her 25-year-old paramour for allegedly killing her husband around eight days ago and concealing the body in a brick kiln on Mangrole road. On a report of foul smell emanating out of the brick kiln, city police on Sunday recovered the decomposed body hidden under heaps of unbaked bricks, investigating officer Prithviraj Meena said. The body was identified as Mahendra Meena, 30, a resident of Khedibedoliyan village, which is around around 2km from the brick kiln, he added. The brother of the deceased man had lodged a missing report on November 25. He stated that his brother Mahendra and his wife Kantibai had left for work on November 21 with a construction work contractor Rakesh Meghwal and had not returned home since then. He alleged in the complaint that Kantibai and Rakesh were hand in glove in his brother’s missing case, the investigating officer said. Police conducted autopsy on the spot on Sunday and handed over the body to family members for last rites, he added. Further investigation into the matter revealed that the deceased man’s wife Kantibai and contractor Rakesh were in a relationship for the last 5-7 years. On the day of crime on November 21, a scuffle erupted between Mahendra and Rakesh at the brick kiln where Rakesh allegedly choked Mahendra to death. When Kantibai and Rakesh found Mahendra dead, they immediately hid the body under the heaps of unbaked bricks and fled from the spot, he further said. Police on Monday afternoon arrested Rakesh and Kantibai and booked them under IPC Sections 302 and 201. The accused will be produced before the court on Tuesday, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-paramour-arrested-over-husbands-murder/articleshow/79499564.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Few attend ‘maha snan’ at Pushkar||Ajmer: Low turnout was witnessed at the ‘Maha Snan’ (Great Bath) on the occasion of Kartik Poornima (full moon in the month of Kartik) on Monday in Pushkar. Last year more than 3.5 lakh devotees had attended the ‘Maha Snan’. Very few devotees were seen during the aarti at Brahma Temple here. Though there was strict security at every nook and corner, no devotees were stopped from visiting the ghats as their number was few. The police officials also saw to it that everyone followed the Covid-19 norms of social distancing and wearing a mask. The ghats that till last year had been jam-packed during Kartik Poornima wore a deserted look this year. Priest Mahesh Parashar said that symbolic rituals were performed but low turnout will directly affect the economy the town. The livelihood of priests, hotel owners, restaurants, artisans and others depend on the Pushkar Fair. “When lockdown was announced in March, Pushkar had more than 10,000 foreign tourists. Now there are only a few tourists and most of them are from Israel,” said a guest house owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/few-attend-maha-snan-at-pushkar/articleshow/79499549.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||3 seats vacant in state assembly||JAIPUR: The death of three sitting MLAs in a span of two months has reduced the strength of lawmakers from 200 to 197. The death of three MLAs Kiran Maheshwari (Rajsamand), Kailesh Tridevi (Sahara) and Bhanwar Lal Meghwal (Sujangarh) has vacated thee assembly seats.Both Trivedi and Maheshwari died due to COVID 19 while Meghwal died after prolonged illness. The deaths have reduced the strength of Congress to 105 while BJP to 71 as per the Raj assembly website. The elections on these seats are expected to held withing six months to fill the vacant seats. The elections results in anycase not going to impact the government since they have four seats more than the majority mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-seats-vacant-in-state-assembly/articleshow/79499556.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Covid fear: Fitness freaks staying away from gyms||Nagpur: When chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced in October that he would allow gymnasiums to open from Dussehra, there was a wave of joy among owners and staffers. However, one month down the line, this joy has abated because not many people are going to gyms. Business is at the most 25% or 30% of pre-lockdown level. Some gyms are getting only 10% of pre-lockdown business. Consequently, they are unable to pay full salary to their staff. After months without salary, trainers and cleaners now have to make do with half or 60% of pre-lockdown wages. Gym owners say people with ailments like diabetes, high blood pressure, etc are staying away from gyms fearing Covid. “Only fit people are coming to gyms,” said an owner. Shiv Gorai of Barracks Gym said that only 10% of his members were coming. “The take-off is poor. People are conscious about their safety even though we are following the standard operating procedure (SOP),” he said. Surendra Jangde of Peoples Gym said that business was between 25% and 30% of pre-lockdown levels. “We have limited the number of people in one batch to 20. Only fit people are going to gyms. People with ailments, children and senior citizens are exercising at home. We are strictly following the SOP,” he said. Rahul Maniyar of SPL Fitness Hub said that people were coming to his gym but the numbers were nowhere near pre-lockdown. “Business is not bad. We are better off than restaurants and pubs. We have restricted the numbers because of the SOP,” he said. Low attendance is creating professional problems for trainers. Trainer Ankit Verma is getting only 60% of his pre-lockdown salary. “I have a family of four to look after. I had borrowed money from relatives during the lockdown when the gym was closed. Now they are demanding repayment. It is impossible to repay the loan due to salary cut. In addition to my job, I’m training people in their homes to increase my income but it is not enough,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-fear-fitness-freaks-staying-away-from-gyms/articleshow/79499579.cms||Ashish Roy
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||BJP workers mourn leader’s death||Udaipur: Residents of Udaipur woke up to the shocking news of Maheshwari’s death on Monday. People, especially BJP workers and supporters, found it difficult to believe that their beloved ‘Didi’ was no more. Despite prohibitory orders being in force, people thronged in large numbers to her residence in Ambamata area here to express their grief. The MLA’s funeral will be held on Tuesday morning, family sources said. Kiran was a member of the Durga Vahini wing of the VHP and later contested the councillor’s election which she won and was elected as the chairperson of the Udaipur Nagar Nigam during 1994-98. Maheshwari was very popular and had close connections with people. She had defeated Congress veteran Girija Vyas in 2004 general elections and was elected from Udaipur Lok Sabha seat. “She was a kind-hearted woman. Once when I fell critically ill, Kiran ji, who was the chairperson of municipal council, took me to Mumbai for treatment and stayed there for 3 days until i recovered,” said Vijay Prakash Viplavi, ex-councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-workers-mourn-leaders-death/articleshow/79499541.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Drizzle likely in parts of M’wada||Aurangabad: Many parts of Marathwada, including Aurangabad, are likely to witness cloudy weather for the next 48-hours with a possibility of light showers in few areas. As per the weather bulletin issued by Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Agricultural University (VNMAU), Beed, Latur, Nanded and Osmanabad districts are likely to witness rainfall activity. K K Dakhore, agricultural meteorologist with VNMAU, said that cyclonic systems developing over Bay of Bengal have left its imprint over the weather in Marathwada as well. “Parts of Marathwada are likely to witness flow of winds at a speed higher than normal. In keeping with the weather forecast, we have asked the farmers to take care of their crops and orchids,” he said. The partly cloudy conditions, being already observed, have caused rise in mercury with the minimum temperature being recorded at 18 degrees celsius — five degrees above the normal range. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, Aurangabad has been witnessing considerably above-normal minimum temperature since November 24, barring an exception of November 26, causing disappearance of the winter chill. “The winter chill is likely to mark its return soon. As per official forecasts, the winter is likely to be more harsh this year despite being for reduced duration,” Dakhore said. Among other Marathwada cities, Nanded and Parbhani reported minimum temperature of 19 degrees celsius and 18.4 degrees celsius, respectively. At the state level, Gondia was the coldest region in Maharashtra on Monday having registered a minimum temperature of 13.8 degrees celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/drizzle-likely-in-parts-of-mwada/articleshow/79497202.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Colleges: Online exams ahead, not wise to ask students to travel now||Chennai: Universities, colleges across the state are busy preparing campuses and deciding on SOPs to follow when final year students of undergraduate courses return on December 7 after months of lockdown. This comes even as several colleges have scheduled online semester exams from December second week for UG final year students. In the first step towards switching back to in-person classes, UG final year students will return to campuses on December 7. Medical colleges and paramedical colleges are allowed to open up to all UG and PG students from next Monday. The state government has also waved a green flag to reopening campus hostels. “All universities/colleges including arts and science, engineering, agriculture, fisheries, and veterinary sciences are allowed to conduct classes for the undergraduate final year students by following standard operating procedures,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in an announcement on Monday. Classes for the first-year students to start from February 1, 2021. State universities have conducted meetings with hostel wardens, campus directors and deans on making arrangements. “We have instructed hostel wardens to keep hygiene in mind, making arrangements for hand sanitizers and to facilitate social distancing. Body temperature of hostel students will be checked frequently and any student with Covid-19 symptoms will be isolated and given proper medical care,” said S Gowri, vice-chancellor of Madras University. Likewise, Anna University also held meetings with officials on making arrangements for accommodating research scholars and PG students. “Many colleges have declared study holidays. We can reopen for final year students only from the next semester as many dont want to risk returning to campuses during exams,” principal of a city college said. Engineering colleges also plan to conduct online proctoring tests for third, fifth, and seventh-semester students in December. “The state government gave its permission to conduct online semester exams for UG and PG students. In a circular on Monday, Anna University asked autonomous colleges to conduct semester exams online. So, final year UG students will come to colleges only from next semester and it is also not advisable to ask them to travel during study holidays,” principal of an engineering college in the city said. Engineering colleges that have many boarding students want the 14-day mandatory quarantine rule for hostel students relaxed. “It will be difficult for colleges to quarantine students in hostel rooms. We can instead make Covid tests mandatory and let them inside the hostels,” another principal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/colleges-online-exams-ahead-not-wise-to-ask-students-to-travel-now/articleshow/79499580.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||Kin of man booked under Uttar Pradesh’s new ‘love jihad’ law flee village||BAREILLY: Family members and relatives of the man booked under the newly promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 have left their houses and village “fearing police harassment” in Bareilly. The accused, Uwaish Ahmad, first to have been booked under the law, is still absconding and police have formed teams to arrest him. A team raided the house of a relative in Rampur but couldn’t find him there.  Sources claimed some of Ahmad’s relatives have been detained in a bid to “force the accused to surrender”. Bareilly ASP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “We are questioning people known to the accused to find his hideout.” Some members of the right-wing groups now want police to slap the new ordinance against accused in old cases as well, but police have so far turned down their demand. Voicing his concern over the newly enacted law, Salman Hasan Khan Qadri, vicepresident of Dargah-e-Ala Hazrat, said, “This may disturb the communal harmony. There are high chances that the law would be abused like it happened in the Deorania case. The statement of the woman is not yet recorded and she had never made any complaint against the man.  Police should have registered the case after initial investigation only. Now, the family members and relatives of the man have left their house fearing police action. ” DIG Rajesh Kumar Pandey said, “There is no way that the new law could be slapped in an old case. Even in the Deorania case, we will record the statement of the woman and her father soon and take the necessary action. The accused is absconding and we are trying to arrest him. His family members are also missing but police had never put pressure or harassed them as none of them is an accused in this case. The security in the village has been increased to ensure peace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kin-of-man-booked-under-uttar-pradeshs-new-love-jihad-law-flee-village/articleshow/79501529.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Kota police recover five stolen bikes, one arrested||Kota: A special team of Kota city police on Monday arrested a person and recovered at least five motorbikes and 29 bicycles from his possession. The accused will be produced before court on Tuesday. Amid the rising number of reports of motorbike and bicycle lifting in Nayapura, Chambal Garden, Nagji Ka Bag areas of the city, a special team was formed to investigate the matter and accordingly cops in mufti were deployed at various locations of the city to keep an eye on suspects, Kota city SP Vikas Pathak said. Vasudev Bhramin, 25, a native of Borekhedi village of Jhalawar district, currently a resident of Gumanpura area of Kota city, was spotted moving around suspiciously near Talab Ki Paal, he said. When inquired, he failed to respond satisfactorily and was brought to Nayapura police station where during interrogation he admitted to have committed burglary of motorbikes and bicycles from various locations of the city. Police recovered at least five motorbikes and 29 bicycles worth around Rs 6 lakh, the SP said. The accused is a habitual criminal who has undergone terms under four cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-police-recover-five-stolen-bikes-one-arrested/articleshow/79499585.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer hotels told to obey Covid norms strictly||Jaisalmer: The district administration has directed hoteliers and resort owners to remain alert to prevent Covid during the tourism season. On the directions of collector Ashish Modi, vigilance and strictness is being maintained at every level during the tourism season. The administration has said action would be taken under the epidemic Act for failure to abide by Covid norms. UIT secretary and Covid district in-charge Anurag Bhagava said recently a meeting of hotel and resort owners was held wherein they were told to ensure that tourists must wear masks, put ‘no mask, no entry’ board at the entry of resort/hotel, to keep oximeters, thermal scanner, hand sanitizers, gloves and masks at the receptions. Tourists should be checked with oximeters and thermal scanners besides maintaining details and persons having Covid-like symptoms. Tourists have also been told to maintain social distance during cultural programmes held in resort/hotel and keep changing the staff serving food to tourists on rotation. The UIT has sanitized Jaisalmer Fort, Patwon Ki Haveli, parking of Gadisar lake while Jaisalmer Vikas Samiti has been given the responsibility of distributing masks at these places. Bhagava said action would be taken against those who violate these directions under provisions of the epidemic Act. The district administration is running multi-dimensional activities through vigilance campaign in the entire city. Municipal council commissioner Fateh Singh Meena said it ran awareness campaign at Ward Nos. 19, 43, 44 and 45 and made people and tourists aware about Covid and asked them to follow the norms to prevent the disease from spreading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaisalmer-hotels-told-to-obey-covid-norms-strictly/articleshow/79499583.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Disaster department team visits Gaumukh, says ‘no sign of landslides, river blockage’||DEHRADUN: A team of the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority (USDMA), which reached the snout of Gangotri glacier on November 28, claimed that there were no active landslides, signs of river blockage or ponding around Gaumukh area and that Bhagirathi river’s flow was uninterrupted. After receiving flak from the high court earlier this month for not sending periodic reports of the Gaumukh glacier, USDMA had formed a team to visit the area, which communicated its initial findings through a satellite phone. “The team sent by USDMA was formed on November 23 and mandated to carry out a field survey of the area around Gaumukh in Bhagirathi river valley,” said Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC). According to Rautela, Sushil Khanduri, geologist of USDMA, a member of the team, communicated four main findings to the state emergency operation centre. He communicated that the area is under a veneer of fresh snow, no active landslides have been observed in the area, there are no signs of blockage and ponding in the area and the flow of Bhagirathi is unobstructed. To recall, the Uttarakhand high court had taken serious note of the Gaumukh issue after scientists of the Doon-based Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), pointed out three years ago that a lake — about 1.5-2m deep and 18-25m long — had formed at Gaumukh. A PIL was also subsequently filed in the matter by Delhi resident Ajay Gautam. Incidentally, earlier this month, PS Negi, senior scientist with the Wadia Institute who was involved in the findings three years ago, had said after a fresh visit to the region that the lake had disappeared, possibly due to sedimentation. However, he added that an accumulation of debris at the spot continues to be a serious threat. “The pile could tumble down on Uttarkashi and cause serious damage in the town if there is a cloudburst, like the one that led to the Kedarnath deluge in 2013,” the scientist had warned. Rautela meanwhile said that Gaumukh area of Bhagirathi river valley has been under regular observation since December 2017 and that no evidence had been found of a blockage in Bhagirathi river or of the artificial lake in the last three years. “A detailed report, along with photographs of the area, will be submitted once the team returns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/disaster-dept-team-visits-gaumukh-says-no-sign-of-landslides-river-blockage/articleshow/79497207.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Himmat-led farmers’ body to support protest in Delhi||Jaipur: The Himmat Singh-led Pradesh Kisaan Sangharsh Samiti will be holding a meeting on Wednesday to decide their course of action in support of Punjab and Haryana farmers in New Delhi.A group of farmers from Rajasthan, led by Singh, will also reach Delhi to support the cause of farmers who are demanding the revocation of three farm laws brought by the Centre. The farmers in Rajasthan may also block the national highway in protest against the Centre’s bills.“We will have a meeting in Dausa on Wednesday. The farmers’ protest in Delhi is in for a long haul. We will decide our course of action in support of the farmers who have reached Delhi,” Singh told TOI.“We will decide during the meeting about the framework of our agitation in Rajasthan. For this, we also need to speak with the coordination committee on farmers’ demands in Delhi. We may either block the national highway or resort to other forms of agitation,” he added.The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment). According to the farmers, these bills will bring an end to the minimum support price system and will leave them at the mercy of private corporates.Meanwhile, Rajasthan became the third state in the country after Punjab and Chhattisgarh to counter Centre’s farm laws when its assembly passed four amendment bills, which among other things, make minimum support price (MSP) mandatory for contract farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/himmat-led-farmers-body-to-support-protest-in-delhi/articleshow/79499572.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Supply lines cut, capital crisis brews||NEW DELHI: With the Delhi-Haryana borders at Singhu and Tikri and with Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur almost closed, the farmers’ protest is turning the capital into an island each passing day. Supply of essential items like fruits, vegetables, milk and fuel are getting affected and the situation is likely to worsen if the stalemate continues. Azadpur Mandi, Delhi’s largest wholesale market for fruits and vegetables, has seen a nearly 60% dip in arrivals since Friday. “Usually, around 12,500 tonnes of fruits and vegetables arrive at Azadpur every day, but the number of trucks arriving at the mandi has gone down from more than 2,500 a day to 1,000 now,” said Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman, Azadpur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). Khan said that while the capital is not facing a shortage at the moment, with other border crossings also affected by the protest, the prices of fruits and kitchen staples like potato are showing signs of rising. Khan said that not only had arrivals been affected, but trucks from the mandi had also been unable to leave Delhi. Availability of milk is not yet a problem. “Milk supplies reach Delhi from different states, and although supplies from Haryana has been affected due to the problem at two, three border points, the rest of the border crossings are still open,” said an official of a large milk supplier. “If supply is restricted at some plants, there are other supporting plants.” Delhi-NCR Petrol Dealers’ Association president Ajay Bansal said that fuel supplies coming from depots in Rohtak were getting delayed due to the protests and vehicles were taking a longer route. “There is a small problem in getting fuel because the carriers are taking longer to reach the filling stations. However, we are managing and the 390 petrol pumps in the city are fully stocked,” Bansal said. Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general, All India Motor Transport Congress, however, claimed that movement of goods through trucks to and from Delhi had been badly hampered and the supply chain would be majorly disrupted if the protests continued. “It appears the farmers have decided on a long battle until the government talks and pacifies them,” he said. The restricted movement of traffic due to the border problems has impacted trade and business in Delhi, which is north India’s biggest distribution point for commercial goods. “Business in Delhi has seen a loss of around Rs 200 crore in the last five days,” estimated Brijesh Goyal, chairman, Chamber of Trade and Industry. “The transport business has taken the biggest hit. There has been no loading or unloading of goods in these five days and raw materials from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir have come to a halt.” Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk’s Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said, “The footfall in markets and wholesale markets, which cater to a large number of bulk buyers from the neighbouring states, have dipped and businesses are closing by 5pm. Retail sales have also declined in the last four days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/supply-lines-cut-a-capital-crisis-brews/articleshow/79500640.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 1, 2020||Aurangabad||CPI supports MVA in Aurangabad & Nagpur||Aurangabad: A day before polling for Aurangabad graduates’ constituency, the Communist Party of India (CPI) and other Left-wing parties on Monday announced support to the Mahavikas Aaghadi (MVA) candidate. The move, which is in the line of their stand during the recent Bihar assembly election, has raised many eyebrows considering the presence of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidates. Nagorao Panchal is VBA candidate, while AAP has fielded Rohit Borikar. Three Left-wing parties were part of the grand alliance comprising the Rashtriya Janata Dal and Congress that fought the recent Bihar assembly election. Senior CPI leader Ram Baheti said his party has supported MVA with the sole aim of minimising the influence of BJP. “We have supported MVA candidate not only in Marathwada but also for the MLC poll at Nagpur. We don’t aim to develop any proximity with MVA but want to keep BJP out of power,” he said. Baheti added that the MVA leaders had approached the leaders from the left parties seeking their support and his party had not offered the support on its own. Commenting on CPI stand, VBA state spokesperson Amit Bhuigal said, “CPI and other Left-wing parties have given up the ideologies for which they were known for in the past. In the pretext of keeping BJP out of power, Left parties are developing camaraderie with MVA.” The MVA camp, which has fielded Satish Chavan of NCP, has got a fillip in its campaign with the support of Leftw-wing parties. Chavan is in a straight fight with Shirsh Boralkar of BJP. A total of 35 candidates are in a fray for Aurangabad graduates’ constituency, including Kunal Kharat of AIMIM and Abdul Rauf of Samajwadi Party along with many independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cpi-supports-mva-in-aurangabad-nagpur/articleshow/79497212.cms||Prasad Joshi
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Covid pandemic cuts access to drugs, hits HIV treatment in Central India||Nagpur: Many HIV/AIDS patients in Central India have been banking on Nagpur for treatment and regular supply of anti-retroviral therapy, which is the key in fight against the disease. On the eve of World AIDS Day, doctors in the city feel uninterrupted supply of ART must be the focus of governments and organizations working for prevention of HIV/AIDS. They said many patients went without medicine during the lockdown, leading to relapse of the disease. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said, “Though telemedicine did help in deciding course of treatment, there is no alternative to medicines. During lockdown, the access to medicines was hampered severely and patients couldn’t take their medication regularly. This year’s theme of the World Health Organization (WHO) is ‘To provide continuous HIV services to all the needy population during this Covid pandemic.” Dr Shinde added, due to fear of Covid, patients are still not coming for follow-up which causes interruption in the treatment. Dr Ashwini Tayde, who too is an infectious disease specialist, said the new normal and the novel Coronavirus pose newer challenges in HIV treatment. “Even as the word ‘virus’ has evoked fear globally over the last one year, people living with HIV (PLHIV) have more reasons to worry than others. For years now, health care professionals have worked hard to convey to the people living with HIV (PLHIV) that a positive diagnosis is not equivalent to a death sentence. This year, the pandemic undid a lot of this positive work,” she said. Dr Tayde said by the end of 2019, India had achieved a major milestone in the fight against HIV/AIDS. According to the WHO, the transmission of new HIV infections fell by 39%, while the number of deaths caused by the virus fell by 51% between the years 2000 and 2019. “India decided to give itself a new goal in fighting the HIV infection called 90-90-90. The aim was to ensure 90% PLHIVs know their status, 90% of the diagnosed patients can have access to ART and that 90% of them should have suppressed viral loads by the end of 2020,” she said. “This fight took a beating as health care machinery got engaged in responding to Covid-19 situation, said Dr Tayde. Dr Ishwar Gilada, president of AIDS Society of India, said, “We must give equal emphasis to HIV prevention, and not just treatment. With Covid-19, community networks and HIV experts of ASI and National AIDS Control Organization (NACO) did step up to ensure uninterrupted supply of ART, but several challenges remained.” He added, “HIV-related services, such as those for co-infections and co-morbidities, remained beyond the reach for many. HIV key populations, including sex workers, LGBTIQ+ communities for instance, were facing several challenges to tide through the lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-pandemic-cuts-access-to-drugs-hits-hiv-treatment-in-central-india/articleshow/79499617.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Court asks police to file FIR, investigate 2-yr-old plaint||Chennai: The metropolitan magistrate of Egmore has directed the city police to probe allegations against a city travel agency, accused of cheating several people after collecting money to get them jobs abroad. The magistrate was hearing a petition filed by Rahmunisa, who runs another travel agency in the city. According to her petition, in May 2018, a person from Kanyakumari approached her agency and asked for five people from the region to be sent to South Korea for work. Rahmunisa subsequently approached another travel agency on Anna Salai to facilitate the process. The five people transferred money to Rahmunisa, who in turn paid the other agency Rs 11 lakh first and Rs 1.35 lakh later. In the same month, the five were sent to Thailand by the other agency and asked to stay in Bangkok for a month on their own expense. They were not given jobs either and the travel agency intentionally cheated them, the petitioner said. Rahmunisa added that when she contacted the proprietor of the other agency, he told her that he was cheated by the agent in Bangkok. Rahmunisa said she mortgaged her house and spent Rs 5 lakh to bring the five back home after 1.5 months. Since the travel agency owner didn’t give a refund and closed his office in Anna Salai too, Rahmunisa lodged a complaint against him and his wife with the Arumbakkam police in November 2018. The petitioner approached the police in October this year and learned FIR hadn’t been filed till date and moved court. The magistrate, after perusing the submissions, noted that the events disclose cognizable offences and directed the police to file FIR and investigate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-asks-police-to-file-fir-investigate-2-yr-old-plaint/articleshow/79499625.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||JCTSL union terms office duty for drivers as unfair||Jaipur: Around 90 workers of Jaipur City Transport Services Limited (JCTSL), who were hired for the post of drivers and conductors, have been given duties in offices for years. JCTSL employee’s union has termed this as unfair towards others who have to work double time and still won’t get same benefit.JCTSL buses, considered to be city’s lifeline, have been dealing with this issue for a long time.Secretary JCTSL Employee Union Babulal Nangli said that there are many drivers and conductors who never drove a vehicle. “Some drivers and conductors joined office and never worked in field even for a day. Drivers and conductors are the one who generates revenue for the department, but have to work in odd hours,” said Nangli.The workers who are employed in office work gets five days a week working and timely salaries. Whereas, JCTSL drivers and conductors usually gets two – three months delayed salaries.Employees union are demanding to make office appointment on the basis of roster and make it compulsory to have every employee work in field for at least 100 days a year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jctsl-union-terms-office-duty-for-drivers-as-unfair/articleshow/79499610.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||New Uttarakhand DGP takes charge, vows to introduce ‘victim-oriented policing’ &‘eliminate land mafia’||DEHRADUN: The new director general of police (DGP) of Uttarakhand, Ashok Kumar, on Monday assumed office and vowed to bring ‘victim-oriented’ policing in the state while ‘crushing land mafias’. The official said that no one will be allowed to take law into their hands. “By victim-oriented policing, I mean that police personnel should take decisions keeping the victims in mind. We are going to make policing more accessible, pro-poor, and pro-women,” said Kumar, who is a 1989-batch IPS officer. Kumar told TOI that he has already constituted six departmental committees to introduce SMART (S-Sensitive & Strict, M-Modern with Mobility, A-Alert & Accountable, R- Reliable & Responsive, T-Trained & Techno-Savvy) policing in Uttarakhand and to increase the capabilities of the police personnel to take on new challenges. “We are aiming to introduce convenient policing for the people. For instance, we are planning to make postmortem reports online for the convenience of the people,” he added. Talking about immediate challenges before the police department, Ashok Kumar said that “zero tolerance approach will be adopted against land mafia”, adding that, “We are going to invoke Gangster Act against people indulging in land grabbing.” In his message to the police department, the new DGP asked the police officers to refrain from any type of misbehaviour with the public and added that any such act against the public will not be tolerated. In response to a question regarding the prevailing corruption in the police department, Ashok Kumar said, “Any police personnel indulging in corrupt practices is not fit to don the uniform and if we receive any such complaint, strict action would be taken against such errant cops.” Besides talking about bringing an attitudinal change among the police personnel for ensuring effective public delivery, Ashok Kumar said that the department is going to take several welfare steps for increasing ‘happiness quotient’ in the lives of police personnel who work against all odds. Meanwhile, outgoing DGP Anil Raturi was given a traditional farewell by senior police officers following a parade at Dehradun police lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-ukhand-dgp-takes-charge-vows-to-introduce-victim-oriented-policing-and-eliminate-land-mafia/articleshow/79497218.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur airport sees growth in passenger footfall||JAIPUR: The city airport has seen a significant growth in passenger load in November in addition to getting more flights. Till October, the total number of daily passengers including arrivals and departures was 4,000, which has now gone up to 8,500. Attributing the rise in passenger footfall, airport authorities and airlines operators said proper implementation of Covid rules like wearing of masks, face shields and frequent use of sanitisers have led to people confidence in choosing flying as a safe option. From 22 flights in October, it has now gone up to 32. “More flights have been added in the daily schedule. Except for a few cancellations, most flights operate on schedule,” said airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara. On Saturday, 8,950 passengers travelled from Jaipur airport, much more than the daily average of 8,500. Sharing the recent figures, a senior officer of Jaipur airport said, “Passenger footfall on November 27 was 8,106. On November 22 it was 8,657. Now we are getting nearly 8,500 passengers per day, which is a good sign.” When domestic flight operations were resumed, the city airport received merely 500 to 1,000 passengers in July which increased to 2000 passengers in August. “In September 3,000-4,000 passengers travelled from here while in October the number was between 3,500 and 4,500,” said an officer. Authorities stated they regularly sanitise every area of the airport. “We also provide masks and sanitisers to the passengers on their arrival and departure,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/growth-in-passenger-footfall-at-jaipur-airport-now-8500-passengers-using-jaipur-airport-per-day/articleshow/79499615.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||RLP threatens to break ties with NDA over farm laws||JAIPUR: The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), an ally of the Centre’s NDA government, has stepped up pressure on home minister Amit Shah to hear out the protesting farmers surrounding Delhi and withdraw the Union farm laws immediately. In a first direct threat, Lok Sabha MP from Nagaur Hanuman Beniwal on Monday said if the controversial farm laws were not repealed, the RLP would have to reconsider its support to the NDA government. Beniwal spoke in favour of the protesting farmers last week, too, but he had not threatened to withdraw support to NDA until now. The RLP has one MP and three MLAs in Rajasthan. “If a prompt decision is not taken in the matter, the RLP, which is an ally of the NDA, will have to reconsider whether to continue with the coalition, because farmers and soldiers are RLP’s strength,” Beniwal, who is also the RLP convener, wrote to Union home minister Shah on Monday. In the morning, Olympic boxer Vijender Singh tweeted urging Beniwal to support the protesting farmers. By afternoon, the Nagaur MP sent out a series of tweets making his stand clear in the matter. “Drawing your attention to the farmers’ protest against the three agriculture-related bills introduced by the Centre recently, it is requested that you take immediate action to withdraw the bills because it does not befit the government that the country’s ‘annadata’ (food giver) amid severe cold and corona,” Beniwal wrote to Shah and posted the letter on twitter. The MP further wrote that the Centre should give space to farmers for talks as per their intent and implement all recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. The RLP distancing itself with NDA may not impact the central government, but could open opportunities for the Congress in Rajasthan where local BJP leaders are publicly talking of midterm assembly elections within six months citing the rift between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. Prior to RLP-BJP alliance ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Gehlot offered ministerial post to Beniwal when the latter was an MLA. The assembly seat vacated by Beniwal upon his election as Nagaur MP is now represented by his younger brother Narayan Beniwal as the RLP MLA. The BJP favoured the RLP convenor over former chief minister Vasundhara Raje in leaving the Lok Sabha seat for him in 2019. Beniwal had left BJP following his differences with Raje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rlp-threatens-to-break-ties-with-nda-over-farm-laws/articleshow/79499602.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: NCP workers get fake calls in Surpriya Sule’s name, cops file case||AURANGABAD: Several workers of the NCP and people from the region on Monday received a pre-recorded call in a voice imitating NCP MP Surpriya Sule, just a day ahead of the election to the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency. Aurangabad city police’s cyber crime branch registered a case of cheating in this connection against unidentified people. The offence has been registered based on the complaint lodged by Nitin Bagwe, NCP’s chief publicist for the constituency for which the polling is scheduled on Tuesday. Cybercrime police inspector Geeta Bagwade said, “The unidentified caller has been booked under sections 419 (cheating through personation), 171-F (Punishment for undue influence or personation at an election) of the Indian Penal code and relevant sections of Information and Technology Act. “We suspect that it has been done using some application,” said Bagwade. The complaint has specified the name and phone numbers of the party workers, who received the calls from a specific phone number. In the call, the impersonator can be heard appealing to the electors to vote for BJP candidates contesting the elections. The caller also claims that these candidates have her backing. NCP office-bearers checked the authenticity of the phone number, only to find that it does not belong to Sule. Taking serious cognizance of the automated call, NCP office-bearers reached out to the police and lodged the complaint. Cyber crime police maintained that they have already initiated the probe. Later, NCP released a statement blaming other candidates for playing dirty tricks to win the elections. Watch NCP workers get fake calls in Supriya Sule’s name, cops file case in Aurangabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ncp-workers-get-fake-calls-in-sules-name-cops-file-case/articleshow/79497193.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Original degree is valid voter ID||Aurangabad: Voters can carry any of the 10 valid identity cards, including the original degree certificate issued by a university, to cast their vote for the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency election on Tuesday. Along with the voter photo ID issued by the election commission of India, the Aadhaar card, driving licence, PAN card, passport, identity card issued by government or registered private establishment, authorized identification endorsement by MLA/MLC/MP, service identity card issued to teaching or non-teaching staff working in the limits of the constituency and government disability certificate will be considered valid identity documents, an official release stated. All registered voters, who are employed in the public sector, can avail a casual leave to go for voting. The private sector firms have been asked to offer relaxation in duty hours to enable voting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/original-degree-is-valid-voter-id/articleshow/79497226.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bareilly||Kin of man booked under UP’s new ‘love jihad’ law flee village||BAREILLY: Family members and relatives of the man booked under the newly promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance 2020 have left their houses and village “fearing police harassment” in Bareilly. The accused, Uwaish Ahmad, first to have been booked under the law, is still absconding and police have formed teams to arrest him. A team raided the house of a relative in Rampur but couldn’t find him there. Sources claimed some of Ahmad’s relatives have been detained in a bid to “force the accused to surrender”. Bareilly ASP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “We are questioning people known to the accused to find his hideout.” Some members of the right-wing groups now want police to slap the new ordinance against accused in old cases as well, but police have so far turned down their demand. Voicing his concern over the newly enacted laws, Salman Hasan Khan Qadri, vice-president of Dargah-e-Ala Hazrat, said, “People will be forced to live under the shadow of fear. This may disturb the communal harmony. There are high chances that the law would be abused like it happened in the Deorania case. The statement of the woman is not yet recorded and she had never made any complaint against the man. Police should have registered the case after initial investigation only. Now, the family members and relatives of the man have left their house fearing police action. Even in other cases, people are politicizing the matter and projecting it as love jihad. We are trying to contact the affected families to lend support. If needed, we will speak with senior officials and take the support of the judicial system to ensure justice for the affected people.” Deputy inspector general Rajesh Kumar Pandey said, “There is no way that the new law could be slapped in an old case. Even in the Deorania case, we will record the statement of the woman and her father soon and take the necessary action. The accused is absconding and we are trying to arrest him. His family members are also missing but police had never put pressure or harassed them as none of them is an accused in this case. The security in the village has been increased to ensure peace.” When asked if the woman was threatened by the accused, a senior cop, on the condition of anonymity, told TOI, “It is a part of the investigation. The woman had expressed to marry the accused but later changed her statement during a village panchayat. She had attempted to elope with the accused as well. There is a chance that the new law could be misused unless the court takes cognizance.” In another alleged case of matrimonial dispute reported from Izzatnagar area of Bareilly, efforts were made to project it as a case of ‘love jihad’ but police refused to include the new law in the FIR as the complaint was lodged a day before the law was promulgated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ups-1st-new-love-jihad-law-case-accuseds-family-kin-go-missing-fearing-police-action/articleshow/79496176.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Ex-sarpanch’s daughters light his funeral pyre||JAISALMER: Going against orthodox norms, the seven daughters of a social worker Hem Singh Mahabar, who died in Jodhpur on Sunday, gave shoulder to his body and lit the pyre at Mahabar village in Jaisalmer. The daughters lit the pyre as per the Hindu rituals. Hem Singh did not have any son. Mahabar village former sarpanch and Brahmdham Asotara trustee Hem Singh Rajpurohit died in Jodhpur on Sunday. His funeral was carried out at his native village, where his seven daughters carried out all the rituals. The seven daughters — Mangu Kanwar, Chagan Kanwar, Teejo Kanwar, Saari Kanwar, Ghapu Kanwar and Ghai Kanwar — lit the funeral pyre of their 83-year-old father following all the rituals. Hem Singh has 14 grandsons and 12 granddaughters. He was infected with coronavirus a few days ago and later tested negative too, but due to infection in the lungs, he passed away. Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje expressed her condolences to Hem Singh’s son-in-law Rajguru Beesu over phone. Barmer MLA Mewaram Jain called Hem Singh’s death an irreparable loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/ex-sarpanchs-daughters-light-his-funeral-pyre/articleshow/79499618.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Mention criminal antecedents while hearing bail plea: HC||Jodhpur: The Rajasthan high court has directed all the trial courts to mention complete details of the criminal antecedents of the accused, if any, while allowing or disallowing any regular/anticipatory bail application. Justice P S Bhati gave these directions while hearing a bail application that the refrainment of trial courts from being specific with regard to antecedents often caused delay in disposal of bail applications. “If the person is not having antecedents and his antecedents are called, receiving of such antecedents’ reports takes quite some time,” stated Justice Bhati in the impugned order. While hearing the impugned matter, the petitioner’s counsel had submitted that there were no criminal antecedents of the petitioner while the respondent was not in a position to refute this submission by the petitioner, thereby leading the court to grant the bail. He further stated that though the antecedents alone were not a ground of rejecting or accepting a bail, but it was must that the high court should have the antecedent report to check the applicability of Section 437 (1) of CrPC as well as to weigh the case of the accused person with the overall perspective of the allegations levelled. The order said, “If there are antecedents of the accused, then the complete details of the antecedents i.e. FIR number(s) & case number(s), section(s), date(s), status and date of arrest and release on any previous occasion, if any, in the chart form shall be prepared and incorporated in the trial courts’ order, while granting or dismissing the bail application.” With this order, Justice Bhati directed the registry of the court to convey the same to all the district & sessions judges of the state directing immediate implementation of this order amongst all the judicial officers and all courts in their respective jurisdiction, which are hearing bail applications. He also directed all the public prosecutors of the state to call for the antecedent report well in advance in every case of bail, so as to enable the courts to have definite and correct information regarding previous criminal antecedents of the accused. The court has directed the registry to ensure compliance of this order, in its letter and spirit, and submit before the court on January 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mention-criminal-antecedents-while-hearing-bail-plea-hc/articleshow/79499614.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Nashik||Stage set for casting votes in Dhule & Nandurbar||Nashik: Election officials in Dhule and Nandurbar districts have dispatched polling parties to the respective polling stations across Dhule and Nandurbar for the member of legislative council (MLC) election that is to be held on Tuesday. The election parties, comprising five personnel per polling booth, were dispatched on Monday morning with all the necessary equipment, including ballot paper, for conducting the preferential form of elections. “The polling parties are also equipped with a team of medical officer and an assistant that will first screen the voters as per the Covid-19 health advisory and only those who are found to be normal will be allowed to cast their votes,” deputy district election officer (Dhule district) Pramod Bhamre said. “Sanjay Yadav, collector of Dhule, is the returning officer for the election. Voters whose body temperature is likely to be higher than the normal will have to wait till the end of the day as they will be allowed to cast their vote between 4pm and 5pm. The election will begin at 8am,” Bhamre said. In this form of election, the voters have to mark preference in numbers against the candidate in Devnagri, English or Roman script only and also use the writing equipment provided by the election officials. The election to the constituency was necessitated after sitting MLC Amrishbhai Patel, who was a Congress leader, resigned and joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on October 1, 2019. The by-poll is being conducted for the remaining term of the seat — till 2022. According to the election official, there are 10 polling booths across Dhule and Nandurbar districts. “The chamber of the tehsildar of 10 talukas in both districts will be the polling station. There are six talukas in Nandurbar and four in Dhule,” he said. This election is a straight fight between Patel from BJP and Abhijit Patil from Congress. Four-time legislator from Shirpur from the Congress camp (1990 to 2009), Patel has never lost the election and was also state government cabinet minister for school education sports and youth affairs. He was declared unopposed elected member of MLC in 2009 and in 2015 Patel got the better of the BJP candidate Dr Shashikant Vani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/stage-set-for-casting-votes-in-dhule-nandurbar/articleshow/79497246.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Netas at constant risk of contracting Covid-19||JAIPUR: Politicians are always at the risk of contracting Covid as they are constantly surrounded by people and party workers. During municipal polls, BJP leader Kiran Maheshwari had contracted virus leading to her death. Health minister Raghu Sharma, who was campaigning at his Kekri constituency in Ajmer for municipal polls, got infected with the virus recently. He is currently under home isolation. A senior health department official said, “We are advising people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and follow hand hygiene. Crowded places are those areas where Covid virus spreads rapidly. We are advising people to avoid visiting crowded places without any reason.” In the past few days, state has witnessed sudden spurt in cases. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on November 28 had appealed people to remain alert. “Holding a meeting to review the #COVID19 situation across the state. We are focussing to ensure people remain alert, aware of the risks & transmission can be brought down completely. Discussed steps to keep positivity rate at lowest, mortality rate at minimum & to save all lives,” he had tweeted. Maheshwari and Sharma are not the only politicians who have tested positive. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who had gone for election campaigning in Madhya Pradesh, had also trested positive. Among the list of politicians who tested pisitve are BJP state general secretary Madan Dilawar, BJP leader Narpat Singh Rajvi, Dudu MLA Babulal Nagar, former minister in Vasundhara Raje government Rajpal Singh Shekhawat, MLA from Mandal in Bhilwara Ramlal Jat, Congress MLA from Adarsh Nagar of Jaipur Rafeek Khan, Churu BJP MLA Rajendra Rathore, Sanganer BJP MLA Ashok Lahoti and BJP MLA from Kapasan in Chittorgarh Arjun Lal Jeengar. Tonk-Sawai Madhopur BJP MP Sukhbir Singh Jaunapuria, MP from Jodhpur Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, MP from Bikaner Arjunram Meghwal and MP from Barmer Kailash Choudhary are also in the list of politicians from the state who had contracted the virus and recovered. Rajya Sabha members Dr Kirori Lal Meena and Rajendra Gehlot are also in the list. Nagaur’s MP Hanuman Beniwal also defeated Covid in July. MLA from Civil Lines from Jaipur and cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and Congress MLA from Sapotra in Karauli Ramesh Meena. BJP MLAs from Siwana of Barmer Hameer Singh Bhayal and Chittorgarh Chandrabhan Singh Aakya too have defeated Covid. State politicians who died after getting infected with the virus were 61-year-old Congress leader and former minister Lalit Bhati, B D Agarwal, a prominent businessman of Sriganganagar who launched his own political party, and Congress MLA from Bhilwara Kailash Trivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/netas-at-constant-risk-of-getting-infected/articleshow/79499621.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Local bodies get last warning to submit concessional rate land allotment records||Jaipur: The directorate of local bodies (DLB) has shot a final reminder letter to the local bodies to send the record of land allotments made at concessional rates for various purposes, within three days.The urban development and housing (UDH) department on the directions of minister Shanti Dhariwal is compiling details of all such allotments, to ensure that the land allotted at concessional rate is not being misused for other purposes.The initiative, however, is not being taken seriously by the officials of civic bodies.An official at UDH said, “While many development authorities and urban improvement trusts (UIT) have provided the records, the municipal corporations and municipalities are still compiling data. A strict warning has been issued to file the record within three days, as the minister is keen on calling a meeting.”Once the data is collected, the state government will examine and verify the usage of the land given at concessional rates. The department in the past received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place which is against norms. The state plans to take action against such institutes after examining the details.Officials claimed that many private hospitals which are beneficiaries of concessional land have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patient’s department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of the hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official said.Similarly, some educational institutes are not adhering to the norms. A source said, “The department will forward the land details to the departments concerned to crack a whip, if an allottee is misusing the land. A joint operation will be carried out soon after a survey.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/local-bodies-get-last-warning-to-submit-concessional-rate-land-allotment-records/articleshow/79499620.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Army’s cyclothon to celebrate 1971 war win reaches Munabao||Jaisalmer: Konark Corps of Indian Army has organised a 10-day long cyclothon to cover a distance of 1,971 km in border areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan to commemorate the victory of 1971. The cyclists of Golden Katar Warriors reached Gadra Road and Munabao on Monday, these are also the places where the attacks took place. The team is interacting with ex-servicemen, felicitating Veer Naaris, motivating youth to join Army and spreading awareness for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The cyclothon that commenced on November 26 from Border Pillar 1175 in Kutch will culminate on December 5 at Longewala. Bhairo Singh, 1971 war veteran will flag off from Jaisalmer on December 1 and the closing ceremony will be on December 5 where many programmes will be organised in Longewala and Jaisalmer. On Monday a team of 20 Indian Army cyclists of embarked upon cyclothon from Jalipa to Myjlar in western Rajasthan. The team was flagged off by Subedar Major Sagat Singh (Retd) 1971 war veteran who took part in Operation Cactus Lily. The team halted at Barmer, where it payed homage at Shaheed Chowk to the martyrs. Thereafter, the team moved to Ramsar and Gadra towns, where they were greeted by locals. At Gadra town, in addition to meeting the locals, the team paid homage at the Shaheed Smarak of Indian Railways. The memorial is in the memory of 17 Indian railway workers who in spite of heavy shelling by Pakistani Air Force in 1965, repaired the damaged portions of the railway track. This ensured continuous logistic supply line to the soldiers. The team then reached Munabao, which has huge historical significance. Munabao was the main base for deep offensive into enemy territory in 1971 war. The Indian Army from Munabao marched at lightning speed against all odds 60 km inside enemy territory and captured a massive feature called ‘Parbat Ali’ under Operation Cactus Lily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/armys-cyclothon-to-celebrate-1971-war-win-reaches-munabao/articleshow/79499622.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man reunited with 3-year-old son sold by traffickers last year||AHMEDABAD: Upon the Gujarat high court’s intervention, Gujarat police reunited a man with his 3-year-old son, who was allegedly sold to unknown persons at Rs 50,000. The child has been handed over to the father by Gondal town police after tracing him from Tamil Nadu. The probe revealed the child’s mother too was involved in the crime, and she was booked along with three others for duping her husband, for indulging in human trafficking and under the Juvenile Justice Act. Cops found the woman had remarried and this revelation also exposed a bride-selling racket. In this case, Gondal town resident Ajay Dharajiya got married to Jaishree alias Pooja. He had paid Rs 2.5 lakh to two matchmakers, Ramaben and Rajiyaben, and to Pooja’s brother, Sonu Payat for the marriage. During their cohabitation, Pooja bore him a son. In December 2019, Pooja and the child disappeared and Dharajiya and his mother filed a complaint with police that Payat had abducted Pooja and the child. The police didn’t act on the complaints. Dharajiya then moved the high court last month. His advocate Nishit Gandhi said, “When the high court questioned about evidence, my client did not have a marriage certificate. But they had obtained Aadhar cards for the woman and the child. This established the relationship.” He further said, “When the court inquired, the police submitted that it was a case of matrimonial dispute. But the judges insisted on production of the woman before it. This launched an intensive search. The boy was traced from a family in Tamil Nadu and reunited with my client. The woman too was found to have been married for the second time.” The exposure of the bride-selling racket led to registration of an FIR against the four persons, including Pooja, for cheating Dharajiya and selling the child. It was also revealed that Payat is not Pooja’s brother. The high court is to hear the case further on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-reunited-with-3-year-old-son-sold-by-traffickers-last-year/articleshow/79480567.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||No strict action, convictions: Doc protection Act remains on paper||Nagpur: After a mob created ruckus at Meditrina Hospital on Covid-19 over bills on November 17, police registered an FIR and booked the miscreants under Maharashtra Medicare Service, Persons and Medicare Institutions (Prevention of Violence and damage or loss of property) Act 2010 on November 24. The hospital authorities have named five persons, and mentioned they were associated with a political party. They also alleged that the group created hype about the incident in local media. TOI has the copy of the FIR. This is not the first case of doctors being assaulted where cops have booked miscreants under the new act with stringent provisions. However, no deterrent action was ever taken, nor has a conviction happened in any of the cases so far. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) has written to the commissioner of police on November 27, highlighting the concerns of the medical fraternity about fearful working atmosphere created by vigilante groups, who are ‘creating terror in minds of doctors and hospitals by running kangaroo courts’. “These mischief mongers take law in their hands and conduct media trials to gain political brownie points. They threaten doctors and create unwanted acrimony in minds of public. The corona warriors are living in a state of dread and unable to practice their profession in peace,” reads the petition signed by VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat, convener Dr Anup Marar and secretary Dr Alok Umre. Dr Marar said any offence committed under the said Act must be cognisable, non-bailable and triable by the court of judicial magistrate first class. “In addition to the punishment, the offender must be liable to pay compensation for twice the amount of damage or loss caused to property,” he said. “The Constitution grants us the fundamental right to practice our profession, occupation and enterprise without any fear. We have requested all police stations to enforce the act as per its spirit and contents so as to instill fear of law in minds of mischief mongers,” said Dr Umre. DOCTORS UNDER THREAT - After some private hospitals were penalized and asked to reduce Covid-19 bills, many politically motivated groups taking advantage of situation - Groups create planned ruckus in hospitals and pressurize administration to reduce bills - Police are adding Maharashtra Medicare Service, Persons and Medicare Institutions (Prevention of Violence and damage or loss of property) Act 2010 in FIRs - No further deterrent action is taken - Till date no conviction have been reported under this act||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-strict-action-convictions-doc-protection-act-remains-on-paper/articleshow/79499627.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||185 wildfires gut over 240 hectares of Uttarakhand forests in October-November||DEHRADUN: Even after the onset of winter, a season not known for jungle fires, 185 incidents of wildfire have been reported in Uttarakhand from October 1 to November 30, gutting nearly 242 hectares of forests. According to official data, the untimely fires have cost Rs 6.82 lakh to the state exchequer and as many as 1,600 big trees have charred in forest fires in Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi. Officials said that around 1,100 personnel have been deployed to douse the flames. The maximum of 56 wildfire incidents (between October 1 and November 30) have been recorded in Uttarkashi, followed by 38 such occurrences in Pauri Garhwal, 29 in Almora, 27 in Bageshwar, and 14 in Pithoragarh. Area-wise, Pauri Garhwal has lost the maximum forest cover with 72.1 hectares getting wiped out in wildfires, followed by Bageshwar (47.27 hectares), Uttarkashi (38.8 hectares) and Almora (36.5 hectares). The issue has also raised concern among locals and activists. “There are so many forest fires in and around Nainital and the Kumaon hills on a daily basis, doesn't seem they're caused by the weather. There has to be a thorough investigation to expose the timber mafia and officials behind this,” said Noman Siddiqui, a wildlife enthusiast. When asked about the involvement of timber mafias or poachers in causing wildfires to either procure timber or trap wild animals, Man Singh, nodal officer (forest fires), Uttarakhand forest department, said, “The poachers are very well aware that the forest teams will reach the spot as soon as smoke arises and thus, it is doubtful that they are behind these forest fires.” The official added, “Majority of the wildfires are actually being lit by local villagers for fodder and timber. Our teams are working hard to spread awareness among them so that they refrain from this since it puts the entire forest ecology in jeopardy. Also, scanty rainfall and dry weather have proven favourable for such wildfires. Some of our firefighters have also sustained injuries while dousing these wildfires.” According to forest officials, the wildfires are sporadic in nature and turning into a blaze due to climate change as the forest floor has scanty moisture due to lack of rainfall. In November this year, the temperature levels in Uttarakhand were higher as compared to the previous year. Further, the south-west monsoon ended with a 21% rain deficiency in the first month of the post-monsoon season which led to a 99% rain deficit in Uttarakhand, according to the regional meteorological department. The state received 0.1mm rainfall between October 1 and October 31 against a normal of 33.6 mm. Barring Pithoragarh and Chamoli, all other districts of the state received “zero rainfall”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/185-wildfires-gut-over-240-hectares-of-ukhand-forests-in-oct-nov-over-1000-fire-fighters-deployed/articleshow/79497242.cms||Shivani Azad
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital’s recovery rate goes past 93%||JAIPUR: While the percentage of Covid-19 deaths among patients with no co-morbid conditions has increased across the state, the biggest dedicated Covid RUHS Hospital has succeeded in achieving 93.2% recovery rate of patients admitted to the hospital with the infection. The RUHS Hospital reported 750 Covid deaths out of the 11,079 patients admitted to the hospital for Covid treatment, since first case was admitted for treatment in the hospital. The mortality rate due to Covid at RUHS Hospital is 6.8%. RUHS Hospital is the biggest dedicated Covid hospital in the state with 1,200 bed capacity for Covid treatment. “Every day, we admit more than 400 patients to our hospital. We have managed to achieve recovery rate of more than 90%. Three medicine units from SMS Medical College have been shifted to RUHS Hospital for Covid patients’ treatment. Professors take rounds of the Covid wards daily,” said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College. He added that the patients are getting all the healthcare services free of cost for Covid. “Once a patient is brought to emergency unit, we immediately conduct his CT scan, which is absolutely free of cost. The cost of the test in some labs is as high as Rs1,800. Also, costly injections such as tocilizumab and remdesivir are provided free of cost. Blood investigations include cytokine markers, Interleukin 6 (IL-6), d-dimer — all tests are free. ICUs and ventilators are provided to patients free of cost. We are taking care of the patients and the government is not charging any money for the treatment including medicines at RUHS Hospital,” said Dr Bhandari. RUHS Hospital is a hope for patients not only from Jaipur but also for patients from other parts of the state. On Monday, 432 patients were admitted to RUHS Hospital. Out of those, 268 were from Jaipur, while rest of them were from different parts of the state, including 10 from other states such as Bihar, UP, Delhi, Gujarat and Haryana. “The bed occupancy in our hospital was 36.3% on Monday. We have sufficient number of beds available with oxygen support, ICU beds and beds with ventilator support,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, RUHS Hospital. Dr Singh said that the recovery rate of patients at RUHS is more than 93%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dedicated-covid-ruhs-hospitals-recovery-rate-goes-past-93/articleshow/79499619.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Parks closed in Hanuman Nagar Extn||Jaipur: Public parks in Hanuman Nagar extension have remained locked since March and despite government orders those have not opened. There are six parks in the colony out of which only two are opened for the public for two hours in morning and evening. Hanuman Nagar Colony management committee members said this was being done to prevent the spread of Covid. Residents of colony, however, alleged that movement in the public parks have always been restricted. Shubham Trivedi (name change), a resident of the colony, said for years it has been a trend to keep the time limit set for public parks. Similarly, people from outside the colony who come there for running and walking have been barred. Outsiders have been told that the parks are for the use of people of the colony. “Who has given the rights to the colony management to close the parks,” said Sheetal Sharma (name changed), another resident.Officials in Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) claimed that any step to shut down of public parks will be dealt with strictly and the JDA will look into any complaints if filed by residents. President of the Hanuman Nagar Extension Colony Management Committee Ram Kumar Singh said, “Parks are meant for walking and not for running. If we open the parks for everyone, people will start running and playing cricket. Many elderlies come for morning walks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parks-closed-in-hanuman-nagar-extn/articleshow/79499629.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||City police conduct drills to tackle riots||Coimbatore: The city police conducted drills at three places on Monday to check their preparedness to tackle mass protests and riots.As many as 20 police teams, each led by a sub-inspector and 10 cops from 15 police stations, were stationed across the city on Monday morning. Groups of cops in plain clothes acted as unruly mobs and staged road blocks near a petrol bunk at Kuniyamuthur and the Gandhipuram bus stand. After alerted by the police control room, police teams rushed to the places. The SIs used a megaphone to order the ‘protesters’ to disperse from the place. Those who fail to obey the instruction will be lathi-charged, the officers said. When the ‘protesters’ refused to budge, police used force to remove them from the road and ‘arrested’ them.Meanwhile, cops in plain clothes staged a group clash near the Textool bridge at Ganapathy. A police team arrived there to chase them away and also ‘arrested’ some of them.Such drills will teach the personnel how to handle tense situations, deputy commissioner of police G Stalin said. “Cops should follow the legal formalities. During the mock drills, they held talks with the protesters. When the situation was out of control, they used mild lathi-charge. Mock drills teach cops to quickly respond to instructions from the control room and build confidence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-police-conduct-drills-to-tackle-riots/articleshow/79499630.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two try to sexually assault ex-maid, call cops after she resists||CHENNAI: The Tambaram police on Sunday arrested a doctor and his relative for locking up their former domestic maid and trying to sexually abuse her. Of the accused, police said, Deepak, 28, of CTO Colony works in a city hospital, while his relative Anand Amirtharaj, 34, is an employee of a private bank. The incident happened on Saturday evening when the two men called the police control room and said they had caught their former maid while trying to steal valuables from the house. A team of the Tambaram police which rushed there and took the woman into their custody found she had suffered injuries to the face and hands. Suspecting that she could have been attacked, police took the three to the police station, where inquiries revealed that the two men had sought sexual favour from the woman and attacked her when she resisted and tried to seek police help. Police said the woman entered Deepak’s house in October as a maid and began cooking for Deepak and his father. Later, police said, she did not like Deepak’s behaviour and quit her job. But some of her salary was pending and Deepak kept turning a deaf ear to her repeated requests. On Saturday evening, she again went to Deepak’s house to demand her salary when he and Anand Amirtharaj tried to misbehave with her. While trying to escape, she suffered injuries. She warned them that she would file a police complaint, but before she could do so, the accused themselves called the police control room and accused of her stealing valuables from house. The two men were booked under the Woman Harassment Act before a court sent them to jail. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-try-to-sexually-assault-ex-maid-call-cops-after-she-resists/articleshow/79499639.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI Covid hospital gets over 100 patients over past few weeks||CHANDIGARH: The PGI Covid hospital has had over 100 patients over the last few weeks with patients from neighbouring states admitted there. As per latest data from PGI, 125 patients from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are admitted there. “There was a drop in the number of patients in the beginning of the month and soon after Diwali, the numbers started increasing. Of course, the count is still low as compared to September and before, which was over 250,” said a PGI faculty member. Most of the patients are reporting with complications, including those of kidney, heart, liver and other serious illnesses. “There is delay in treatment as well. These complications arise due to late admission in hospital. We have a recovery rate of more than 75% but if cases come late, it becomes challenging for us too,” said a senior doctor in Nehru Extension Hospital, PGI. Doctors warned of increase in Covid admissions after Diwali both due to pollution levels and onset of winters. “We were predicting rise in the patient count, which had fallen for a few days before Diwali. During winter, respiratory tract infections are common and the Covid virus can be confused with the same symptoms and missed,” said a public expert. He added, “As no one goes for testing for a common cold or respiratory infection, Covid cases cannot be monitored and thus the spread can be easy.” In the beginning of the month, there were around 65 patients in the Covid hospital and most of these cases are from Punjab. “These patients are referred to PGI even if they could have been managed in the state. This delays treatment time and can add to the severity,” said a senior doctor in PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-covid-hospital-gets-over-100-patients-over-past-few-weeks/articleshow/79499631.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad crosses 50,000 cases, last 5,000 in 16 days||AHMEDABAD: With 312 new cases in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday, the Covid tally in Ahmedabad district crossed 50,000 cases, to reach 50,162. The district accounts for 24% of the state’s total number of cases, which rose to 2.09 lakh with 1,502 new cases in these 24 hours. The district recently crossed 2,000 Covid deaths, accounting for 52% of all deaths of Gujarat. In these 24 hours, the district saw 13 more Covid deaths, taking its total to 2,060. Gujarat in these 24 hours recorded 20 deaths, the highest one-day toll for the past 97 days. The new cases in Gujarat included 266 from Surat, 187 from Vadodara, and 140 from Rajkot. The four cities accounted for 905 daily cases. Vadodara has now crossed 20,000 total cases, at 20,099. The deaths in 24 hours included two from Surat, and one each from Vadodara, Gandhinagar, Morbi, Mehsana and Rajkot. City-based experts said this second wave of cases has hit the city hard. “The post-festivities surge is apparent, with the district recording more than 300 cases on each of the past seven days. Mortality is also high compared to the past two months. Cases and deaths have reached the levels of early August,” said a city-based epidemiologist. “The reason Ahmedabad is becoming the epicentre of the pandemic may be attributed to multiple factors such as population density, more movement of people across cities, and the lack of basic precautions during the festival period.” The state in these 24 hours recorded 1,401 patient discharges, taking the share of discharged patients to 91% at 1.9 lakh. With a slight dip in the cases, on Monday morning private hospitals in the city had occupancy levels of 88%, falling below 90% after more than a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-crosses-50k-cases-last-5k-in-16-days/articleshow/79500236.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Barmer: Woman lodges case against youth for blackmail and rape||JAISALMER: A woman has lodged a case against a youth for blackmailing her in Balotara police station area of Barmer district on Monday. The woman reached the SP office demanding action against the culprit. She alleged in her complaint that the accused gave her some edible item laced with drugs and clicked her objectionable photos. In a memorandum submitted to the SP, the victim said around two months ago she had gone to attend a marriage function in Punjab where she met a youth named Manoj. Later, the youth had come to Balotara and took her to a place where he gave her some drugs and later clicked her objectionable photos in unconscious state. He also cheated her in the name of marriage and took money from her on many occasions. After that too he clicked her photos many times and took her to Sindhari by blackmailing her and raped her. A case had been lodged with Balotara police station, but no action was taken. Therefore she came to the SP office demanding justice. SP Anand Sharma said the victim and her family members met him and the entire case is being investigated. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per the Supreme Court's directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/woman-lodges-case-against-youth-for-blackmail-and-rape/articleshow/79499628.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Sawant reiterates plan to reduce coal handling at MPT||Panaji: Even as Mormugao Port Trust’s (MPT) masterplan envisages the port to be developed as a coal/coke import hub, chief minister Pramod Sawant has reiterated that the state government is serious in reducing coal handling at MPT. “We will reduce coal handling by 50%, and if we find alternative commodities then we will stop 100% coal handling at MPT,” Sawant said. “ I have sought a detailed report on coal handling from Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) within eight days,” Sawant told reporters on Monday. When reporters pointed out that the Sagarmala project mentions coal handling projection in the state, Sawant said the government is not creating infrastructure for coal handling, and stated that “some people are trying to link this to coal handling”. TOI reported that the latest set of official documents pertaining to the Sagarmala projects proposed in Goa has only accentuated the coal conundrum. “The infrastructure is not for coal. MPT has sent a letter to the Union shipping minister stating that the four projects proposed by the consultant are not possible in the state,” he said. Sawant said if a consultant proposes any project, it does not mean that those will come up in the state. “I have given instructions to GSPCB to visit the port and re-check the quantity of coal handling,” he said. When asked if then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had rejected the double-tracking project, Sawant said, “Parrikar had never rejected the project, rather he had written to the Union government highlighting the concerns of the people. Parrikar had pointed out the need to save some houses if these will be demolished for the double-tracking project,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-reiterates-plan-to-reduce-coal-handling-at-mpt/articleshow/79500658.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Why the second week after onset is crucial||AHMEDABAD: The period between the seventh and tenth day after the onset of Covid – extending up to 14 days in some cases – not only gives patients new symptoms and health issues, but has doctors extra vigilant, whether the patient is at home or in a hospital setting. Dr Kartikeya Parmar, coordinator for the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital at Civil Hospital, said that the host response gets triggered in the body in this period. “Before seven days, if the patient has mild symptoms, no apparent comorbidities and is below 60 years of age, the virus remains in the upper respiratory tract. But after approximately a week of the infection, the infection starts spreading to the lung tissues,” he said. “Patients then show symptoms such as difficulty in breathing, pneumonia and hypoxia (lack of oxygen). If the patient is in the vulnerable age group or has comorbidities, and is not in the medical setting, this period becomes critical,” said Dr Amit Prajapati, a city-based critical care specialist. “The phenomenon known as cytokine storm damages internal organs such as lungs, heart and kidneys. If the virus causes blood clots, the patient can get a heart attack, stroke or deep-vein thrombosis. If the patient is in a medical setting during this period, his or her chances of survival increase significantly.” Dr Manoj Singh, a city-based critical care specialist, said the phenomenon is also understood as immune pathogenesis – or how the progression of the disease results in the immune response of the body. “In some patients, medical issues such as flared-up diabetes and inflammatory markers are observed. Its very much possible that for the initial five to six days, the patient is normal or has mild to moderate symptoms. As the second week progresses, the parameters change and mortality increases if the patient is not in a medical setting,” he said. “The trick now lies in identifying which patient may turn critical and start treatment accordingly. It’s essential to approach doctors at the onset of major symptoms and monitor blood oxygen level and biomarkers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-the-second-week-after-onset-is-crucial/articleshow/79500077.cms||Parth Shastri
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Greens draw CM’s attention on Sariska tiger relocation||JAIPUR: As suspected inbreeding has deterred the steady tiger population growth at the Sariska Tiger Reserve, wildlife lovers have requested chief minister Ashok Gehlot to review the tiger relocation programme. Total of 9 tigers have been relocated from Ranthambore National Park (RNP), till date. Out of these, five relocated big cats were females and four never delivered a cub at Sariska. As per the data, the relocated tigress ST-3 is now around 14 years old and ST-5 was poached in 2018. The tigresses named ST-7 and ST-8 could be facing the same fate as they are now over 8 years old and have not yet delivered any litters. A letter dated November 21, written by founder of Sariska Tiger Foundation and a patron of wildlife, Dinesh Durrani reads, “The state government involve wildlife scientists to review the relocation programme. We believe that one of the potential causes could be inbreeding. Several states like Maharashtra and MP with high numbers of tiger population, are willing to participate in the exchange of tigers in order to diversify the gene pool of the species which will directly result in improving the chances of survival and production of offspring.” Other than this, to add more life to the reserve, green activists and wildlife lovers have demanded to re-introduce it in the forest. “As historical records suggest, there exists a place in Sariska called ‘Reechunda’ which literally translates to ‘the place of reech’ i.e. sloth bear. Sloth bears have been found in plenty in the forest regions such as that of Mount Abu and are venturing out in human settlements increasing the possibility of man-animal conflict. A relocation from such areas to Sariska could be considered a potential solution to the issue,” reads the letter. An Indian Forest Officer (IFS) posted at STR, on condition of anonymity said, “Earlier, a male sloth bear, relocated in STR was sighted for around 4-5 years. In that duration several letters to the forest department were written to relocate some females so that the species of sloth bears can flourish in Sariska. Sadly, no efforts were made. The sloth bear was suspected to be poached as its carcass was not found.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/greens-draw-cms-attention-on-sariska-tiger-relocation/articleshow/79499644.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 20 Covid cases, one death||Kolhapur: The district reported 20 fresh patients and one Covid death on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 49,060. The death toll has risen to 1,679. The number of active cases has come down to 398 after 55 patients were discharged on Monday. As many as 46,983 patients have recovered. Kolhapur city reported nine Covid cases of the fresh cases, taking the total tally to 14,915 . Of the 41 Covid centres and hospitals, there are no patients in 26 centres. Currently, 278 patients are home-isolated. Sangli, Kolhapur’s neighbouring district, reposted 35 fresh cases and one death. Of the total 46,783 patients in the district, 1,697 have succumbed to the infection, 44,635 have recovered and 451 are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, Satara district reported 88 new Covid cases and five deaths due to the infection since Sunday night, taking the total number of cases to 51,147. The death toll has risen to 1,718. As many as 48,380 patients have recovered from Covid while 1,049 are undergoing treatment. Satara tehsil added 28 new cases, Phaltan tehsil reported 26 new cases, 11 people tested positive in Wai among others  Solapur rural reported 152 fresh cases while 120 patients were discharged after recovering since Sunday late night. The rural parts also recorded four Covid deaths. A total of 35,482 patients have been reported so far, of them, 1,040 have succumbed to Covid, 32,688 have recovered and 1,754 are undergoing treatment. Solapur city recorded 27 news cases and 24 patients were discharged since late night on Sunday. No death was reported. The city has recorded 10,387 patients so far. Of them, 9,395 have recovered and 562 have died due to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-20-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/79497271.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||One more arrested in child selling racket||Nagpur: The crime branch arrested Jai Naidu from Goa Colony in Sadar on Monday for his alleged role behind selling a four-year-old girl to undercover cops on Saturday. Police have so far arrested five women and their accomplice. Police said Naidu, Laxmi Rana and Sharmila Khakse were the key operators in the child selling racket in which involvement of doctors and their staffers cannot be ruled out. While Naidu would be produced before the court on Tuesday, the six earlier arrested are in PCR till December 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-more-arrested-in-child-selling-racket/articleshow/79499641.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Water supply in Kolhapur to resume today||KOLHAPUR: The water supply to B, C and D wards of Kolhapur city will resume from Tuesday afternoon, as the repair works at Balinga pumping station has been completed. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) had announced water cuts for two days starting from Monday. On Monday, citizens from several parts in these wards had to face inconvenience. The officials said the citizens were asked to store water in advance, for which water was supplied for additional hours since the last few days.  The citizens of C ward, the smallest ward, faced water scarcity. The localities here such as Shukrawar Peth and Budhwar Peth are located at a height and supply there is proper only if the high rise tanks are filled to their full capacity, which then gives adequate pressure. Some suburbs such as Phulewadi ring road also did not receive water. The citizens here depend on borewells due to poor network of supply pipelines. Narayan Bhosale, the acting chief hydraulic engineer said, “We deployed four water tankers for these localities as there was less demand from other wards. We observed that despite our prior notice, many had emptied their storage tank in anticipation of water supply in the morning.” Many parts in the old city, which comes under B ward, received water from Panyacha Khajina, tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/water-supply-in-city-to-resume-today/articleshow/79497276.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Coaching centres mull opening, many decide against it||CHANDIGARH: After schools and colleges, a few coaching centres are also all set to reopen for students from December 1. Initially, students will only be allowed to come to get their doubts cleared. However, not many centres are preparing to open. The administration has already allowed coaching centers to reopen, for which SoPs and guidelines have been issued. According to sources, if instructions and guidelines are not followed, the coaching centres may be fined or sealed. As per guidelines, not more than 40% students will be allowed to remain present in the centres at any given point of time. Students will have to be seated at a fixed distance to ensure social distancing norms. A gap of six feet will be mandatory. Coaching centres will provide masks and sanitisers. Like schools and colleges, centres will also have to provide thermal scanning at the gate. Students will have to bring water bottles from home. Some of the centers in sectors 15, 25 and 34, which plan to open, have shared guidelines with students. Raj Malhotra, owner of an institute in Sector 25 that trains students for civil services said, “We are all prepared to open as there are more than 100 students waiting for physical classes to begin. In keeping with the guidelines, we will have two persons with thermal scanners and oxy meter at the entrance. Masks will be mandatory and each student will be sanitised. A distance of six feet will be maintained in the classroom. While we had 170 students in one batch earlier, we will now have 35 students in each batch. We are planning three batches and after every class, rooms will be sanitised.” Most private tutors and a few big coaching institutes are still to decide on opening. Vinay Makin from one of the coaching institutes in industrial area, Sector 34 said, “We are still waiting for instructions.” Kunal Singh, physics trainer for JEE and NEET said, “As per Chandigarh administration coaching infrastructure norms, Chandigarh centre classrooms are small as compared to coaching class spaces in other states. Moreover, parents are concerned about children. So we are not eager to open yet.” A few centres have decided against opening this year. Dr Arvind Goyal, NEET trainer from Sector 37 said, “We have already informed students that this session we will not be taking physical classes. It’s not possible to keep six feet distance and follow all Covid protocols in the classroom and centre since space is limited and it is not possible to teach with mask on. It won’t be safe keeping the rising cases of Covid in mind. If parents feel unsafe about sending kids to school, why will they send them to coaching centres?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coaching-centres-mull-opening-many-decide-against-it/articleshow/79499642.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer: Row over carpet theft becomes violent, 1 killed||AJMER: One person died while another was injured when an argument over stealing of carpet after a wedding ceremony turned violent. The injured was taken to JLN Hospital for treatment. The accused later fled from the spot. Police are searching for him. According to Alwar Gate police a wedding ceremony took place at Gujjar Dharti. After the wedding, tent-owner Pukhraj and his son Aniket were busy removing the tent on Monday morning. During that time one person identified as Gauri Shankar came and took away one carpet. Pukhraj objected to this and accused Gauri Shankar of stealing it. An argument ensued, a drunk Gauri Shankar took a pair of scissors from his pocket and attacked Pukhraj. Aniket rushed to his father’s rescue but he was also attacked and died on the spot. Police have registered a case and sent Aniket’s body for post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/row-over-carpet-theft-becomes-violent-1-killed/articleshow/79499643.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Proposal for land transfer of MLA flats to be sent for cabinet nod||JAIPUR: Land transfer for the construction of luxurious multi-storey MLA apartments in Jyoti Nagar is likely to be transferred soon. The state government is all set to send the proposal for cabinet’s nod. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will transfer 22,260 square-metre land to Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) after approval. An official said, “Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal will send a proposal to the cabinet for approval. Once a nod is received, the possession of land will be taken over by the general administration department (GAD) and then transferred to the RHB,” he said. The RHB will take possession of 54 MLA bungalows and sell it off after demolition. The revenue earned after selling the land of these bungalows at Lal Kothi and Jalupura will be utilised to construct the apartments. An official said that the RHB had proposed to construct an eight-storey building in the periphery of legislative assembly to accommodate 160 MLAs. Considering the project as a special case, the 28-metre building height has been proposed against the 15-metre mentioned in the building bylaws. Although, the design has received in-principle approval, the final nod to provide relaxation in the bylaws will be given by the UDH minister, as for the assembly’s structural dominance, in the 100-metre periphery, the height of the buildings is restricted up to 15 metre. At present, RHB has proposed to construct the apartment till the base height of the dome. After the work was awarded to RHB, a design of the apartments has been prepared. The flats will measure 3,200 square-feet and comprise four bedrooms, one drawing room, a kitchen and a room for domestic help. As per the previous design, the JDA has proposed 176 flats. However, the idea did not go well with the committee which is overseeing the project, as the open area was less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/proposal-for-land-transfer-of-mla-flats-to-be-sent-for-cabinet-nod/articleshow/79499638.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vadodara||Liquor bottle found on man held for not wearing mask||VADODARA: A mistake of not wearing face mask landed a citizen in the police net on Monday. Mahesh Bhadoriya was driving his two-wheeler in Fatehgunj when the police intercepted his vehicle as he wasn’t wearing a face mask. The cops asked him to pay the penalty for flouting the Covid-19 guidelines. According to the police, their team also checked Bhadoriya’s two-wheeler and found one bottle of liquor. He was immediately booked under the Prohibition Act. He told the police that he was a native of Uttar Pradesh and has been staying in Sama area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/liquor-bottle-found-on-man-held-for-not-wearing-mask/articleshow/79497278.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan rural body polls: Over 57 lakh people to cast vote in third phase today||JAIPUR: The third phase of elections to posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in 21 districts on Tuesday. In all, elections will be held to the posts of 1,016 members in 52 panchayat samitis as 57.09 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 7,964 polling stations. State election commissioner P S Mehra said in the third phase, elections will be held from 7.30 am to 5 pm. He informed that 20,000 EVMs will be used and more than 40,000 officials will be deployed for election duty. Of the total voters (57.09 lakh), 29.48 lakh are male voters, 27.61 lakh female and 21 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. In all, 63.18 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members in 21 districts. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms not to stand in a group near the polling booths. Meanwhile, in a bid to protect poll officials from spread of Covid infection, district election officer of Dungarpur Suresh Kumar Ola has introduced a token system for booth incharges for collection of election material at the training venue. Mehra said all information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-57-lakh-people-to-cast-vote-in-third-phase-today/articleshow/79508974.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Interstate gang of car thieves busted||Coimbatore: The Madukkarai police on Monday busted a gang that stole luxury cars from Bengaluru and seized 11 vehicles worth Rs 1.5 crore from a garage at Sundarapuram here.Coimbatore superintendent of police Ara Arularasu had received a tip off about a gang that was smuggling contraband goods in stolen rental cars. A police team conducting vehicle check near Apple Garden at Arisipalayam near Madukkarai on Monday stopped a car without registration number and arrested three people.Police identified them as M Surendran, 23, of Kulasekaranallur in Thoothukudi district, M Vijayaraj, 23, of Kalmanickapuram near Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district and M Sakthi, 22, of Kurumbapalayam junction near Eachanari.Preliminary investigation revealed that the trio, along with Sadiq and Imran, who own a garage at Sundarapuram and Dinesh, a hotel owner, used to visit Bengaluru to rent luxury cars. “Though the cars had GPS tracking devices, the gang used to remove them before entering Tamil Nadu. They were planning to pledge some cars for money and sell parts of others,” Arularasu said. “The thieves had stolen seven rental cars from Bengaluru. They also stole four cars from garages there. They were involved in the thefts for the last six months.”The police team seized 11 cars, including an Audi Q7.Police are on the lookout for Sadiq, Imran and Dinesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/interstate-gang-of-car-thieves-busted/articleshow/79499672.cms||A Subburaj
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand mulls nixing scheme that gives Rs 50,000 for inter-faith marriages||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand, one of the first states to have passed a law against 'love jihad', may end monetary benefits extended to couples who had an inter-faith marriage. This move is being mulled after the state government got into a sticky situation recently when the social welfare department issued a press release providing details of 18 couples in one district alone (Tehri) who had benefited from a scheme which provides Rs 50,000 for inter-faith marriages. Uttarakhand had in 2018 passed the ‘Freedom of Religion Bill’, entailing a two-year jail term for anyone found guilty of religious conversion through force or allurement. With it, the Himalayan state had joined states like Odisha, MP, Chhattisgarh, HP and Gujarat to have the anti-conversion law in one form or the other. Recently, when the social welfare department issued its press release outlining benefits given under the scheme to inter-faith couples, questions were raised by a section of people who alleged that the government was promoting 'love jihad' by continuing with such schemes. The CM, TS Rawat, was quick to order a probe in the matter. Sources, meanwhile, said that the state administration, in a fix now over the issue, is mulling dropping the financial assistance for inter-faith marriages. It is likely to continue with the monetary assistance for inter-caste marriages though. Asked about it, state urban development minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik told TOI, “The scheme was brought in during the time of the Congress government when Uttarakhand was part of Uttar Pradesh in 1976. Again, the Congress government when in power in 2014, raised the amount from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 for inter-religion marriages. However, when we came up with our Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018 and it was cleared in the state assembly, the scheme became null and void.” He added that “the scheme has been scrapped but if there is still some confusion, it will be sorted out soon.” Meanwhile, the opposition Congress attacked BJP on the issue, saying that it is “misleading people yet again.” Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said, “The scheme had been in existence even before the formation of the state and has not been scrapped and still continues. Secondly, even if the scheme is scrapped, how can one prevent two persons hailing from different religions from marrying, as it is a right provided by our Constitution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-mulls-ending-scheme-that-gives-rs-50k-for-inter-faith-marriages/articleshow/79497287.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula residents want postponement of MC polls||PANCHKULA: The Haryana government is taking serious steps to prevent the second wave of Covid-19 in the state, but they are also going to announce dates for the municipal corporation (MC) elections in Panchkula. Considering this, residents wrote a letter to the chief minister demanding postponement of the MC elections till situation turns normal. Members of citizen welfare association (CWA) said they held a meeting with the members of 17 resident welfare associations (RWAs) and they all showed concerned towards containing the spread of the deadly virus and request the government to postpone the elections. Lily Bawa, senior vice-president of the CWA, S K Chhabra, secretary general of the CWA and a majority of retired officers from the defence are of the opinion that: “The government must not conduct the MC election and they will not participate in the same if it happens during the pandemic.” There seems to be a little scope of attendance and percentage in the forthcoming elections, thus under these circumstances, it would be better, to rethink before issuing necessary notification, said members of the RWAs. Nayar said, “In larger public interest, it is the demand of the time for the safety, protection and security of the public. It would be highly appreciated if elections are postponed till there is a vaccine for the disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-residents-want-postponement-of-mc-polls/articleshow/79499665.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan rural body polls: Over 57 lakh people to cast vote in third phase today||JAIPUR: The third phase of elections to posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in 21 districts on Tuesday. In all, elections will be held to the posts of 1,016 members in 52 panchayat samitis as 57.09 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 7,964 polling stations. State election commissioner P S Mehra said in the third phase, elections will be held from 7.30 am to 5 pm. He informed that 20,000 EVMs will be used and more than 40,000 officials will be deployed for election duty. Of the total voters (57.09 lakh), 29.48 lakh are male voters, 27.61 lakh female and 21 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. In all, 63.18 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members in 21 districts. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms not to stand in a group near the polling booths. Meanwhile, in a bid to protect poll officials from spread of Covid infection, district election officer of Dungarpur Suresh Kumar Ola has introduced a token system for booth incharges for collection of election material at the training venue. Mehra said all information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-57-lakh-people-to-cast-vote-in-third-phase-today/articleshow/79508976.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan rural body polls: Over 57 lakh people to cast vote in third phase today||JAIPUR: The third phase of elections to posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in 21 districts on Tuesday. In all, elections will be held to the posts of 1,016 members in 52 panchayat samitis as 57.09 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 7,964 polling stations. State election commissioner P S Mehra said in the third phase, elections will be held from 7.30 am to 5 pm. He informed that 20,000 EVMs will be used and more than 40,000 officials will be deployed for election duty. Of the total voters (57.09 lakh), 29.48 lakh are male voters, 27.61 lakh female and 21 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. In all, 63.18 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members in 21 districts. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms not to stand in a group near the polling booths. Meanwhile, in a bid to protect poll officials from spread of Covid infection, district election officer of Dungarpur Suresh Kumar Ola has introduced a token system for booth incharges for collection of election material at the training venue. Mehra said all information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-57-lakh-people-to-cast-vote-in-third-phase-today/articleshow/79508978.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan rural body polls: Over 57 lakh people to cast vote in third phase today||JAIPUR: The third phase of elections to posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in 21 districts on Tuesday. In all, elections will be held to the posts of 1,016 members in 52 panchayat samitis as 57.09 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 7,964 polling stations. State election commissioner P S Mehra said in the third phase, elections will be held from 7.30 am to 5 pm. He informed that 20,000 EVMs will be used and more than 40,000 officials will be deployed for election duty. Of the total voters (57.09 lakh), 29.48 lakh are male voters, 27.61 lakh female and 21 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. In all, 63.18 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the second phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members in 21 districts. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the Centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms not to stand in a group near the polling booths. Meanwhile, in a bid to protect poll officials from spread of Covid infection, district election officer of Dungarpur Suresh Kumar Ola has introduced a token system for booth incharges for collection of election material at the training venue. Mehra said all information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-57-lakh-people-to-cast-vote-in-third-phase-today/articleshow/79499678.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Onion prices in Jaipur dip with improved supply||JAIPUR: Here is good news for homemakers who had been worried about the increasing prices of onions. With bumper crop in Maharashtra and good supply at Muhana Mandi, the prices of onions have come down. In coming days it will further dip across the state according to the wholesale traders of onions at Mohana Mandi. TOI on Monday spoke to wholesale dealers of onions at the Muhana Mandi, Sodala Mandi and other vegetable markets across the state to know what has impacted the prices of onions. “We have been selling onions for Rs 75 to Rs 85 in wholesale which in retail market was sold between Rs 80 and Rs 100 as the supply was limited. Also the locally harvested crop of onions was exhausted since August, thus it was very tough,” said Abdul Saleem, a wholesale trader of onions at Muhana Mandi. For the past one week with arrival of good number of onions from places including Nasik the prices of onions in retail market are now Rs 40-Rs 60 per kg. “Smaller sized onions are being sold between Rs 40 and Rs 50 per kg while big ones for Rs 60 per kg,” said Narayan Das, a wholesale trader at Jhotwara vegetable market. Traders added that by mid-December prices will go down further with arrival of locally harvested onions . “December 15 onwards customers will be able to get onions for Rs 30-Rs 40 per kg.” a trader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/onion-prices-in-city-dip-with-improved-supply/articleshow/79499702.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Guest worker murdered by three co-workers||Coimbatore: A guest worker was murdered by his three co-workers at Cheran Maa Nagar in the city on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as B Lalith Kumar, 40, of Darbhanga district in Bihar. He was working at a granite shop on Vilankurichi Road at Cheran Maa Nagar. A Senthilkumar, 32, a native of Subbaiahpuram in Namakkal district, was working as the driver of the shop and two guest workers - P Ramkishore, 25, and L Hanuman, 22, both from Rajasthan, were also working in the granite shop. They were staying on the shop premises.Preliminary inquiry revealed that Lalith Kumar had allegedly stolen Rs 400 from Senthilkumar and Rs 100 from other guest workers a few days ago. When consuming liquor in Sunday night, Senthilkumar, Ramkishore and Hanuman questioned Lalith Kumar for stealing cash from them and assaulted him. Later, they went for sleep. On Monday morning, Senthilkumar found Lalith Kumar dead and escaped from the place. Other two guest workers informed the shop owner who alerted the Peelamedu (law & order) police.A team of police rushed to the spot and sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Ramkishore and Hanuman were detained by police for interrogation. A special team has been formed to nab the absconding Senthilkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/guest-worker-murdered-by-three-co-workers/articleshow/79499683.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Devotees throng gurdwaras to celebrate Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary||CHANDIGARH: The Tricity wore a festive look on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Besides gurdwaras, people offered parsad to commuters on the road. However, the large number of people in gurdwaras made it difficult to follow social distancing norms, even though gurdwara authorities kept asking people to maintain social distancing, wear mask and sanitise hands from time to time. Social distancing was nowhere to be seen in markets set up outside gurdwaras. Chandigarh Samuth Gurdwara Prabhandak Sangathan had instructed all gurudwaras to take safety measures and start langar early to avoid rush. Lakhs of devotes thronged gurdwaras of the Tricity to celebrate the birth anniversary of the first Sikh Guru. People had to wait for 15 to 20 minutes to buy karha parsad and nearly one hour to get darshan. Gurudwaras of sectors 34, 8 and 19 in Chandigarh, Nada Sahib in Panchkula and Amb Sahib in phase VII, Mohali saw great rush of people. People started reaching these gurdwaras early in the morning. In the evening, people lit candles and earthen lamps. Youngsters also burst firecrackers. People of different religions reached gurdwaras, where security arrangements had been made. Community langars were distributed in every gurdwara. These comprised of tea, bread, rusk along with dal, roti, rice, mixed vegetables, kheer and jalebi. A 500 kg cake was made for devotees at Sector 19 gurudwara. Langar was provided to devotees and many gurdwaras offered packed parsad. Members of Chandigarh Rotary Club gifted 500kg sweets to Chandigarh Police as a token of appreciation for the work done by the force in pandemic times. Sweets were distributed among police personnel present and the remaining were sent to various police stations. Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore inaugurated The Museum of Trees through video-conference at Punjab Raj Bhawan, Chandigarh on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/devotees-throng-gurdwaras-to-celebrate-guru-nanaks-birth-anniversary/articleshow/79499703.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 7 involved in cheating, extortion arrested||ALWAR: Cracking a whip on criminals of Mewat involved in cheating and extorting people in the pretext of selling them various items through Olx, Bharatpur police on Monday have arrested seven wanted men who were also wanted by police in 14 states. Police recovered Rs 3.50 lakh, seven tractors, three cars, three motorcycles, a laptop, seven mobiles, 43 bank passbooks, 12 ATM cards and four bank cheque books from the raid. SP Amandeep Singh Kapoor said various gangs active in Mewat region are involved in cheating and extortion of people in the pretext of selling them various items through Olx and other platforms. “On Sunday, we had raided Nagla Kundan village of Jurahara police station area when villagers attacked police and even opened fire. Responding to it, we lobbed teargas shells and used force. We arrested seven persons in this connection. Many have escaped and searches are on to nab them,” Kapoor added. In the primary investigation it was found that accused were involved into placing advertisements on OLX and Facebook. “While a person as a buyer used to come down to these villagers on the address mentioned in the advertisement, the accused used to kidnap them and were into asking big ransom. In many cases people as buyers were thrashed and these people snatched away their valuables including cash and their vehicles,” Kapoor said. Police said the accused targeted people from Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra ,West Bengal, Assam ,Uttar Pradesh ,Madhya Pradesh ,Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan. “The arrested accused were identified as Azharuddin(21), Hassan (42), Ati Mohammed (48), Akhtar Khan( 38), Saddam (27), Shoaib (19) and Saddam (22 ),” he added. Police had raided the village on Sunday in which many policemen got injured. On the other hand, villagers alleged that police thrashed women and kids in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-involved-in-cheating-extortion-arrested/articleshow/79499704.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Gunning for speed violators||Nagpur: In a bid to make driving safe on the newly inaugurated double-decker flyover on Wardha Road, the city traffic police have reduced the speed limit for all vehicles plying on this flyover to 50kmph, though the speed limit in the rest of the city is 60kmph. Signages cautioning drivers have been erected at vantage points on the flyover. On the directives of DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad, Sonegaon traffic police led by senior PI Sandeep Bhosale on Monday caught 90 drivers for violating the speed limit. All the violators will be issued e-challan slapping a fine of Rs1,000 each||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gunning-for-speed-violators/articleshow/79499771.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 1, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Cops solve Sanganer garment factory theft, arrest seven||JAIPUR: Cops have arrested seven persons for breaking into a factory in Sanganer and fleeing with clothes worth Rs 35 lakh. The seven included four burglars and three who were involved in purchasing the stolen goods. On November 5, burglars barged into a garments factory and decamped with readymade clothes. Soon after the incident, various teams were constituted by Jaipur police to crack the case. The arrested were identified as Rameshwar Sharma, resident of Sector 19 Pratap Nagar, Deepak Soni of Malpura Gate, Ashok Kumar Sahu of Malakheda (Alwar) and Mukesh Kumar Mishra of Sector 3, Pratap Nagar. All of them were arrested for burglary. Three shopkeepers were also arrested who have been identified as Afsar, a native of Agra, Ramprasad, a resident of Pratap Nagar, and Lekhraj of Nahargarh area. Primary investigation suggested that Lekhraj has a garments shop at Sikar House while two others including Afsar and Ramprasad run shops at Pratap Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-solve-sanganer-garment-factory-theft-arrest-seven/articleshow/79499730.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||RLA earns over Rs 68 lakh from CH01CC series auction||CHANDIGARH: The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) of the Chandigarh administration has earned over Rs 68 lakh from auction of the CH01CC vehicle series. The amount is the highest from among the CH01CA and CH01CB vehicle series. The authority earned Rs 58 lakh and Rs 48 lakh respectively by auctioning numbers in these series. It is the first time in the Covid-19 pandemic period that the RLA has managed to attract people towards the auction of the CH01CC vehicle series. The authority managed to receive Rs 8 lakh from the first registration number of the series, CH01CC-0001. It also earned well against other numbers of the series. Since RLA, like the other departments of the UT administration, also suffered losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic, less vehicles were registered. Previous auctions were not that successful either. Besides, the RLA office remained closed during curfew and subsequent lockdown. “As we launched the new series during the festival season, significant number of people applied for the fancy number of the CH01CC series. Moreover, the series was also attractive as compared to previous ones. It is also a fact that more vehicles were purchased during this festival season as compared to previous time during Covid-19 period,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rla-earns-over-rs-68-lakh-from-ch01cc-series-auction/articleshow/79499741.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 1, 2020||Goa||Power consumers can apply for OTS scheme by Dec 30||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday launched the One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme, 2020 of the electricity department for consumers who have defaulted on bill payments. An amount of over Rs400 crore has to be recovered, of which delayed payment charges (DPC) itself account for around Rs91 crore. Consumers have to apply for OTS within one month from the launch date. Special counters at sub-division offices have been set up to assist people from villages who want to avail the scheme. Similarly, power consumers who pay their outstanding amounts within two months will get a waiver on the DPC. Speaking at the function, Sawant said, “This government is for the common man and we are trying to simplify the procedure to avoid inconvenience to the people. The bills are pending for the last 30 years and the amount is so huge that court visits go on for another 10 years to get these bills cleared.” Power minister Nilesh Cabral, who was also present at the function, said that consumers can call the department’s helpline if they find difficulties in applying online for the scheme. While appealing to people to avail the scheme, Cabral said that consumers who have not paid their bills during the lockdown can also avail the scheme. The state cabinet had approved OTS scheme, 2020 to give relief to consumers with outstanding bills with the full or part waiver of the charge for delayed payment. The cabinet note approved waiving-off DPC which is 100% waiver for two installments, 80% for three installments, 60% for four installments, 40% for five installments and 20% for six installments. It also stated that one of the reasons for the large number of defaulting consumers is the accumulation of arrears on account of 2% DPC. Despite all efforts being undertaken for recovery of dues, there is a huge amount of arrears piled up against consumers whose installations have been temporarily or permanently disconnected and RCC cases, which at present amount to Rs56 crore up to March 31, 2020. Accumulated arrears of existing connections which are yet to be disconnected amount to Rs137 crore up to September 30, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-consumers-can-apply-for-ots-scheme-by-dec-30/articleshow/79500681.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||CM has lost legitimacy: Tirupur MP||Coimbatore: The BJP – AIADMK alliance would face a severe drubbing in the 2021 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Tirupur MP and CPI national executive committee member K Subbarayan said.Talking to reporters in the city on Monday, Subbarayan slammed the BJP for its handling of the farmers’ protest in New Delhi. He said the three farm laws were anti–farmers and they were brought in an anti–democratic way. Now the Centre is also muzzling a democratic protest by farmers.“Because they are representatives of RSS which is anti–democratic,’’ he charged. “Their slogan Congress –less India and TN without Kazhagams, is nothing but fascism voice,’’ he alleged. But their wish will never happen, he said. He said that the AIADMK alliance would not even win the seats it had won in the past. Subbarayan said that on the other hand DMK alliance would continue its winning streak in the assembly polls.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cm-has-lost-legitimacy-tirupur-mp/articleshow/79499738.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Hit by low prices, farmers dump tomatoes||Coimbatore: Farmers in the district are incurring loss with the prices of tomatoes falling gradually anywhere between Rs 6 and Rs 10 in the last few days from Rs 25 to Rs 30 three months ago. Last week, a group of farmers were found dumping tomatoes on the roadside due to its low prices. Tomatoes are cultivated in about 4,000 to 5,000 hectares in the district. They are grown majorly in areas like Thondamuthur, Narasipuram, Thenkarai, Nachipalayam and Theethipatti. A farmer from Alandurai, A Jagannathan said that he has cultivated tomatoes in three acres and has been selling a kilogram just for Rs 8 to traders through commission mandi.“I have invested over Rs 1.5 lakh and harvested 12,000kg of tomatoes in an acre. The prices have fallen so low that I will not be able to take even the invested amount,” he said. “Apart from the cost of cultivation, we must bear the labour and transportation expenses which come up to Rs 50 per 15kg,” state secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association P Kandasamy said. The decrease in price is mainly due to excess availability of tomatoes. Without being able to sell the tomatoes for a reasonable price and could not store it for one more day, farmers are dumping it on roadsides across the district, he added. Another farmer R Periyasamy said the decrease in prices is mainly due to three reasons – procuring tomatoes from other districts like Mysore and Rayakottai for low price and selling it in local market, drop in number of traders from Kerala who procure tomatoes from local farmers and Covid-19 impact.“Because of the pandemic, none of the educational institutions and hostels, who are bulk procurers, are open. Similarly, there is a significant drop in the number of people invited for marriages, annadhanam in temples and hotels,” he added. Demanding the intervention of the state government, he said that the government should fix a minimum supporting price and help the farmers in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hit-by-low-prices-farmers-dump-tomatoes/articleshow/79499767.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmers slam agri laws||Coimbatore: Farmers here on Monday expressed solidarity with their counterparts protesting against the three farm bills passed by the Parliament.Carrying farm produce, farmers gathered in front of the Coimbatore collector’s office and demanded immediate withdrawal of the Acts. The central government had recently passed the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020.With this, farmers will lose their rights to sow the seeds of plants they wish, president of the Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association Su Palanisamy said. “They will be forced to listen to corporate companies. The companies will play a major role in fixing price of produce, which will affect farmers as well as consumers. We want the central government to hold talks with farmers and withdraw the Acts immediately,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-slam-agri-laws/articleshow/79499758.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Elante store told to pay Rs 1,610 for charging Rs 10 for carry bag||CHANDIGARH: The practice of charging money for carry bags doesn’t seem to end in the city. A store in Elante Mall - Miniso - has been asked to pay up for charging Rs 10 for a carry bag yet again. In the last few months, multiple cases have come against the store for charging for carry bags. Complainant Vivek Saigal, a resident of Sector 44, said in his complaint that he purchased products worth Rs 490 from the store on July 27, 2019. He asked the authorities to provide a carry bag for which they charged Rs 10 extra. By doing so, he alleged that the store committed deficiency in service and also indulged into unfair trade practice and he then filed a consumer complaint. In its written statement, Miniso pleaded that the complainant had neither purchased goods from their store as alleged not is a user and hence does not fall under the definition of ‘consumer’ as prescribed under Section 2(1) (d) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It was further stated that it was the choice of the complainant to purchase the paper carry bag without any pressure or undue influence. They said there was no legal obligation on the part of the store to provide bag to carry items from the store for free. The remaining allegations were denied being false. Pleading that there is no deficiency in service on its part, a prayer for dismissal of the complaint was made by the store. The forum after hearing both the sides held that, “The argument put forward by the store is that the carry bags are chargeable at its store and the customers are free to decide to buy the carry bags or not. However, we are not impressed with this argument because the store has miserably failed to produce on record any cogent, convincing and reliable piece of evidence in the shape of any rules or instructions authorising it to levy additional charges for the carry bag from consumers. In this backdrop, charges of such things cannot be separately foisted upon consumers and the same would amount to unfair trade practice on their part.” The forum added that, “By employing unfair trade practice, the store is minting a lot of money from customers from all their stores situated across the country.” The forum then directed the store to refund Rs 10 charged for the carry bag and pay Rs 500 as compensation for harassment and Rs 1,100 as litigation cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elante-store-told-to-pay-rs-1610-for-charging-rs-10-for-carry-bag/articleshow/79499775.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 1, 2020||Trichy||Complaint against mill over dumping effluent||Trichy: A complaint has been lodged with Ganesh Nagar police in Pudukottai district against a rice mill on Monday after a five-year-old boy sustained burn injuries after he fell into the boiling waste dumped by the rice mill in an unsafe manner. The incident happened on last Sunday when the victim, identified as S Hirthik Roshan, 5, was playing near the rice mill. The boiling effluent dumped by the mill got accumulated outside the mill, and Hrithik slipped into it suffering burns on his legs up to thighs. He was rushed to Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. His father Sundararaj, 28, has lodged a police complaint against Dharamaraja Prabu, owner of Sri Urumanathar High Tech Modern Rice Mill. According to T Pushparaj, local ward councillor, similar incidents were reported in the past as well. While livestock too have fallen victim to the effluent, there has not been any preventive measures taken up by the rice mill. We are planning to stage a protest if the police failed to take action against the owner of the rice mill, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/complaint-against-mill-over-dumping-effluent/articleshow/79501161.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Fashion student in Tirupur gets crafty, beats lockdown blues||COIMBATORE: A few weeks into the lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 pandemic, S Nivetha, an 18-year-old student of NIFT – TEA College of Knitwear Fashion in Tirupur, was thinking of ways to escape boredom. She decided to turn the lockdown period to her advantage by experimenting with her skills. Nivetha took her own time to learn to make showpieces out of tissue paper. “I have always been interested in making decorative craft products like wall hangings and paintings. I had made flower vases out of tissue paper and started to make animals, birds and other showpieces out of it,” said Nivetha, who is pursuing IInd year BSc Apparel Fashion Designing. “First, I make the bone structure of animals or birds using a wire and then stuff it with crushed tissue paper and then cover it with fresh tissue paper. I paint the structure with water and glue, and let it dry for two to three days before giving it an acrylic coating,” she told TOI. “A few months after I started making the showpieces, a neighbour asked me whether I was willing to sell them. That’s when the hobby turned into a business. Since then, I have been making and selling based on orders.” “You don’t have to spend much on raw materials to make things out of tissue paper and the return is very high. It is an eco-friendly product. So, I started to teach government school students and homemakers for free during the evening hours. Some of the women are planning to take it up as a business,” Nivetha said. “I am planning to take the business to the next stage and has been receiving a lot of enquiries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fashion-student-gets-crafty-beats-lockdown-blues/articleshow/79499774.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 1, 2020||Bareilly||28 devotees on way to ‘Ganga snan’ hurt as tractor-trolley turns turtle||Bareilly: As many as 28 people were injured early Monday morning when their tractor-trolley turned turtle after it was hit by a truck trying to overtake it near Ubaria temple in Shahjahanpur’s Jalalabad area. Three of the injured were said to be in a critical condition. Forty residents of Eknora vilage were travelling in the trolley and heading for Dhai-Ghat for “Ganga snan” (holy dip) on the occasion of Kartik Purnima when the accident took place. The truck sped away after the accident. The injured were taken to the nearest community centre. Till filing of this report, 12 of the injured had been discharged from the community centre while 16 were referred to the district hospital in Shahjahanpur city. Dr Anurag Parashar, emergency medical officer at the district hospital, said, “The accident victims were brought in from Jalalabad at around 7.30 am. Most of them were women and children who had sustained head injuries. A few are critical. If needed, they will be referred to a higher centre.“ Ravi Kumar, SHO of Jalalabad police station, said, “We carried out the rescue operation immediately after the accident. We are in touch with hospital staff. We have registered an FIR in this case under relevant sections of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/28-devotees-on-way-to-ganga-snan-hurt-as-tractor-trolley-turns-turtle/articleshow/79495367.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vigilance ‘inspection’ based on a secret report, says Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Defending the vigilance “inspection” at nearly 40 branches of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd (KSFE), chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the action was based on a secret report. It was the vigilance director who ordered the inspection, he told a press briefing. “It was a routine action based on a secret report received by the intelligence wing of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB). It was not a raid but an inspection,” the CM said. The vigilance received complaints from Malappuram which, based on the agency’s evaluation, would affect the credibility and financial status of KSFE. The vigilance DySP reported this on October 19. On October 27 a source report, based on a preliminary inquiry, was sent to vigilance headquarters. After verifying this report on November 10, the vigilance director himself ordered the inspection at selected KSFE branches. This was carried out on November 27, Vijayan said. “This was an inspection and a report will be submitted to the government. The government will decide the future action based on this report,’’ he said. The CM said such inspections do not constitute extraordinary action. “Vigilance carried out 18 such inspections in 2019 and seven this year,’’ he said. The order was issued by the vigilance director, who has the authority to do so without any clearance. “My adviser had no role in this, as reported by the media. It has also been reported that he drafted the amendment to the Kerala Police Act. It is a blatant lie. The media is up to its old games,’’ said Vijayan, reprising allegations of the existence of a ‘media syndicate’ when he was party secretary. Raman Srivastava has no role in the day-to-day affairs of the police, vigilance, jail, fire and rescue or home department. No official of these wings reports to him nor takes orders from him. Pinarayi also rubbished reports that the vigilance action had strained his relations with the finance minister and the party. “The differences with Thomas Isaac and Anathalavattom Anandan are a media creation,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vigilance-inspection-based-on-a-secret-report-says-cm/articleshow/79498413.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Many schools yet to upload admission schedule in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Many schools in Chandigarh are yet to upload their admission schedule. Going by the common admission schedule issued by the UT education department, all schools will have to upload the admission schedule by December 2, Wednesday. They are required to upload the schedule on the website and display information like name of entry class, dates of admission, total number of seats, age requirement, fee structure, admission criteria, documents required and date of draw of lots on the school notice board by December 2. Schools have been asked to complete the admission process for the 2021-22 session through the online process, keeping Covid-19 SoPs in view. School like Bhavan Vidyalaya in Sector 33 and Delhi Public School (DPS) are yet to upload the admission schedule. Many schools have uploaded the details. These include St Kabir School, Sector 26, the four convent schools including St John’s High School in Sector 26, St Anne’s School in Sector 32, Sacred Heart School in Sector 26 and Carmel Convent School in Sector 9. Vivek High School has also uploaded the details and so has Tender Heart School. Strawberry Fields School in Sector 26 has also uploaded admission details. Chitkara International school in sector 25 has also uploaded the admission schedule. Issuance and receipt of admission forms will be done by all schools from December 3 to 16. The date to put up the list of eligible candidates will be January 15, 2021. Schools will have to display the list of eligible candidates on the notice board and their websites. Finalisation and selection of final and waiting list will be done by February 1, 2021 and the fee is to be deposited by students by February 12, 2021. Admission form will be free of cost and registration would only cost Rs 100. Schools in Panchkula and Mohali have started the admission process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/many-schools-yet-to-upload-admission-schedule/articleshow/79499778.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Rajini postpones the inevitable, again||Chennai: More than 24 years after making his first political statement that dealt a blow to the electoral prospects of the AIADMK in the 1996 assembly election, actor Rajinikanth has sought another 24 hours to end the suspense over his political entry. One of the Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) district secretaries, who took part in a meeting the actor convened on Monday, told reporters that Rajini would announce his decision “today or tomorrow.” A little later, Rajini told reporters in front of his Poes Garden residence: “The district secretaries have agreed to abide by whatever decision I take. I will announce my decision as soon as possible.” Several participants at the closed-door meeting at Raghavendra marriage hall told TOI that Rajini explained how his precarious health condition and the prevailing pandemic were the biggest impediments to his launching a political party. Finally, the 34 RMM functionaries authorized the actor to take a decision. “Avar arasiyal vazhkai khatham khatham (This is the end of his political life),” a senior RMM functionary told TOI, borrowing the words (katham katham) from Rajini’s 2002 movie ‘Baba’. The actor, sources said, held discussions with his family members also. An RMM functionary from Chennai said, “He (Rajinikanth) spoke at length about his health condition following the renal transplant he underwent and concerns about his vulnerable immunity and sought our views on what direction he should take.” “Rajini sir told us doctors had advised him that his immunity may be compromised even if he took a shot of the Covid vaccine,” said the functionary. Arriving at the meeting venue in Kodambakkam, the actor got out of his car before putting on a mask. In his opening remarks at the meeting that began at 10am, Rajinikanth explained his health condition in the wake of a renal transplant he had undergone in 2016. His doctors had advised him against making any public appearance and that he was taking 14 tablets a day. “He virtually asked us to choose between his health and politics,” said a source. “We told him that his health was foremost.” Some of the participants reeled out statistics on vote share obtained by the DMK and the AIADMK when they contested alone, to drive home the point that with groundswell of support from people, Rajinikanth’s party can achieve more. In response, the actor told them there was no point in getting a 10%-15% vote share. The party had to be sure about winning. “When a district secretary suggested that Rajinikanth could plan a strategy to campaign from his home without venturing out, the actor said if he entered the political field, he should be free to meet people in person,” a source said. “But this would put the people and me at risk,” he quoted the actor as saying. “Am I not answerable for the safety of the people?” Trending on social media, meanwhile, was #RajinikanthPoliticalEntry. “That look, that pose says a lot. Wait for a positive announcement from Thalaivar,” tweeted a fan. “Tamil Nadu needs you for a political change,” said another. “Whatever be the decision, we are with you,” said some others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-postpones-the-inevitable-again/articleshow/79499797.cms||Jaya Menon
December 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Order on bail plea of MLA’s ex-aide today||KOZHIKODE: The Hosdurg judicial first-class magistrate (JFM) court will pronounce the order on the bail application of Pradeep Kumar B, the former office secretary of MLA K B Ganesh Kumar, on Tuesday. Kumar was arrested by the Bekal police on November 24 for alleged threatening Vipin Lal, a key witness in the actor rape case, to change his statements. During the hearing on Monday, the prosecution opposed the bail plea saying that the accused was an influential person and he would try to influence the witnesses in the case if released on bail. The court asked why the police had not taken Kumar to Kollam for evidence collection as told to the court while opposing the bail plea earlier. The prosecution said that the accused has not cooperated with the interrogation while in police custody. The four-day police custody of Kumar had ended on Sunday following which he was remanded to judicial custody. Police have not been able to gather the crucial evidence, the SIM card and the phone which was suspectedly used by Kumar to call a relative of Lal on January 28. Police had found that the SIM was procured from Tirunelveli and had traced its tower location to Pathanapuram where the mobile number of Kumar could also be traced to during the time of the call. Police said that Kumar told during the interrogation that he had discarded the phone and the SIM card from a train. Meanwhile, the defence lawyer said that the case against Kumar was part of a conspiracy by top police officers and that the threatening letters claimed to have been received by Lal were forged. After hearing the arguments, the judge reserved the verdict for Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/order-on-bail-plea-of-mlas-ex-aide-today/articleshow/79498426.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Retired toothless BMC staffer denied bail in Pocso case||MUMBAI: A 73-year-old retired BMC employee’s defence that he was toothless, surviving on mashed food and thus could not have bitten a 10-year-old girl, has not helped him secure bail. The defence had even submitted his pictures. His bail plea was recently rejected by a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court as the child had abrasions on her lips, which were unexplained by the defence. “If the victim sees him again, after release on bail, there will be a serious impact on her psyche. Moreover, the possibility of influencing the informant (victim’s mother), victim and witnesses by the accused cannot be ruled out,” the court said. The accused was arrested on the morning of August 10. He had allegedly removed the child’s mask and bit her when she left home to go to a shop to buy chocolates and shampoo. The child went home and told her her parents. An FIR was registered and her statement recorded that day. A charge-sheet has been submitted in the case. He told court in his bail plea that he was law-abiding and had nothing to do with the offence. Citing employment with the civic body, he said he had a good reputation and good track record throughout his career. He submitted that he had health issues and was deaf. “The applicant is 73 and does not have a single tooth, so there is no question of biting the girl on her lips,” his advocate submitted. The accused said if released on bail he would not have anything to do with the child. The prosecution said the child had accused the man before police, a magistrate and a doctor. The court said the child had abrasions, which the doctor felt were possible with the impact of a blunt object. “The advocate has not explained or made submissions about abrasions on the victim’s lip,” the court said. It held that the child was medically examined soon after the alleged incident and the injuries support her statement. “At the most, the accused, being a senior citizen, his trial can be expedited if his advocate co-operates,” the court said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/retired-toothless-bmc-staffer-denied-bail-in-pocso-case/articleshow/79499229.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 1, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit to soon start cooking in earthenware pressure cookers||PILIBHIT: Residents of Pilibhit could soon start cooking in earthenware pressure cookers that assimilate traditional Indian cooking method in earthen pots with advanced technology. Under UP Mati Kala Board’s grant-in-aid scheme, 12 villagers have registered a society with UP Khadi and Village Industries Board (KVIB) to start manufacturing earthenware pressure cookers and other vessels. As per KVIB district manager A K Gangwar, with the allocation of Rs 10 lakh as first round of grant-in-aid, Pilibhit is the first of 18 districts in the state chosen as proposed destinations for such units. In the next phase, KVIB will manage training of entrepreneurs for the manufacture of earthenware “refrigerators” that cool and preserve food naturally without needing any power to run, said Gangwar. The Mati Kala Board was established in UP in July 2018 by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, with the prime objective of opening doors for the financial growth of artisans as well as promotion of clayware in the state through a series of exhibitions and special marketing support. To give momentum to this plan, the first clayware exhibition under the aegis of Mati Kala Board was organised in Lucknow between November 4 and 13, and had been attended by artisans of many districts with their products. “The initial project cost of the clayware unit, including the furnace, is Rs 12.50 lakh, of which the state government has provided Rs 10 lak as grant-in-aid. The remaining investment will be arranged by the promoter society — Matikala Audyogik Sahkari Samiti Limited,” said Gangwar. The unit will be set up in village Shahgarh, and within 3-4 days, will be allotted a significant portion of land on the banks of river Khannaut adjoining the village, to make clay for the unit available, he added. Society members have been sent to Khurja and Kannauj for expert training, while the entrepreneurs will be extended comprehensive technical assistance at the time of installation of the machines and furnace, said Gangwar. “The earthenware pressure cooker will imitate the same functions with similar parts and design as a metallic pressure cooker. The manufacturing unit will also make clay plates, glasses, spoons, tea cups and other types of pots,” Gangwar continued. “We’re expecting an overwhelming response from people for our products. Medical experts, especially Ayurveds, have begun to recognise the unbeatable benefits of clay pots for human health, as they naturally retain nutrients in foods and, being alkaline in nature, also reduce their acidic content,” he further said. In the near future, KVIB will open exclusive clayware showroom at the district headquarters to promote the sale of clay products. The entrepreneurs involved will also be provided some platforms to hone their sales pitch, like trade fairs and big exhibitions, such as Lucknow Mahotsav, said the KVIB district manager. Satyadev Prajapati, the president of Matikala Audyogik Sahkari Samiti Limited, said society members were on the lookout for additional financial resources to increase the size of their manufacturing unit, as the society has already succeeded in exploring markets for its products in many districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-to-soon-start-cooking-in-earthenware-pressure-cookers/articleshow/79495433.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Nine years on, Tamil Nadu lawyer, wife get double life for killing woman||COIMBATORE: This nine-year crime saga would confound any scriptwriter and it is still playing out. On Monday, an advocate and his wife were sentenced to double life terms for murdering a woman in Coimbatore in 2011. And it now appears they may have to stand trial for another murder, a year earlier. It all started on December 11, 2011, when M Ammasai, 45, walked into the Coimbatore office of advocate E T Rajavelu, 52, seeking legal remedy for a dispute with her husband. But Rajavelu, who was trying to save his wife, Manoharan Mohana, 47, in a Rs 12 crore cheating case filed by the Odisha police, had other plans for her. With the help of his driver P Palanisamy, he strangled Ammasai in his office and took the body to his newly rented house in a Coimbatore suburb, where he identified her as his wife to neighbours and said she had died of cardiac arrest. He managed to get a doctor to certify the death of Ammasai in Mohana’s name and cremated her at Athupalam electric crematorium. Soon, he obtained a death certificate from Coimbatore corporation. Ammasai’s family lodged a missing complaint but to no avail. Rajavelu’s and Mohana’s luck ran out in 2013, when they attempted to register a property in her name. Someone sent a tip to the registration department with a copy of Mohana’s death certificate. Immediately, Rajavelu approached a munsif court alleging that someone had obtained a death certificate of his wife by mistake. The court too granted reprieve and declared that the death certificate was issued erroneously.Even as the police started probing who the woman who died in 2011 was, the Coimbatore corporation lodged a police complaint sensing something was amiss. Police swiftly arrested Rajavelu’s driver P Palanisamy and accomplice Ponraj, who had signed as witnesses in the crematorium. “It was then that we got to know about the murder of Ammasai and how the couple faked the death,’’ said a police officer. Rajavelu and Mohana fled Coimbatore immediately, but were caught at Kovalam near Thiruvananthapuram on December 5, 2013. Palanisamy turned approver and the case appeared to progress. But vital documents pertaining to the murder case went missing from judicial magistrate-VII court. Notwithstanding the missing documents, special public prosecutor U Sankaranarayanan established the case of conspiracy and murder. But that’s not the end of the story. The owner of the 26 cents that Mohana wanted to register in her name in 2013, which eventually led to their arrest, has been missing since 2010. Now, police have found Rajavelu and Mohana had murdered him. Trial in that case is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/9-yrs-on-tn-lawyer-wife-get-double-life-for-killing-woman/articleshow/79499864.cms||A Subburaj
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thomas Isaac gives written reply on breach of privilege notice||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister TM Thomas Isaac, on Monday, called on speaker Sreeramakrishnan to explain his part after the opposition moved a breach of privilege notice against him for leaking the CAG report, which according to the minister questioned the constitutional validity of KIIFB The minister, who reached the official chamber of the speaker a little after 4pm, held discussions with the speaker for around an hour. It’s learnt that Isaac has handed over a written explanation, running into half a dozen pages, on the basis of which the speaker is expected to initiate further action on the breach of privilege notice moved by Congress MLA and public accounts committee chairman VD Satheesan. Isaac later told reporters that he has informed the speaker about his willingness to appear before the ethics and privilege committee in connection with the report leak. Isaac has been reiterating his stand that he was willing to face whatever action, which the speaker deemed fit, for speaking about the content of a CAG that according to rules should be first placed in the assembly. Isaac claimed that he was under the impression that CAG would seek government’s opinion before making adverse comments on such important matters. He stuck to his original claim that he mistook the final report for a draft and was aware about its finality only later on. “I’m ready to accept any punishment. I’m ready to explain my part before the privileges and ethics committee, provided the speaker chooses to do so,” he added. Following rumours and unconfirmed reports about the speaker being displeased over the way he took things into his hands with apparent disdain towards the privileges and stature of the house, Sreeramakrishnan had issued a press note, on Nov 26, summarily rejecting rumours. “Seeking explanation in such case is routine procedure and nothing more happened. Rumours don’t signify anything real,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/isaac-gives-written-reply-on-breach-of-privilege-notice/articleshow/79498447.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Litmus test for Uddhav Thackeray as MVA takes on BJP for 5 council seats||MUMBAI: Tuesday’s elections to five legislative council seats will be a litmus test for chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, as it will be for the first time after taking over reins, Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, will be contesting all seats against BJP. For the first time political parties have put up nominees too. Candidates used to contest on their own, without political banners. Results will be declared on December 3. State BJP president Chandrakant Patil (Pune graduate), Anil Sole (Nagpur graduate), Satish Chavan (Aurangabad graduate), Shrikant Deshpande (Amravati teachers’) and Datta Shinde (Pune teachers’) are outgoing council members. Patil has been elected to the legislative assembly from Kothrud (Pune). As per the understanding among MVA constituents, Congress and NCP will contest two seats each, while Sena will contest one seat. BJP is contesting all five. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had campaigned extensively for Nagpur candidate Sandeep Joshi, who is also mayor of Nagpur. In Nagpur, BJP had denied nomination to sitting legislator Anil Sole and nominated Joshi, a trusted aide of Fadnavis. Sole is considered close to Nagpur MP and Union minister Nitin Gadkari. Congress has fielded Abhijit Wanjari. In Amravati, legislator Shrikant Deshpande will be Sena’s nominee against BJP’s Nitin Dhande, while in Aurangabad (graduate constituency) NCP’s Satish Chavan will contest against BJP’s Shirish Boralkar. In Pune graduate constituency BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh will contest against NCP’s Arun Lad, while in teachers’ constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar (Congress) will contest against Jeetendra Pawar (BJP).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/litmus-test-for-uddhav-as-mva-takes-on-bjp-for-5-council-seats/articleshow/79499235.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||As patients get pandemic panic, organs for transplant end in bin||A viable kidney from a brain dead donor had to be discarded in early October because the recipient did not turn up at the hospital fearing Covid-19 infection. A team of doctors, led by Chennai-based senior transplant surgeon Dr Karthik Madivanan, who harvested the organ, said it was a healthy kidney and could have replaced the diseased organ in the patient. But when the recipient's family members said they would continue with dialysis instead of risking morbidity during a pandemic, the kidney ended up as medical waste.While Tamil Nadu received the best state award for the sixth consecutive year last week, surgeons and transplant counsellors said they faced several challenges during the pandemic year. A fall in the number of brain deaths, patients’ hesitance to visit hospitals and lack of adequate health staff led to a health crisis, they said.Initially, protocol during Covid also affected hospital working conditions. Since one-fourth of the staff had to be kept in reserve, we were working with a low number of doctors and nurses and so transplants were done only on priority, said senior urologist Dr Sunil Shroff, who heads MOHAN Foundation. Even though transplants came down, hospitals in the state worked like a bubble — the doctors involved in transplant surgery and care did not see Covid patients, he said, while stressing that fears of contracting Covid during a transplant need to be allayed."Kidneys, unlike other organs, have a shelf life of 24 hours if preserved properly. In spite of transplant coordinators having sufficient time to identify recipients there were times when vital organs were wasted. Some recipient families could not find ways to travel or stay during the course of the surgery, while many others were scared of being infected withCovid-19. They are willing to continue dialysis or medically manage the illness instead of going through the risk of morbidity due to the pandemic,"Dr Karthik said.Between March and October, when the Covid-19 infection was peaking, the state transplant authority, Transtan, recorded organ donations from 17 brain dead patients. In addition, Tamil Nadu received five more donations from other states. Last week, however, health minister C Vijayabaskar announced that organs were harvested from 27 brain dead people during the pandemic.According to Transtan data, at least 50% of the organs were either not retrieved or not used. But state authorities say it was only because the organs were not medically fit. "Doctors are doing their best as per standard protocol during the pandemic. Patients were taken up for transplants when there was no other option. In some cases, we did not use the organs because they were not viable," said Transtan member secretary Dr R Kanthimathy. Transtan records till October 28 show six kidneys were rejected because they had renal stones. Two livers were tagged fatty. Eight hearts had medical conditions such as LV dysfunction or coronary plaques and eight lungs had abnormal CT findings or poor lung function. But doctors in private hospitals say lack of awareness that transplant was safe during the pandemic led to many organ failure patients not turning up for regular checks. "We have more patients who died waiting for an organ compared to those who acquired the viral infection while in hospital waiting for transplant. It happened across the globe," said senior transplant surgeon Dr Mohamed Rela of Dr Rela’s Institute and Medical Centre. On the other hand, city hospitals airlifted patients with Covid-19 for intensive care and organ transplant during the pandemic. "Our city had the maximum number of patients on Ecmo, with 15 patients in our hospital at one point. The lifesaving equipment gave rest to the lungs and helped it heal. In some patients, it worked like a bridge to transplant. These transplants have been successful as well," said senior transplant surgeon Dr K R Balakrishnan of MGM Healthcare. The state has so far done six lung transplants to help Covid-19 patients recover. "Despite all odds our doctors are the most sought after," said health secretary J Radhakrishnan.The present crisis apart, for the past five years, the number of donations in the state has been steadily declining. From 185 donations in 2016, it came down to 127 in 2019. At least 90% of the organ donations were from victims of road accidents in Tamil Nadu. This year, with the lockdown, the number of vehicular accidents came down. "Obviously, donations were also low," said Dr Kanthimathy, while recognising the need for more awareness programmes to ensure more donors come forward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/as-patients-get-pandemic-panic-organs-for-transplant-end-in-bin/articleshow/79499851.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Gang tries to con 100 pregnant women in Bihar, Jharkhand with ‘govt offer’ of Rs 2,500||MUMBAI: Investigations into online bank cheating cases have found that arrested accused Gunilal Mandal’s gang had contacted over 100 women in Bihar and Jharkhand in the last one year about monetary facilities from government to pregnant women or those who delivered babies recently. The gang wanted bank accounts details of these women for fraud. But no woman provided details, city police, who interrogated Mandal in two cyber fraud cases, said. Mandal was arrested early this month from his village, Paniya (Bihar) while he was with a co-accused to target a gullible person. City police brought him here and his revelations shocked investigators. “The eight-member gang used at least 150 accounts to transfer money they would get by cheating people. The money would travel from accounts to make it difficult for police to trace, before it reached the gang’s accounts,” said an officer. Mandal was interrogated by inspector Rajan Bidkar, sub-inspector Pradip Patil and constable Suraj Dahigude. “We found a notebook with 100 phone numbers. Mandal said they had contacted them for account details. They lied that the government would give Rs2,500 to each woman but all told the gang not to call again or disconnected the line,” an officer said. Police seized 13 mobile phones from Mandal. They bought SIM cards for Rs500 each, in the name of other persons from West Bengal. The accused also used online money transfer app-activated SIM cards which they bought for Rs5,000 each. Police, from call data records of Mandal’s phone, found he had called up more than 100 people. When police asked them if they lost some money and wanted to complain, some said they did not want to lodge complaints. Others said they got their money back from banks and some were not interested in lodging FIRs. Mandal was booked in a second case of cheating where he had asked a Grant Road businessman to share an OTP to update phone banking and later transferred more than Rs 2 lakh from the victim’s account to different accounts. The victim quickly approached police and investigators blocked the accounts and saved Rs 1.4 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gang-tried-to-con-100-pregnant-women-on-govt-offer/articleshow/79499249.cms||Mateen Hafeez
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: VACB likely to issue report only after vetting by chief||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) is likely to furnish its report on the raids at branches of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd (KSFE) only after the return of bureau director K Sudesh Kumar. It is also reliably learnt that the government would initiate action against officials who gave the go-ahead for the raids after receiving the report of the director. Kumar, who is out of the state, has been asked to report back at the earliest. It is learnt that he would be back in his office on Thursday, even though he was originally granted leave till next Monday. The final report on the raids will be submitted to the government only after his arrival, sources said. IG (vigilance) H Venkitesh has been standing in for Kumar. It is learnt that the raids were conducted on the basis of an intelligence report on financial irregularities at KSFE that raised even doubts about the survival of the Kerala government-owned chit fund company. According to sources, the raid reports listed several irregularities, including diversion of investor money, benami transactions and other illegal transactions. It was on the basis of the intelligence report that instruction was sent to vigilance SPs to conduct simultaneous raids at selected branches on November 27. “This could have happened because of lack of coordination or because the agency failed to understand the implication of undertaking such a raid at this juncture. The search has given the public the impression that KSFE has a lot to hide,” a senior government official said. It is learnt that finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, who has come out openly against the raid, has sought action against vigilance officials who led the raids and those who leaked information to the media about the action -- codenamed ‘Operation Bachat’. When agencies like Enforcement Directorate are probing money laundering in connection with several government projects, the VACB action is as good as doing a favour to the ED, sources said. However, there is another view that vigilance officials should not be targeted for the search as they are not supposed to act based on the political climate. The last time the agency undertook a similar search was on October 8, when ‘Operation Stonewall’ targeted quarries across the state on the basis of information about irregularities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vacb-likely-to-issue-report-only-after-vetting-by-chief/articleshow/79498499.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Sans nod, NMC’s agency dismantles city bus stop to ‘favour’ builder||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) contractor looking after advertisements on city bus stops has dismantled a bus stop on the road connecting Pratap Nagar Square to Mate Chowk. This was done to favour a builder, according to shopkeepers in the area. NMC officials had not given permission to remove the bus stop. Three city bus stops were located on this road, one near Pratap Nagar Square and two near Durga Mata Mandir. The two bus stops near Durga Mata Mandir were situated opposite each other. Two shopkeepers from the area told TOI, “NMC removed the bus stop around 15 days ago. It was in good condition, just like the other opposite it. The bus stop removed was on the footpath in front of plot no. 98. There was a dilapidated building on the plot, which was demolished recently.” “A builder had purchased the plot along with another adjacent one. The bus stop was seen as obstructing sight of the proposed building. It is suspected that the bus stop was removed so that the builder can increase value of his proposed building,” said a shopkeeper. This bus stop was mostly used by people from Gopal Nagar, Pratap Nagar Square and Atrey Layout. After removing the bus stop, the debris has been left as it is. Now, commuters sit on the footpath to wait for city buses. Officials from NMC traffic department said they were unaware about removal of the bus stop, and assured to revert after taking details from the agency — Signpost India Pvt Limited. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B asked TOI to speak to officials of NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone. The zone officials too were unaware about it despite passage of over 15 days. As per contract, the agency had erected 158 bus stops across the city, though NMC whose owns them. The agency was supposed to earn from advertisements on bus stops for 10 years, which contract reportedly ends in March next year. An official from Signpost refuted the allegations that bus stop was removed to favour a builder. “NMC had also given us contract of renovating existing bus stops. The standee adjacent to the bus stop was rusted. Also, footpath was dug for laying power cables. Therefore, we removed entire set up. We will erect a new bus stop at the same spot within 45 days,” he said. The rules say, the agency has to make a new bus stop and replace old one immediately if required. This ensures no inconvenience to commuters, and also continuation of advertisement revenue for the agency. All three bus stops on the road were erected together around nine years ago, and the remaining two are untouched, and in satisfactory condition, apart from cleanliness. When the agency got the contract, corporators had alleged it erected bus stops in locations suitable for advertisement and not for city bus service. In an earlier case, TOI had reported a builder demanded removal of main drinking water pipeline in front of his plot. TOI had also reported big trees are being chopped to ensure visibility to advertisement hoardings. IN A NUTSHELL * NMC appointed agency to erect 158 city bus stops 9 years ago, earn from advertisements on them * Two bus stops were located on opposite sides of road at Durga Mata Mandir * Builder had purchased two plots behind one bus stop * Agency removed bus stop in front of plots 15 days ago * Local shopkeepers say this was to ensure visibility to new building on plots * NMC officials from traffic department and Laxmi Nagar zone unaware of this * Agency claims bus stop being replaced with new one * Norms say new one should be ready and put in place immediately||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sans-nod-nmcs-agency-dismantles-city-bus-stop-to-favour-builder/articleshow/79500239.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Late Diwali, less rain: Why air this November was more toxic than last year||NEW DELHI: The air pollution situation in the capital was worse this November than the same month last year, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows. The average air quality index (AQI) this year was 328 compared with 312 last November. Track the pollution level in your cityIn 2020, Delhi also recorded nine “severe” days in November as against seven in 2019, five in 2018 and seven in 2017. Experts said November was more polluted this year mostly due to meteorological conditions and Diwali. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The western disturbance that affected plains was seen only once in November this year while the count was three during the same month in 2019.” After Delhi’s overall AQI reached the “severe” category on November 14 and 15 this year on Diwali, the strong winds and rain under the influence of western disturbance helped in clearing pollutants. Last year, Diwali was celebrated on October 27. Among meteorological factors that affected the air quality of the national capital was dry November and calm winds. “November 2020 saw only one rainy day with very light rain of 0.6mm while two rainy days were recorded last year. Moderate-to-heavy rain help in settling down pollutants,” Srivastava said. “Besides, calm winds prevailed over Delhi in the nights in November this year, excluding one night, and it affected the dispersion of pollutants. However, the wind speed was better than November 2020 during most of the nights last year,” he added. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said, “Diwali falling in the middle of November, meteorological factors, dry winter and early beginning of stubble burning made this November more polluted than last year. The stubble burning, which began in September, continued till November.” She added that in 2019, the air quality deteriorated by late October and early November, but the condition was different this year as Diwali was celebrated on November 14. In terms of average AQI, November 2020 fared better than 2018 and 2017. The average AQI was 335 and 361 in 2018 and 2019, respectively, for November. However, at 15, the monitoring stations were less in 2017. The pollution level was even higher in October this year than that in 2019, according to CPCB data. Delhi averaged an AQI of 265 (poor) in October this year as compared to an average AQI of 234 last October. Experts said meteorological conditions had played a key role in October this year, too, aided by an increase in stubble burning counts as compared to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/late-diwali-less-rain-why-air-this-nov-was-more-toxic-than-last-year/articleshow/79499884.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Swapna Suresh’s appointment: Kerala govt bars PwC for 2 years||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has barred consultant major PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) from undertaking projects under IT department in state for the next two years. The agency was barred owing to its failure in ensuring due diligence in the deployment of resources. It was PwC that had engaged Swapna Suresh, the key accused in gold smuggling case, as an employee for Space Park project under Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL). A two-member committee consisting of chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh had found that Swapna was appointed on the reference of former principal secretary to the chief minister M Sivasankar. Later, it was also revealed that she had no educational qualifications for the post and her certificates were forged. “PwC did not perform a comprehensive background check, including educational qualifications, in the case of appointing an individual in PMU of Space Park. This is a serious breach of contractual obligations on the part of PwC,” said the government order barring the agency. KSITL had entered into agreement with PwC for a term of two years that ended on Monday. The government decided not to extend the contract with PwC for the project management unit of KFON project as the ongoing agreement has been completed. The chief secretary-led committee had found that though Swapna Suresh was appointed in Space Park through Visiontek, the human resources agency used by PwC, the failure on the part of PwC to ensure due diligence – with respect to the selection of the candidate – would mean that a punitive action has to be taken against PwC. Though KSITL had slapped a notice on PwC for this crucial omission, blacklisting this company by KSITL and IT department will be appropriate, the committee had recommended in July, when an enquiry was conducted against Sivasankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/swapnas-appointment-govt-bars-pwc-for-2-yrs/articleshow/79498521.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Man who recounted history of new verse in Tamil poetry||By AarvalanThe face of the new-verse movement was a frail looking writer who spoke through his strong characters. R S Krishnasamy, better known by his pseudonym Vallikannan, whose centenary is this year, stood for freedom in contemporary Tamil literature. He was for the language of expression that breaks away from conventional norms. The new verse movement had to encounter strong protests. The supporters invited derisive comments and questions were raised about its very life vis-à-vis conventional poetry. Giving a fair account of all of this, Vallikannan created a collection of essays, serialised in the magazine ‘Deepam’, capturing the birth and growth of new Tamil poetry in ‘Pudukavithaiyin Thottramum Valarchiyum’. It won him the Sahitya Akademi prize in 1978. It is a comprehensive historical account of the new-verse, detailing the debates around the subject. It also lists all the proponents of different kinds of verses thereby facilitating further research. One wonders whether such an exhaustive work exists for either the short-story, or the novel or conventional poetry in Tamil. Beyond his seminal essays, Vallikannan created a wide spectrum of works which include mystery, poetry, fantasy, translations, children’s writings, short stories and novels. He had a childhood filled with storytelling by elders at home. This created perhaps a desire in him to become a writer. He had embarked on many failed journeys to fulfil his aim of becoming a scribe before the age of 25. In this unending search to find a foothold he had worked with many non-commercial little magazines like ‘Thirumagal’, ‘Navasakthi’ and ‘Grama Ooziyan’ and ‘Cinema Ulagam’. His brief stints gave him perspective. He was praised by writer Jayakanthan as ‘Ezuththuth Thuravi’ (saint among writers), who stood for self-respect and self-esteem of the writing community and remained steadfast in his attempts to explore new vistas and thus create a paradigmatic shift in Tamil writing.The profound influence of Gorki, Tolstoy and Tamil-master Pudumaipithan on Vallikannan was apparent on his style of writing and choice of subjects for the stories. For instance, in his collection ‘Suthanthira Paravaigal’ (Poongodi Pathippagam, 1994), the story ‘Kaalavai’ revolves around a cement factory in Sivapuram, where the environment was destroyed and people were misled with the offer of employment. Politicians involved in the coming up of this factory team up with the owners for gain. The hapless villagers are left in the lurch. The story is a take on reality, on how development can undo a society in a gradual manner. Vallikannan passed away on November 9, 2006 when pneumonia consumed him. In an interview given in 1980 Vallikannan had said: "Life has been the book from which I learned. Experience has filled me with a philosophical base. And humanism and kindness together form my religion."(The writer is a music and literary enthusiast)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-recounted-history-of-new-verse-in-tamil-poetry/articleshow/79499901.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Put issuance of ration cards on fast track: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has directed the Aam Aadmi Party government to expedite applications for issuing ration cards, saying they cannot be kept pending for a long time as the cards are required to obtain subsidised food grains. Justice Navin Chawla issued the direction to the Delhi government on separate pleas by two women seeking issuance of ration cards to them for obtaining subsidised food grains. Times ViewRation cards serve as a multipurpose document for the deprived. It authenticates their identity and above all facilitates their access to food. It is the duty of every government to ensure that valid applications for the card are quickly dealt with.The move came after the court was informed by the petitioners that their applications for ration cards had been pending for over two years. Taking note of the submission, the court said: “The applications cannot be kept pending for such a long period. The applications of the petitioners have been pending for more than two years. For the above reasons, the delay in processing of the applications by respondents (Delhi government departments) cannot be countenanced.” It asked the state government to file a status report before December 23, the next date of hearing. During the hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal told the court that around 400applications have been processed in the area where the petitioners live, since the last date of hearing on October 19. The petitioners had earlier informed the court that according to the reply received to an application under the Right to Information Act, 2005, and data available on the National Food Security portal, the limit under the National Food Security Act, 2013, approved for Delhi is 72,77,995. Of this, only 72,22,236 applicants had been approved. The counsel for the petitioners, Tushar Sannu, told the court that there were a large number of applications, which were still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/put-issuance-of-ration-cards-on-fast-track-hc/articleshow/79500043.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||Haryana minister Anil Vij shown black flags in Ambala||AMBALA: Haryana home minister Anil Vij faced a protest outside Gurdwara Panjokhra Sahib in Ambala district on Monday when a group of people claiming to be locals showed him black flags and raised slogans of “Kisan ekta zindabad (long live farmer unity)”, reports JK Singh. Vij had visited the gurdwara to pay obeisance on Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary. As soon as Vij was about to leave, the protesters started raising slogans and waved black flags. A gurdwara official said, “Nothing happened inside the gurdwara premises and the minister left after paying obeisance...” The Panjokhra police SHO, Ramesh Kumar, said, “We are trying to identify the protesters. Action will be initiated after taking legal opinion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/haryana-minister-anil-vij-shown-black-flags-in-ambala/articleshow/79501585.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||11 Gujarat sailors asked to cough up Rs 57 lakh for release||RAJKOT: Families of 11 sailors from Gujarat, who are languishing in Iran jail since May, will have to cough up a massive nearly Rs 57 lakh to seek their release after a court in Iran convicted them for smuggling recently. The families have approached the ministry of external affairs after they were convicted on November 20. The court has said they will have to pay 25,000 dirhams per convict for the release. The sailors are natives of Kuch, Bhavnagar and Gir-Somnath districts and the sole breadwinners for their families. On May 11, their cargo ship MSV Al Irfan registered in Mandvi had set sail from Dubai to Karachi transporting electronic goods like TVs, refrigerators and electric shaving kits. The cargo was cleared by Dubai custom authority, according to the representation of the families submitted to the external affairs ministry. However, when they were sailing in the international waters near Oman, they were attacked by Iranian pirates and the local military guard intercepted their vessel, arresting all the crew members. The matter was heard by a local court in Tehran on July 20 and all 11 were found guilty of smuggling goods into Iran, based on an investigation report submitted by the local authorities. The family members of these crew members in a representation to the external affairs ministry stated that “The GPS location of the ship at the point of interception confirms that the ship was intercepted in international waters.” They were first taken to Qeshm Island near Tehran and shifted to Bandar Abbas on November 22. Of the 11, eight are from Kutch. These include five brothers including the ship captain Salim Shiru who live in Mandvi and Mota Salaya. The arrested sailors are Alimamad Sumara (55), Salim Shiru (38), Hashan Sap (38), all from Mota Salaya village in Kutch; Jasvant Bhaliya (35), Bharat Dhapa (48) and Vina Bhambhaniya (32) from Bhavnagar, Rizwan Shiru (25), Firoz Shiru (33) and Arbaz Shiru (22) from Mandvi; Sirahusseinj Ismalisha (48) from Una and Mamad Luhar (48) Moti Rayan, Kutch Salim’s brother, Imran, said, “I have represented everyone, from Kutch MP to external affairs ministry, and sent letters to district collector and superintendent of police to get state government help. We are very poor and can’t pay the release amount. Four out of the five brothers are married with children and it’s becoming increasingly difficult to run the families.” The Kutch Vahanvati Association also represented the external affairs ministry about the ordeal of these seafarers and requested its intervention. Kutch BJP MP, Vinod Chavda, said “I wrote to the Indian embassy in Tehran and the consulate officers even met them in jail. They are following up the matter with Iranian authorities for their early release.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-gujarat-sailors-asked-to-cough-up-rs-57l-for-release/articleshow/79497439.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||IIT-Kharagpur to launch online placement process today||KOLKATA: To beat the challenges posed by the Covid crisis, which is hampering recruitment process, the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT-Kgp), has decided to take the final placements starting from December 1, online. This will be the first time a the premier technology institute in Bengal has disallowed students from visiting the campus to take part in the recruitment process. Instead, they have been asked to participate from their present location. The decision to offer opportunities for remote hiring and attract a major number of industries have been made, keeping in mind the possibilities that several companies are preferring to avoid face-to-face interaction and also giving the best possible opportunity for the students amidst the pandemic situation. “As per tradition this year, too, IIT Kharagpur, will kick start its placement process in the early hours of Tuesday through online mode,” said the chairman of the Career Development Centre, A Rajakumar. He added: “This year 1,300 students from the undergraduate programs will be participating and will be available from their respective locations across India to help the companies to complete their hiring needs.” Rajakumar assured the number of companies participating this year in the recruitment is on par with last year’s figure and there is no such major drop out in big names. “All types of organizations across sectors like software, analytics, consulting, core engineering companies, banking, and finance will be the major takers of this year as well,” the CDC head said. However, there might be some nominal reduction in the number of hires at this time, he predicted. Adding, “IIT-Kgp has an enriched pool of talented students, we wish to offer a good hiring experience to all our recruiting partners.” Among the other must-haves, students have been told to keep their resumes ready, which will have to be placed before the recruitment teams. “We shall coordinate and monitor the process from the campus,” said Rajakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-kgp-to-launch-online-placement-process-today/articleshow/79499947.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: M Sivasankar used three mobile phones, says Customs||KOCHI: Customs team probing the gold smuggling case, on Monday, submitted before the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court that former principal secretary to chief minister, M Sivasankar, who is also an accused in the case, used three mobile phones though he had given a declaration of having used only one. Citing this fresh evidence, customs sought an extension of his custody for seven more days. The court will consider the petition on Tuesday and remanded Sivasankar into judicial custody for one more day. The court will hear the bail application of Sivasankar on Tuesday. On Monday, customs produced him in court after his custody period ended. Customs petition said that Sivasankar during his interrogation had earlier declared to all agencies that he was using only a mobile phone. Customs submitted that the investigation revealed that he was using two more phones. “Of the two phones, one has been identified and retrieved by the investigating team on Nov 29 and the same is being analysed. Efforts are in progress to identify and second mobile phone. The continued custody of Sivasankar is necessary to locate the second device and also corroborate the evidence that may be recovered from both the devices,” said the customs petition. Customs also said that further custody of Sivasankar is essential to confront him with the statements given by Swapna Suresh, another accused, on Nov 27. However, Sivasankar’s counsel objected the custody extension claiming that Sivasankar was in the custody for three more days after Customs took Swapna’s statement and there was no mention about Swapna’s statement during interrogation. There is no point in extending custody on the same ground as customs could have confronted Sivasankar with the statements of Swapna, the counsel said. Sivasankar’s counsel also refuted customs’ claims about two more mobile phones used by Sivasankar. The counsel said that the second mobile phone recovered by Customs was a tablet computer having a mobile SIM card which Sivasankar never used. The counsel submitted Sivasankar already declared about the tablet and there is no third-phone as claimed by customs. Meanwhile, the court extended customs custody of Swapna and Sarith PS in the case related to the smuggling of $1.9 lakh by former finance head of UAE Consulate Khalid till 2pm on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-used-three-mobile-phones-customs/articleshow/79498549.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools extend fee payment deadline||KOLKATA: Some schools have decided to provide relief to parents by pushing back the deadline to pay fees by a month. These schools are about to announce on their websites that parents can breathe easy and pay by December 31. An interlocutary application has been filed in the Supreme Court by petitioner Vineet Ruia, requesting for an extension of the deadline. However, some city schools chose to push back the deadline on their own, even before any further court directions. The official deadline for fee payment was Monday, but since it was a public holiday, many schools had announced a day’s extension earlier. Birla High School for Boys, Sushila Birla Girls School and Shri Shikshayatan group of schools are among those who are announcing the extension of the deadline to December 31. The Loreto Education Board is about to take a call on Tuesday. “We don’t want to coerce parents and we appeal to them to pay by the extended deadline. This extension also means that they can breathe easy now and don’t have to worry about kids’ names getting struck off rolls,” Brigadier VN Chaturvedi, spokesperson of Birla High Boys and Sushila Birla Girls schools, said. In their announcement of extension, the two schools are making it very clear that no late fee will be charged from parents for any quarter. Shri Shikshayatan group of schools is also about to make a similar announcement. Earlier, their notice board had announced an extension by a day, till Tuesday. However, it was decided on Monday by the school management that a further extension would be given to parents and a fresh notice would be put up, said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson of the group of schools. A meeting has been scheduled on Tuesday by the Loreto Education Board that runs six Loreto schools in the city. Loreto House is the only one among these where no deadline for fees has been mentioned along with the waiver announcement. A final call on the extension will be taken and announced on Tuesday for the rest of the Loreto schools too. Heritage School has not announced its waived structure on the website and has not taken any fees since September. Its administration has remained silent on fees since the high court order on fees came in on October 13. “We are awaiting further clarity on the issue of fees. We are sure the courts will give us this clarity soon and only thereafter we will start charging fees. We are incurring huge losses because we have not collected any fees after September, but we feel it is better to seek clarity first,” said a senior spokesperson of the school. The application for extension that the petitioner has filed is likely to be heard in a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-extend-fee-payment-deadline/articleshow/79498519.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sales surge 40% riding Black Friday wave; traders eye better Christmas business||KOLKATA: The leading city malls witnessed a 100% jump in footfall and almost 30%-40% higher sales in Black Friday weekend, which concluded on Sunda y. To manage the crowd and stem the spread of coronavirus, the malls and stores had put in place various safety norms for the buyers. However, the spike in business has left the traders hopeful and they look forward to a better sale during Christmas and New Year celebrations. The bigger brands in garments and lifestyle segments came up with 30% to 50% off on their products and clocked 30% to 50% uptick in sales this time. K Vijayan, general manager of Acropolis Mall, said: “Various national and international brands in our mall had announced promotional offers ranging from 30% to 50% discounts on their products. Almost all the brands logged a double digit growth in sales.” While Puma registered around 53% rise in Black Friday sales Nyaka clocked 40% growth. “Marks and Spencer saw a decent uptick of around 22% while Shopper Stop registered an impressive 44% growth during the Black Friday offer. Overall, Acropolis mall has registered a 44% increase in sales during this three day long Black friday promotion,” added said Vijayan. Sanjiv Mehra, VP of Quest Mall pointed out that response is very encouraging. “The footfall almost doubled during this weekend and the sales was almost 90% of the same period last year,” he added. The director of Great Eastern Appliances, Pulkit Baid said that the response is quiet encouraging. Yashovardhan Gupta, MD of Torero Corporation, said: “We had a fantastic Black Friday sale. It was a welcome relief after eight months of depression.”  “The business picked up during the Black Friday sale and we have exceeded last year’s sales figure. This indicates customers may come in again for Christmas and New Year celebrations,” said Shyamala Ramanan, business head of Mia by Tanishq.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sales-surge-40-riding-black-friday-wave-traders-eye-better-christmas-biz/articleshow/79499977.cms||Sarthak Ganguly
December 1, 2020||Bareilly||Mentally challenged minor girl raped by family friend||PILIBHIT: A 13-year-old mentally challenged girl was allegedly raped by a 30-year-old man in a village under Sungarhi police station. The accused, a family friend, took her away from home on the pretext of buying toffees and raped her, said police. The crime was committed on November 27, but the girl’s family avoided lodging a complaint, fearing loss of family reputation, said police. Finally, an FIR was registered in this connection following a written complaint lodged by the girl’s family on Sunday evening and the girl was sent for a medical examination to the district government women hospital. SHO Atar Singh said the accused was booked under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mentally-challenged-minor-girl-raped-by-family-friend/articleshow/79495457.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 1, 2020||India||BSY’s secretary: No suicide bid, took pills by mistake||BENGALURU: Soon after being discharged from hospital on Monday, R Santosh, political secretary to Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, denied that he had tried to kill himself. “The attempted suicide theory is nothing but speculation. I was unwell due to indigestion after attending a feast and ended up wrongly consuming some other tablets. My wife panicked and shifted me to a hospital,” said the 31-year-old. On state Congress president D K Shivakumar’s claims that a video could have been the trigger for the alleged suicide attempt and that a probe was needed, Santosh said, “He appears to have lost his mental balance after the defeats in the recent bypolls. They are also the outcome of recent raids on him by the central agencies.” His claims came even as an FIR was registered against him. “The MLC notice mentioned that he had consumed 12 sleeping pills. Prima facie, it looks like Santosh, for some reason, attempted suicide. We are registering a suo motu case against Santosh under IPC Section 309 and have initiated legal action,” the FIR read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsys-secretary-no-suicide-bid-took-pills-by-mistake/articleshow/79501599.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-Presi history prof passes away||Kolkata: Known as Uttara-di to generations of students, one of the city’s most endeared historians, Uttara Chakraborty, is no more. She was 76 and breathed her last on Sunday. Chakraborty had been suffering from kidney-related ailments for some time and died of cardiac arrest at her Salt Lake residence. She is survived by her husband, historian Subhas Ranjan Chakraborty and two sons. Uttara got cured of Covid and had returned home after testing negative. She was an alumnus of St John’s Diocesan School, Presidency College and Calcutta University. She taught in Loreto College, Darjeeling Maulana Azad College, Bethune College and Presidency College. Her forte remained medieval history — both Indian and European, 19th century Bengal Derozians and Renaissance. She shot to fame when the state archeology department started digging underneath Bethune College in an effort to date back the history of Kolkata beyond the accepted period. Uttara insisted that the findings could lead one to a never-known side of the city. Her papers on the pre-colonial history of Kolkata that she presented at the Itihaas Samsad and Indian History Congress, are part of the historians’ rhetoric in the city. The Ashin Dasgupta Memorial Lecture collection published by the Itihas Samsad, was also co-edited by her. She is remembered fondly by fellow historians Ramkrishna Chatterjee and Arun Bandyopadhyay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-presi-history-prof-passes-away/articleshow/79500007.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Not height, but their hearts match||RAJKOT: Their wedding was simple and frugal. Yet, when Shanta Makwana tied the nuptial knot with Ramesh Dangar their marriage solemnised through a community function became talk of the town in Junagadh on Monday. For visually disabled Makwana is 5.5 feet tall while Dangar is just 2.5 feet. But for the duo who have an age gap of seven years, it is a match made in heaven. “I am happy with this marriage. I am blind by birth. My husband’s height might be less, but his heart is big. He is a good person. We are from the same community and he is earning good,” said Makwana, 29, who like her husband wants to become a teacher. “I also want to become a teacher after completing my education,” said Makwana, a native of Rajesar village of Junagadh’s Mendarda taluka, who is pursuing her B Ed despite being blind by birth. “I will do everything to follow my wife’s dream and I am happy that she is going to join my profession soon,” said 38-year-old Dangar, a native of Butavadar village of Junagadh’s Jamjodhpur taluka, who is currently serving as a primary school teacher. “They both are qualified, but they were struggling to find a life partner. It is an arranged marriage. Both belong to the same community and heads of both the families have finalized the marriage,” said groom’s brother Ram Dangar. The marriage function was organised by Satyam Seva Mandal, the trust that usually organises mass marriages but has limited its role to organising individual marriages in Covid-19 era. “We organize mass marriages every year. We have to find a suitable match for visually challenged girls of our hostel. We are happy that one of our daughters have found her suitable match,” said trustee and advocate K P Pandya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/not-height-but-their-hearts-match/articleshow/79497463.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 1, 2020||Bareilly||Woman harassed sexually, ousted from home for dowry||PILIBHIT: The husband of a 23-year-old woman and five more of her in-laws’ family, including two women, were booked for allegedly sexually assaulting, torturing and ousting her from her husband’s house for dowry. In a complaint lodged at Pilibhit kotwali on Sunday evening, the woman stated that after her marriage on November 24, 2019, with a resident of a village under Nawabganj police station in Bareilly district, her husband and his family members started torturing her demanding Rs 2 lakh and a Maruti Wagon R car. Her elder brother-in-law sexually harassed her and made a bid to rape her, she alleged. “I narrated my ordeal to my husband, but to no avail. Rather, my in-laws turned more atrocious. They badly abused me and threatened to kill me,” she alleged. “I was ousted from my husband’s house on May 4. Thereafter, my father made all possible effort, even through mediation by relatives, to resolve the matter, but failed,” alleged the woman. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the husband, his elder brother, parents and two other family members were booked under sections 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives), 354 (criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of The Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-harassed-sexually-ousted-from-home-for-dowry/articleshow/79495481.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Online classes set to start for new UG batch||KOLKATA: Online classes for first-year students in under-graduate courses will start soon, several principals said on Monday, a day after the education department ruled out resumption of on-campus classes anytime soon. While many colleges have already commenced online classes, other colleges are planning to start virtual teaching within the next two weeks to prevent any more delay in completing the syllabus. The education department had in the beginning of November hinted at plans to reopen colleges by December 1, instructing authorities to sanitize the campuses and devise plans to implement social distancing. But on Sunday, the department made it clear that it was not safe to reopen colleges due to the pandemic and colleges should take the virtual route to take classes. Normally, classes for the first semester start in July and exams are held in December but this year, the entire schedule went topsy turvy with admissions starting in August due to the pandemic. At Loreto College, online classes for the incoming batch will start this week. The students have been informed about the routine and timing of classes. “Virtual teaching is the only option now. The objective is to at least start the process of teaching because it is a new batch and the students will take time to get accustomed. To start in-person classes, we will wait for the order of the government and the university,” said an official of the college. Authorities at Basanti Devi College informed the students on Monday about online classes. “We have issued the noticed today and informed the students that online classes will start from December 16,” said Indrila Guha, principal of Basanti Devi College. Officials of Bethune College said they were yet to decide the date to start online classes. At JD Birla Institute, affiliated to Jadavpur University, classes for all the courses started in the last week of September using an app for online meetings and teaching. Weekly time table for various courses was made available on the college website. “Online classes started on September 21 and are continuing smoothly. Before the classes started there was an orientation programme to acquaint the students with the facilities and requirements and to introduce them to their teachers and peers,” said Deepali Singhee, principal of JD Birla Institute. Authorities at Maulana Azad College said plans to start online classes were under way on Monday. “We will be announcing the date very soon,” said principal Subhasis Dutta. Some principals expressed concerns over the delay in commencing classes for the first semester. “There is already a lag of one semester. Normally, we wrap up exams of the first semester by the middle of December. But this time, the students have not even started their classes,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/online-classes-set-to-start-for-new-ug-batch/articleshow/79498532.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Rajnath Singh inspects infra projects, meets villagers||LUCKNOW: Squeezing out time from his pressing engagements in Delhi amid the brewing crisis of farmers’ agitation, defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived in Lucknow on a day-long visit to review development work in his parliamentary constituency and interact with the people. The Lucknow MP is leading the ministers’ group to resolve the issues of the agitating farmers. Maintaining balance between his duties of defence minister and looking after the people of his constituency and infrastructure development as Lucknow MP, Rajnath spent a day in the city on Monday. Visiting the state capital after a long time, Rajnath left aside his security paraphernalia and strayed into a crowd of villagers along Kisan Path to enquire about their well-being. “Koi dikkat hai, ya koi pareshani,” Singh asked the farmers while mingling among them. When he asked the farmers if they were happy with the construction of Kisan Path, they responded in the affirmative and said the price of their land has already zoomed and it has become easy for them to transport their farm produce to the state capital. The cavalcade of Rajnath Singh and Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh next halted near Tedhi Pulia where he inspected the construction of flyover. Interacting with locals, he said the flyover would resolve the perpetual problem of traffic congestion on the busy stretch. In the past six years as MP, Rajnath has gifted developmental projects worth Rs 24,500 crore, including a network of flyovers to ensure vehicular movement and rid the city of traffic jams. Even during the lockdown, Rajnath kept in touch with his representatives and staff and ensured delivery of meals and essentials to the poor and needy and constant monitoring of the functioning of state agencies deployed for assisting people besides ensuring proper medical facilities for Covid treatment.  “Rajnath Singh is an institution in himself. He has had a blemishless and impeccable political journey, is known for his integrity and dedication and even Opposition leaders look up to him,” said UP assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajnath-inspects-infra-projects-meets-villagers/articleshow/79500726.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Seven-day window to reopen admission portals; college heads divided in opinion||KOLKATA: Colleges with a high number of vacant seats can reopen their admission portals for seven days, but must wrap up the process by December 15 and start online classes by December 16, according to Calcutta University officials. The government’s decision to reopen admission portals for undergraduate courses to fill up vacancies in colleges has received mixed responses from principals. While some principals felt that inviting fresh applications won’t make much of a difference to the overall tally of admissions, others said that even if some seats were filled up, it would reach a respectable figure. The admissions to undergraduate courses started in the second week of August and was extended till the end of October after many colleges struggled to fill up seats despite seeking fresh applications multiple times. At present, many colleges have not been able to fill up almost 50% of the seats. According to principals, due to the high scores in the board examinations, many candidates took admission in multiple courses in multiple colleges, blocking seats for others. Once they gave up unwanted seats, it resulted in a huge number of vacancies. “Several colleges still have a large number of vacancies in several undergraduate courses as many students took admission in multiple colleges. Reopening the admission portals will give them another opportunity to fill up as many seats as possible. Many students who haven’t got admission anywhere can enrol themselves in a college of their choice,” said Tapan Kumar Das, president of the Calcutta University chapter of All Bengal Principal’s Council and head of Vivekananda College. Even colleges that have not reported a large number of vacancies ever, like Lady Brabourne College and Bethune, have been left with almost 20% empty seats. “It is going to help the colleges fill up the seats and students, too, will get another opportunity,” said Indrila Guha, principal of Basanti Devi College. But not all principals are convinced with the idea of fresh applications. “In the first phase, the admission process continued for over 10 weeks, but still some colleges have been left with a large number of vacant seats. Reopening the portals will not make much of a difference to the overall tally. Some students will shift from one college to another, which will only add to the headache of the authorities who will have to collect a declaration and seek documents for registration,” said the principal of a south Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seven-day-window-to-reopen-admission-portals-college-heads-divided-in-opinion/articleshow/79498525.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 1, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM looking to solve raid row without hurting KSFE||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The CPM state leadership has reached an understanding not to further aggravate the controversy surrounding the vigilance raid of KSFE. It is learnt that senior leaders, who held informal discussions over phone, decided to put an end to the controversy with a detailed statement of the chief minister, explaining the circumstances that led to the action. On Monday evening, Pinarayi Vijayan described the raid as a routine exercise by the Vigilance & Anti-Corruption Bureau. While defending the bureau, which is under his jurisdiction, CM has also been cautious not to disown critics in his party, including finance minister T M Thomas Isaac. According to sources, the CM’s office was informed in advance about the raid and neither CM nor CMO officials red-flagged it. Officials considered the action to be on the lines of previous routine raids, including on police stations and border check posts. “The raid was planned much ahead of the notification of local-body polls and even before the ED investigation into government projects. It was only natural the raid would have been perceived as normal then,” a source said. As the controversy over the raid raged, the CM conveyed the full picture to senior leaders, including Isaac. Sources said Vijayan assured them of amicably settling the issue as the raid, prima facie, hadn’t identified any major irregularity. Isaac, who minced no words in attacking the vigilance on Saturday and Sunday, told reporters on Monday he wouldn’t want to prolong the controversy. However, the clarification made by Vijayan has put Isaac on the defensive as he would now have to explain the logic behind saying the raid could only have been ordered by someone with ‘poor mental acuity’. With CM making it clear that the raid followed all protocols and even hinted at initial reports suggesting all is not well with KSFE, Isaac will now have to put the house in order first before criticizing vigilance. On Monday, KSFE conducted an internal audit at all 36 branches which were raided by vigilance. As per initial reports, no major anomalies were unearthed in the action. The episode has also triggered a debate within CPM over the functioning of home department under the CM. Despite several controversies, such as Maoist encounter killings, UAPA arrest of college students, proposal to create metropolitan police commissionerates in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, the CPM and the LDF hadn’t debated them as Vijayan wouldn’t welcome their critical examination. With the experience from the amendment to the Kerala Police Act and the raids that followed, CPM will now put in place a more stringent surveillance on the functioning of police and vigilance. A section of leaders also found fault with police adviser Raman Srivastava whose involvement in the commissionerate and police act amendment incidents was clear. The full meeting of CPM state secretariat, scheduled to be held after local-body elections, will be discussing these issues, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-looking-to-solve-raid-row-without-hurting-ksfe/articleshow/79498603.cms||B Sreejan
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||In Covid yr, devotees serve from home on Gurpurab||KOLKATA: Hundreds of members of the Sikh and Sindhi communities decided to stay home and celebrate virtually, instead of visiting gurdwaras and temples on Gurpurab, the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, on Monday. However, most sent in donations in cash or kind to the gurdwaras to be spent among the needy this Covid year. The two communities said that this has been a year of realisation and penance and it is only by giving can this penance be done. The gurdwaras arranged for day-long distribution of food, clothes and blankets among the poor. Some participated in langars set up by the gurdwaras to cook and serve. Members of the Sikh community missed the Maidan gathering that they have been organizing on Gurpurab every year. “Instead of gathering in one place, we have cooked and taken the food to the hungry this time,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, spokesperson of the Behala Gurdwara. Also the chief of the IHA Foundation, he arranged for a langar on wheels that collected food from the gurdwaras to city streets. Similar langars were organised by the gurdwaras of Sant Kutiya at Bhowanipore, Rashbehari Gurdwara and Barrackpore Gurdwara on Monday. The lone Sindhi Temple of the city, Amrit Vela, organised community feeding on Sudder Street on Sunday. “We have received donations to be spent among the poor. Normally we have a big event at Ramlila grounds near Entally, but this year we couldn’t do that,” said Nanik Samtani, spokesperson of the community. “It’s not the same as being inside a gurdwara and sitting down with the community to pray, but in these trying times, this is the best that we can expect to do,” said businessman Dashmeshbir Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-covid-yr-devotees-serve-from-home-on-gurpurab/articleshow/79500041.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 1, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: No raid, ED only sought some details, says ULCCS chairman||KOZHIKODE: Enforcement directorate (ED) conducted a ‘search’ at the office of Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) in Vadakara on Monday. It is learnt that the ‘search’ was conducted prior to the interrogation of the chief minister’s additional private secretary CM Raveendran, who was summoned by the agency. ED officials spent around 150 minutes at the office. At the same time, ULCCS clarified that the news that appeared in a section of the media – that there was an ED raid at its office –was baseless. In a release issued here, ULCCS chairman Rameshan Paleri said it is true that two officials came to the office and only one officer from Kozhikode entered the office. “He enquired whether a person – against whom the agency has undertaken a probe – has any connection with ULCCS. We answered in the negative and officer was satisfied. Moreover, he wanted to see the income tax statement of the society and was convinced after the examination,” Rameshan said. “This being the truth, propagating that there was a raid at ULCCS will only defame a firm that is giving livelihood to more than 13,000 employees and their families,” the statement said. Rameshan asked the media not to cast aspersion on the society, which is strictly following all the laws. ED had earlier conducted searches in six commercial establishments in Vadakara which is also suspected to be connected to Raveendran. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran alleged that ULCCS is a means for CPM leaders to turn their black money into white. Addressing a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram, he said that if a proper investigation is done, more startling stories of corruption will come out. “CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s role in the corruption is becoming increasingly evident. ULCCS is a firm which is close to the chief minister. There are corruptions in the contracts undertaken by the society,” he claimed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-raid-ed-only-sought-some-details-says-ulccs-chairman/articleshow/79498619.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP government rolls plan for Ram Katha Park project in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW: Even as the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya picks pace, the state government has rolled out the plan for expansion of Ram Katha Park in the temple town. The government has decided to release Rs 55 lakh for the project, situated on the banks of Saryu near Naya Ghat. The site also hosts Ramayan Mela and other cultural programmes which are organised ahead of Diwali. The renovation would include presentation of Ram Katha virtually through multi-media technology. Official sources said the state government has already chosen PAN electromedia company which has constructed Sikh museum in Amritsar and Birsa Munda museum in Jharkhand. Principal secretary, tourism, Mukesh Meshram told TOI the modalities of the project were being finalised. “Under the project, the entire ‘Ram Katha’ would be depicted through light and sound giving visitors a unique experience,” he said. “It is an ambitious project which is being expedited by the state government,” he said. Having a total allocation of Rs 2.75 crore, the project had earlier received a budgetary push of over Rs 1.1 crore in June 2019 to carry out renovation of the project. According to a government order issued by tourism department, the fund released for the project will be used as per rules laid down by the finance department in April 2020. It said the funds would be used specifically for the said project and would not be diverted for any other purpose. The department said the quality of work would be of high standards and director general (tourism) would monitor the project. It would be mandatory for the department to inform the accountant general as well as the state government about the funds. As per the arrangement, the construction agency would seek more funds after spending 80% of existing money. Tourism department would be responsible for ensuring that expenditure is done as per rules laid down by finance department. The department has also been asked to control cost overrun of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-rolls-plan-for-ram-katha-park-project-in-ayodhya/articleshow/79500733.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Poor garbage collection service causing sanitation woes in Vijaypur||DEHRADUN: Even as the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) is working to keep the city clean before the upcoming Swachh Sarvekshan, the residents of Ward Number 1, Vijaypur, are grappling with irregular door-to-door garbage collection by the civic body. As a consequence, some residents of the area are incinerating their household waste to do away with garbage, leading to air pollution in the area. The residents of Johri village, Naya Gaon, and Gucchi Pani — all under Ward Number 1 — say that officials are not taking cognisance of the issue despite residents highlighting the menace on chief minister’s portal. SP Sharma, resident of a private building in Johri village, said, “Besides poor condition of internal roads in the area, waste collection from households is a major challenge. The sanitation staff cleans the area but household waste is not picked up for days. Some locals often burn their household waste, a practice that adds to air pollution.” Another area local Sukh Bahadur Gurung said, “A dedicated space was allotted near the tourist spot for dumping the garbage generated from the arrival of tourists. However, residents have also begun to dump their household waste at the spot as the door-to-door garbage collection service is irregular.” Locals also say that the poor garbage collection service is harming the reserved forest area. “The ward also has a reserved forest area which is becoming polluted due to poor sanitation services. People have developed the habit of throwing garbage inside the barricades of the forest area which needs to stop at the earliest,” said Chandra Pal Singh, a local. Meanwhile, Sager Lama, ward councillor, said, “We have been allotted 10 sanitation workers for the ward who clean the area regularly but the garbage collection by DMC vehicles has been irregular. I have complained to the relevant authorities. Hopefully, the vehicles will start coming regularly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/poor-garbage-collection-service-causing-sanitation-woes-in-vijaypur/articleshow/79497487.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Three men stage road rage event to rob Fortuner in Vasant Kunj||NEW DELHI: The driver of a businessman was kidnapped and robbed by three men who pretended to be angry at their car being brushed by the former in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj on Friday evening. The driver, in the Fortuner car, was taken to Haryana at gunpoint where he was dumped with some money to return home and the trio fled with the vehicle and his belongings. According to police, a woman called around 8.30pm to inform that she had seen three-four men threatening a man driving a Fortuner car with a pistol. She had also noted down the number of the suspects’ car. A police team reached the spot and recorded her statement. The following morning, Subhash, the businessman, reached the police station along with his driver Dinesh and filed a complaint. Dinesh, who has been working with the businessman since 2007 and lives in Chhatarpur, said that while he was on his way to receive his employer’s guests from the Delhi airport, a Brezza car intercepted his vehicle at Aruna Asif Ali Marg near Vasant Kunj. Three men stepped out of it and picked a fight with him, claiming that he had brushed past their vehicle. A police officer said when Dinesh tried to call for help, one of them whipped out a pistol and asked him to move to the back seat of his car. “He said they had driven his car towards Mahipalpur, Samlkha and reached Panipat via Pataudi where they dumped him. At one point, they even blindfolded him and tied him up as he tried to resist the abduction,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said they had registered a case of robbery and under Arms Act. “We are checking CCTV footage from the vicinity of the crime spot to track the vehicle of the suspects or identify them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-men-stage-road-rage-event-to-rob-fortuner/articleshow/79500110.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Name not in electoral list, don’t worry you can still vote||Hyderabad: Even if the name of an elector is missing in the electoral roll and included in the Absentee, Shifted, and Duplicate or Dead (ASD) list, he/she can still cast vote . When the elector shows electoral photo identity card (EPIC) card ( voter card) or any alternative photo document permitted by State Election Commission (SEC) for identification and claims his/her name has been deleted by mistake, he/she is eligible to cast vote. The presiding officer would verify the identification document personally, ask about the identity from polling agents. The details of the documents would be registered by the polling officer on the counter foil of the ballot paper. After the process of identity verification, thumb impression of the person is taken. Generally, before casting a vote signature of the elector is taken, but in cases where a name has been added to ASD list, thumb impression is mandatory. “Thumb impression of such electors shall also be obtained in addition to signature against the column of signature/thumb impression of the counterfoil of the ballot paper. The thumb impression shall be in addition to the signature even in the case of an elector who is literate and can sign,” SEC said in a statement. Presiding officer of each booth has been provided with the ASD list. The list was prepared by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) deputy commissioners and returning officers would ensure all the presiding officers are handed over the list. The onus of ensuring the instructions pertaining to electors added in ASD list are followed lies with micro observers. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls is a litmus test for parties hoping to gain control of the economic centre of Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/name-not-in-electoral-list-dont-worry-you-can-still-vote/articleshow/79500141.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||Over 24,000 active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: As part of focused testing to arrest the spread of novel coronavirus during peak festival season, including Diwali, the state government conducted sampling of 1,17,766 street vendors of which 2,275 were found to be Covid positive. Unveiling the data on Monday, additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the exercise was part of a broader plan to assess the pattern and intensity of the corona infection during the festival time. The health department also collected 62,786 samples from medicine shops and nursing homes. Of this, as many as 1,650 were found to be affected by the virus. The health department recorded 2,044 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. As many as 19 people lost their lives to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the total toll to 7,761. A maximum of four deaths were reported from Lucknow. Prasad said that the state had 24,099 active cases which was lower than on Sunday when 24,575 active cases were reported. As many as 2,472 people got discharged after getting treated in various hospitals in the state. The recovery rate was thus 94.14%. At the same time, he said, the state government is carrying out surveillance to reach out to maximum possible people. The additional chief secretary said that the state had 65,483 Covid help desks which helped more than 10 lakh people in getting tested and subsequently treated for the infection. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal urged people to abstain from crowded places. Monday was also the day when maximum weddings were scheduled. Sehgal said that the economic activities were being carried out in the state to the fullest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-24000-active-covid-cases-in-state/articleshow/79500737.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter-state ATM gang busted, 2 held||Hyderabad: LB Nagar CCS team along with Vanasthalipuram police arrested a two-member interstate gang and seized property worth Rs 35 lakh. The duo was involved in ATM burglaries. Acting on specific information, police arrested Mohammad Amir (22), a driver and Mohammed Afridi (19), a private employee from their house in New Premnagar, Amberpet on Monday. In October 2019, these two persons along with Md Farooq (24), a welder from Malakpet were arrested by Abdullapurmet police in a robbery case. While he was in Cherlapally jail, Amir met members of a Haryana-based interstate ATM centre burglary gang comprising Sajid, Azhar, Shahid, Azad, Junaid and Abid Khan. After their release, the Haryana gang asked Amir to look for ATM centres in isolated areas. After Amir identified the areas, the Haryana gang arrived here in the second week of November. The accused stayed in a hotel at Auto Nagar and conducted several recces. Though they attempted to loot ATMs in Choutuppal and other places, they succeeded only on November 16. The accused cut the SBI bank ATM cash chest near at Vanasthalipuram and stole Rs 8 lakh. Based on the complaint of the bank officials, a case was registered and police managed to zero in on two city-based offenders on Monday. Cops seized Rs 30,000 cash, four cars, a bike and welding equipment from these two offenders. A manhunt has been launched to nab the absconding gang members from Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-atm-gang-busted-2-held/articleshow/79500099.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||3 brothel operators arrested||Hyderabad: Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of Rachakonda commissionerate busted an international trafficking racket and rescued two Bangladeshi women. Acting on credible information, AHTU cops along with Abdullapurmet police conducted a decoy operation to arrest Sana Khan, Qamarunnisa and Md Parwez at Abdullapurmet on November 28 for being part of a brothel racket. Based on their confession, police arrested Mozam Mondal, 30, at LB Nagar X Roads on November 29 and rescued two Bangladeshi women. Mozam confessed that along with his associates, Liton Sarkar, 25, Abir Shaik, 24, and Mumtaz Alo Mondal, 25, he was operating a brothel in Manikonda. Police raided the flat in Manikonda and arrested the three offenders. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-brothel-operators-arrested/articleshow/79500108.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Ganja peddlers held||Hyderabad: LB Nagar Special Operations Team (SOT) sleuths busted a ganja peddling racket and seized 76 kg of the contraband on Monday. Acting on specific information, SOT sleuths along with Saroornagar police arrested Sanjeev alias Kabiraj, 21, a labourer from Sileru in Visakhapatnam district, D Venkanna Swamy, 26, a driver from Machilipatnam, both from Andhra Pradesh, and M Madhan, 27, a buyer from Qutbullapur near Kothapet X Roads in possession of ganja. The accused confessed that they had obtained ganja from the Sileru Agency area of Visakhapatnam district in AP. Police seized 76 kg ganja, a car and a bike, Rs 3,000 cash and four cell phones, all worth Rs 16.8 lakh from their possession. “Sanjeev with the help of Venkanna Swamy has been buying ganja for Rs 5,000 a kilo from Manga and selling the same to buyers like Madhan for Rs 10,000 a kilo,” police said. The duo confessed to police that they have so far sold the contraband thrice to clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganja-peddlers-held/articleshow/79500090.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Fresh security concerns: 23-year-old stabbed to death by 3 in Tihar Jail||NEW DELHI: In yet another incident that has raised questions over the security of prisoners, a 23-year-old undertrial was brutally stabbed to death by three inmates inside Tihar Jail on Monday morning. In September, another prisoner was killed in a similar manner after which several undertrials had recorded a video alleging that the jail superintendents were hand in glove with criminals and even helped them execute such murders. The prison administration had then set up a committee to probe the allegations. Dilsher, who was killed on Monday, was lodged in jail number 3 and was facing trial in a murder case, said a Tihar official. He was jailed on June 11, 2019. Around 9.30am, police were informed about the undertrial being attacked by three inmates following a quarrel. The prisoner was rushed to Central Jail Hospital where he was declared dead. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said the three accused inmates have been booked for murder. During investigation, it was found that the trio had used a sharp metal piece to stab Dilsher. The attack was the fallout of an argument that had taken place between them some time ago. The incident raises serious questions over security lapse and safety of prisoners inside the jail. Last month, a 4 minute 44 second video allegedly shot inside jail number 1 had surfaced on social media in which an inmate could be seen giving a detailed account of mishaps inside Tihar. It included the sequence of events that had led to the murder of an inmate, Sikander (29), on September 24 by four prisoners. The inmate alleged that the murder was done in a planned manner and jail officials were a part of it. Several other inmates could also be seen standing in the video. The inmate further alleged that the prison authorities didn’t clean the blood on the ground. In another 30-second video, another inmate claimed that he had witnessed the murder, but no one took his statement. Sikander was attacked with a sharp object outside his barrack in jail number 1. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. His family members had alleged that he was stabbed with a knife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fresh-security-concerns-23-yr-old-stabbed-to-death-by-3-in-tihar-jail/articleshow/79500335.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 4 fraudsters dupe 2,500 investors of Rs 7 crore||HYDERABAD: Four persons who allegedly operated an online investment firm Stemcor Max Hedge and duped around 2,500 investors to the tune of Rs 7 crore by collecting investments from them and promising to pay 5% interest per day, were arrested by Cyberabad police on Monday. At a press conference, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that the accused, identified as Nanda Kishore, C Anand Reddy, B Avinash and T Srinivas Rao, were arrested. All four accused hail from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. The fraud came to light after an assistant engineer in Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) lodged a complaint against the firm with the Cyberabad police. The assistant engineer had come across an online advertisement of the firm in October and visited their website, following which he found that the business has both a website www.stemcormaxhedge.com and a mobile phone application. “When the engineer contacted the executive, they said that for the money invested, they will pay 5% interest per day for 60 days to the investor. If an investor introduces one more customer to the company, the investor will be given 10% commission on the amount to be invested by the new customer. The customer paid Rs 1.60 lakh and he got a return of Rs 15,320 and was later defaulted,” police said.  The accused projected the firm as a UK-based company. The accused had committed the fraud using laptops from various locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-fraudsters-dupe-2500-investors-of-rs-7-crore/articleshow/79500124.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Elderly dies, three hurt after fire breaks out in Nainital||NAINITAL: A 65-year-old man died while three others sustained injuries in a fire that broke out late on Sunday night. The fire is suspected to have been caused by a blower and the victim could not escape as was a disabled. According to fire department officials, the accident took place in the Mallital area of Nainital. The victim, identified as Ravindra Singh Bisht, was home alone when the accident took place. “The man was a handicapped and therefore, he could not escape on his own. He cried for help but could not be saved by the locals as the flames had got too strong by then. The locals informed us about the accident. We rushed to the spot but could not save the elderly,” said Jawahar Singh Rana, fire officer, Nainital. The official added that that three others living in the floor above have also sustained injuries and were taken to the hospital where they are receiving treatment. “We called for two vehicles and doused the flames. However, three others who live in the building sustained burn injuries while trying to contain the fire. They were taken to a hospital where they received treatment,” Rana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elderly-dies-three-hurt-after-fire-breaks-out-in-nainital/articleshow/79497507.cms||Prashant Jha
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Penna Cements case: High court judge refers IAS officer’s plea to chief justice||Hyderabad: Justice K Lakshman of the Telangana high court on Monday referred the criminal petition filed by senior IAS officer Y Srilakshmi to the chief justice. The officer questioned the cognisance order passed by CBI court, taking into account the supplementary chargesheet in the Penna Cements case, part of the quid pro quo case. The supplementary chargesheet had added her as an accused in the case for the alleged unlawful role she played in doling out public assets like limestone mines to Penna Cements. Along with her, former Andhra Pradesh minister Dharmana Prasada Rao, Telangana school education minister Sabita Indra Reddy and others were included. While Sabita was the mines minister, Dharmana was the revenue minister when the alleged allotment of public assets took place a decade ago. Srilakshmi in her plea questioned the belated additions and the trial court’s decision to recognise such belated action, that too without any new material against her. Justice Lakshman observed that the case is being sent to the chief justice in accordance with the recent direction of the Supreme Court that directed all high courts to expedite hearings in cases where legislators and former legislators were arrayed as accused. “Penna Cements chargesheet filed by the CBI has two legislators in it. Hence, this needs to be referred to the chief justice,” the judge said. Coincidentally, the high court too notified its new sitting arrangement on Monday. The chief justice would now hear all cases pertaining to legislators from December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/penna-cements-case-high-court-judge-refers-ias-officers-plea-to-chief-justice/articleshow/79500149.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||International trade fair from Feb 11-13||Rajkot: At a time when different countries of the world have started looking at India for exports instead of China due to the Covid-19 outbreak, Saurashtra Vepar Udyog Mahamandal (SVUM) has decided to encash this opportunity. From February 11 to 13, 2021, the SVUM is organizing an international trade fair in Rajkot. Being organized at the NSIC ground on the 80-Feet Road at Aji Vasahat, apart from the three-day fair, the SVUM has also arranged two days factory visits for the delegates on February 14-15. According to a release issued by the SVUM, this fair will display various products including those of agriculture, food, machinery, process machinery, building and construction, ceramic, sanitary ware, hard ware, bath fittings, packed fruits, biscuits, corn flakes, tomato ketchup, kitchen ware, house ware, water and air solution, beauty care, health care, cosmetics, garments, footwear, handicrafts, gift articles, spices, electronics, computers and cellphones and their accessories. “We recently received a letter from a Gujarati member of parliament from an African country, who said that the African nations have stopped importing products from China after the outbreak of Covid-19. In such a scenario, if Indian business establishments take an initiative, they can have a great opportunity for exports,” said Mahesh Nagadiya, vice-president of the the SVUM. “That apart, recently Zimbabwe Indian ambassador G M Chipare sent a letter to us saying that the government of Zimbabwe was keen on signing an MoU with the SVUM, and that his government would soon send its cabinet minister of mine and mineral department to Saurashtra,” said Nagadiya. Delegates from different countries of Africa, Asia and Europe are likely to participate in this fare. Those taking part in the fair are likely to get a 50% subsidy. Those traders under SC/ST categories can even get 100% subsidy, added the release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/international-trade-fair-from-feb-11-13/articleshow/79497517.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Four dead in separate road accidents in Almora||NAINITAL: Two road accidents — one near the famous Kasar Devi Temple and the other in Jainti Tehsil — killed four people in Almora district on Monday while injuring almost a dozen others. According to district administration officials, a public carrier fell into a gorge near a restaurant around Kasar Devi Temple killing two and injuring nine others. “The vehicle was travelling from Bageshwar to Haldwani and the accident took place on Monday morning when the vehicle lost control on a turn just near a restaurant and fell into the gorge. The locals informed the police about the accident. Subsequently, a police team reached the spot and rescued those injured,” said an official of the district administration. “The injured were taken to a hospital and are receiving treatment there. Several of them are still critical and one is still missing. We are conducting search operations to find him,” the official said. The victims have been identified as Kishan Ram (45) and Rekha Bhatt (40). Meanwhile in another accident, a car fell into a 100-metre-deep gorge in the Jainti Tehsil of Almora district on Sunday night, killing two persons and injuring as many. The local officials said that four people – all residents of Almora – were onboard the car. “The administration was informed some hours after the accident and therefore, the rescue operation could be started only late in the night. However, we recovered two bodies and sent two injured to the district hospital for treatment. Their families have also been informed and the bodies will be handed over to them soon,” the official said. The dead in the Jainti accident have been identified as Kundan Kunjwal (32) and Raju Adhikari (35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-dead-in-separate-road-accidents-in-almora/articleshow/79497502.cms||Prashant Jha
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC deploys sanitation, Asha workers for poll duty||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation(GHMC) on Monday mobilised hundreds of employees for the poll duty. “More than 4,000 staffers have been deployed. While government officials and permanent employees have been assigned the duties of presiding and assistant presiding officers, outsourcing employees have been appointed as polling officers,” a GHMC official said. On Monday, Asha, anganwadi, GHMC sanitation and entomology workers along with some staffers from line departments were roped in. Several staffers, who reported to GHMC head office were sent to distribution, reception, and counting centres. Over a hundred employees of Telangana Housing Board were given poll duties. Last-minute adjustments became imminent as teachers, who are generally roped in for poll duties, were replaced by officials from line departments. “After teachers were not assigned with the election duty, the data was prepared based on general elections held in 2019. But as there were several transfers and retirements after the general elections, there was some last-minute confusion,” said a GHMC source. “The polling arrangements for GHMC elections have been completed. Distribution of election material and sending polling personnel from the GHMC head office is being monitored by the GHMC commissioner,” the civic body said in a statement. The state election commission said that GHMC officials will not be used for important positions in elections duties such as presiding officers. They are being used as support staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-deploys-sanitation-asha-workers-for-poll-duty/articleshow/79500194.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||HC extends interim orders passed in all cases till Dec 11||Hyderabad: A full bench of Telangana high court has extended the interim orders passed in thousands of cases all over the state by the high court and various district courts till December 11. The full bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan, Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice A Rajasheker Reddy, however, said parties wishing to get these interim orders extended after December 11 should prefer applications before the relevant courts and seek extension. The interim orders, mostly stay orders, were getting extended through a common order ever since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020. The full bench has been extending them from time to time to prevent any possible legal problems to the parties. CJ to hear the cases on legislators: Chief Justice Chauhan would hear the cases pertaining to legislators from Dec 2. The high court issued a notification to this effect on Monday. This was in tune with the directive issued by the Supreme Court that directed all the trial courts in the country to expedite trials in the cases where legislators and former legislators are arrayed as accused. It noticed that the trial in many cases were getting stalled on account of the stay orders issued by the high courts in respect of various individual accused in the cases. The effect of one accused getting a stay on his or her case is resulting in a stay on the entire trial concerning other accused in the case as well. The apex court, to resolve this impasse, directed all the high courts to form special benches to hear all such cases which were proving out to be bottlenecks for concluding trials in cases involving legislators. The chief justice would sit single and would hear such cases from December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-extends-interim-orders-passed-in-all-cases-till-dec-11/articleshow/79500178.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs set up help desks for voters||Hyderabad: To ensure an increase in the polling percentage in GHMC polls, United Federation Residential Welfare Associations (UFERWS) will set up help desks near polling stations. Help desk staff will guide voters who arrive without voter chits/slips and ensure to utilise right of vote in the polling station. UFERWAS, the apex body of the city’s RWAs, organised a zoom meeting with all 4,300 RWAs in the city and instructed them to help voters in their respective apartments to take part in polling. “In fact, due to the number of polling stations being increased due to Covid-19 pandemic, the votes of a family were split into different polling stations. Our RWAs will assist and direct voters about how they have to visit the polling stations,” UFERWAS general secretary, B T Srinivasan, told TOI. “We have taken permission and also obtained passes from Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) to work at polling stations to assist the voters,” Srinivasan said. “We are also supervising wearing of masks, which TSEC has made mandatory at the time of visiting polling stations,” Srinivasan added. UFERWS has advised flat owners of every apartment to carry sanitiser bottles along with them, as part of precautionary measures United Federation Residential Welfare Associations (UFERWS) has advised flat owners of every apartment to carry sanitiser bottles along with them, as part of precautionary measures||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-set-up-help-desks-for-voters/articleshow/79500158.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Uncertainty looms over Numaish||Hyderabad: In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, uncertainty looms over inauguration of the 2021 edition of the annual All India Industrial Exhibition (AIIE), popular as Numaish. With just a month remaining for the inauguration of the 45-day exhibition, which begins on January 1, organisers of the exhibition are yet to get permission from the state government. “The exhibition society will soon approach the chief minister to seek permission to inaugurate the 81st Numaish. All norms under the standard operating procedure for Covid-19 will be followed,” secretary, AIIE Society, Dr Prabha Shankar said. However, city-based advocate Khaza Aijazuddin submitted a letter to PM Narendra Modi against a notification on stalls issued by the exhibition society, saying it may lead to more Covid-19 cases. “Hyderabad collector Swetha Mohanty has responded to my plea and directed the society to withdraw the notification. If the state grants nod for the Numaish I will approach the Supreme Court.” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uncertainty-looms-over-numaish/articleshow/79500202.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP extends Covid restrictions amid rising virus cases||LUCKNOW: The UP government on Monday announced continuing with the general restrictions in the wake of rise in coronavirus cases in some of the districts, specially those close to Delhi. The announcement comes close on the heels of Union home ministry’s advisory on coronavirus issued on November 25. The restrictions will continue from December 1 until further orders. Issuing the order, chief secretary RK Tewari said there is a possibility of Covid-19 cases going up in the coming days given the start of winter season and public’s disregard for the protocols during festivals. The order addressed to all divisional commissioners, DMs and district police chiefs underlined the need of keeping a strict vigil on containment zones and imposing restrictions as per the local requirements. Tewari said that some of the economic and commercial activities have been allowed in a step-wise manner. For this, the state government has issued standards of procedures (SOPs), protocols and the required safety measures which need to be taken. The order reiterated that people should wear masks, wash hands regularly and maintain social distancing. Tewari warned of fine and administrative action against those not wearing face masks in public and workplaces. The SOPs, Tewari said, should be followed by individuals while travelling in public transport too, including Metro rails, flights and trains. The order stressed on effective identification of containment zones and areas having high possibility of coronavirus infections to break the chain of infection. The state government had issued detailed parameters on November 26 to identify containment zones at the micro-level. The government reiterated that only important activities would be allowed in the containment zones and strict protocols will be adopted in movement of people in these zones. Also, house to house vigilance will be expedited and contact tracing will be done if a person is found to be Covid positive. The order further stated that only 100 persons will be allowed in social and religious functions organised outside the containment zone. The activity may be carried out after ensuring that all people wear face masks, while thermal scanning and availability of sanitizer would be mandatory. In case of open spaces, the gathering should be restricted to 40% of the capacity. The order said that though no lockdown would be imposed by the state government outside the containment zone without prior permission from the Centre, night curfew could be imposed. There would be no restriction on inter or intra-state movement of goods carrying vehicles. The SOPs would be applicable in case of shopping malls, multiplex, metro rail and higher education institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-extends-covid-restrictions-amid-rising-virus-cases/articleshow/79500742.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 1, 2020||Goa||Nagpur weekly train till Jan 1||Margao: The railways has extended the service of the Nagpur-Madgaon Jn-Nagpur weekly festival special till January 1, 2021. The train will leave from Nagpur at 4pm every Friday from December 4 to January 1, 2021. It will reach Madgaon Jn at 4.40pm the next day. In the reverse direction, it will leave from Madgaon Jn at 7.40pm every Saturday, from December 5 to January 2, 2021, and reach Nagpur at 8.30pm the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nagpur-weekly-train-till-jan-1/articleshow/79500200.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 12 cases says AMC; 34 says councillor||AHMEDABAD: The Congress municipal councillor from Chandkheda, Rajshree Kesari, has questioned the AMC’s Covid figures from her own housing society. Kesari, a resident of Shyam Bungalows-I in Chandkheda, claims that 168 families (a population of 640) were placed in micro-containment on Sunday at her housing complex. In a video message sent to the AMC’s social media group, she said: “I asked the officials to show me the list of people who have tested positive for the coronavirus. To my surprise, there were just 12 people on the list.” Kesari said that she knew the number was higher. “I requested the AMC team to carry out a survey,” she said. “We then found that the 12 people were those who had used the AMC’s testing facilities. But 22 others have tested positive at private labs.” It appears, Kesari said, that the AMC was not including the results from private labs. She said if the AMC contends that private labs are not sending the data, then action should be taken against them. Or else, she said, the AMC should explain why only 12 people have been declared Covid positive in the society when 34 have the disease. The video was posted in the AMC’s social media group for officials to clarify. But till late on Monday, the officials maintained silence over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12-cases-says-amc-34-says-councillor/articleshow/79500217.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Patna||Dialogue will end farmers’ misconceptions: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday advocated for a dialogue between the Centre and the agitating farmers of Punjab and Haryana assembled on the outskirts of Delhi. He said the ongoing protests were due to “unreasonable misconceptions” being created among the farmers. “The Centre wants to talk to farmers to dispel their apprehensions about procurement mechanisms. Once there is dialogue, the farmers will get correct information about the farm bills. The Centre should also tell farmers that there will be no problem in procurement of agricultural produce and they will get the fixed prices. I believe dialogue should take place to end unreasonable misconceptions created among the farmers,” Nitish said after inaugurating the 12.27km-long AIIMS-Digha elevated corridor in Patna. Nitish also asserted that there would be no problem in procurement of agriculture produces of farmers due to the new farm Acts. He said the Bihar government made a similar arrangement in 2006 after abolishing the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. “Bihar is an example. The state government abolished the APMC Act in 2006 in the larger interest of farmers. Now, similar arrangements are being made across the country through the farm laws. When Bihar abolished the APMC Act, no new problems arose. The state government began procurement of agriculture produce through the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS). This year, too, the state government has fixed a target of procuring more than 30 lakh metric tonnes of farm produce,” Nitish said. Farmers have been protesting at various places in Delhi and Haryana and have rejected the central government’s offer to hold talks on December 3, saying “imposing conditions for starting a dialogue is an insult to them.” Around 32 farmer organizations, mostly from Punjab, and a few from Gujarat and Maharashtra also managed to reach Delhi and assembled at the border to continue with their protests. The farmers are protesting against The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dialogue-will-end-farmers-misconceptions-nitish/articleshow/79497664.cms||Madan Kumar
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||HC stays state’s move to constitute temple trusts||Hyderabad: Asking the state to keep its hands off the small temples, justice A Rajasekhar Reddy of the Telangana high court on Monday stayed all further proceedings initiated by the state for constituting non-hereditary trust boards to temples in Telangana. The order will apply to temples with an annual income between Rs 25 lakh to Rs one crore. The judge issued this interim order while admitting a writ petition filed by Telangana State Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions Founder Trustees’ Association. The petitioner association questioned a notification issued by the state for this purpose and said that the notification was contrary to the ratio laid down by the Supreme Court in 1996. Deepak Misra, counsel for the petitioner pointed out that the power to make such appointment is vested with Dharmik Parishad under the Endowments Act and the state government cannot arrogate to itself the said power. “It is the Dharmik Parishad alone that has such power and in the absence of such power being vested in the government the action of calling for applications is without jurisdiction,” Misra said. Senior counsel L Ravichander termed the notification as bad and described as unlawful the government’s attempts to fill temples with political followers in place of members of founder families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-stays-states-move-to-constitute-temple-trusts/articleshow/79500232.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||Woman plots theft at her father’s house||Rajkot: A woman was booked on Monday for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to commit theft at her father’s house in Railnagar locality of Rajkot. She had sent her boyfriend to commit the crime. Her boyfriend was arrested on Monday. Police said the accused, Riyansi Christian (22), had sent her boyfriend Parth Bhatt (28) to commit theft at the house of her father Francis Christain. Bhatt had stolen two gold biscuits, one gold chain, Rs 1.60 lakh cash, all worth Rs 7.34 lakh, from Francis’ house on November 25. The theft was committed while Francis was away to Delhi along with his family members between November 24 and November 29. The theft was detected upon return of Francis on November 29. “From the very beginning of the investigation, we suspected it to have been the handiwork of an insider as the lock of the house had not been broken, but a duplicate key was used to open the main door,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch. During the investigation, the police found out that Francis’s daughter Riyansi had a live-in relationship with Bhatt. “Both Riyansi and Bhatt were on the radar of our suspicion. When we went to her house and interrogated Bhatt, he broke down and confessed to the crime. Bhatt told the police that Riyansi had once brought the key to Francis’s house, of which he made the duplicate key,” said L L Chavda, inspector with Pradyumannagar police station. Riyansi asked Bhatt to commit theft at Francis’s house while the latter was going to Delhi. Bhatt told the cops that as Riyansi wanted to set up her office for a placement agency, she had plotted the theft. The police recovered the two stolen gold biscuits, the gold chain and Rs 55,000 cash from the boot of Bhatt’s two-wheeler on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-plots-theft-at-her-fathers-house/articleshow/79497541.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Corona protocol violations caught by police’s ‘Third Eye’||AHMEDABAD: Amid the Covid-19 surge, Ahmedabad Police have opened their ‘Third Eye’ to spot those who flout corona norms. According to senior police officials, several teams of special branch personnel were formed recently. The members of the team, in plainclothes, patrol the city in unmarked vehicles. The teams shoot pictures of people violating Covid-19 guidelines — for instance, not wearing masks or not maintaining social distance. According to police officials, since the initiative began more than 50 cases have been registered based on the pictures sent by the special branch to a dedicated WhatsApp group Wedding processions and shops are being monitored with particular care. Though additional commissioner of police, special branch, Premveer Singh refused to comment, sources said the teams have been capturing violators on cameras for a while.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-protocol-violations-caught-by-polices-third-eye/articleshow/79500227.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||65-year-old killed by leopard in Chamoli, 4th death in district this year||DEHRADUN: A 65-year-old man has been mauled to death in Joshimath area of Chamoli district, by the same leopard that killed a labourer working on the all-weather Char Dham road at Halthoda Taiya pul in September, barely 100 meters away from where it struck on Monday. This is the fourth death in Chamoli this year. Onlookers say the incident occurred around 10 am, when the man was headed to his shop in the market at Panka ward in the Joshimath municipal council. Blood on the road alerted locals and a brief search led to the body. Protesting against authorities for not reaching the spot in time and not capturing the leopard since September, locals refused to take away the body till 5pm. “It’s gross irresponsible behaviour on part of the forest department. We urge the forest department to take swift action so no more innocent lives are lost,” said Shailendra Panwar, president, Joshimath Municipal Council. Nanda Ballabh Sharma, DFO, Nanda Devi National Park Division, said that he had sought permission from higher authorities to install cages and that permission to declare the leopard a man-eater will be done on Tuesday. Commenting on the villagers’ protest, he said “The villagers were demanding that a senior official be present at the spot but our ranger is on leave. A junior person did reach the spot by 12pm.” In Chamoli, a 4-year-old boy of Bhayada Malethi village was dragged away and killed by a leopard on June 29 and an 11-year-old girl of Garibam village in Narayanbagar forest range was killed on May 29. After the incident, a 7-year-old leopardess was shot dead by the forest department. According to data available with the forest department, Uttarkhand has already lost over 25 people to leopard attacks this year alone while seven leopards have been terminated after being declared man-eaters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/65-yr-old-killed-by-leopard-in-chamoli-4th-death-in-dist-this-year/articleshow/79497527.cms||Shivani Azad
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||PM holds virtual meeting with biotech, pharma cos||Hyderabad: After his three-city Covid-19 vaccine tour over the weekend, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday held virtual meetings with top guns at three biotech and pharmaceutical players involved with the development and manufacturing of vaccine candidates for coronavirus. In the hour-long meeting, the PM discussed the progress of various Covid-19 vaccine candidates with senior management at Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Biological E Ltd as well as Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals. Dr Reddy’s chairman Satish Reddy and co-chairman and managing director GV Prasad along with the company’s CEO (API and Pharmaceutical Services) Deepak Sapra briefed the PM about the efforts underway in combating Covid-19, including the advancements in the Sputnik V clinical trials and the collaboration underway with regulatory authorities and hospitals in the country. The Russian sovereign fund, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), has joined hands with Dt Reddy’s for conducting Phase II/III trials of Russian vaccine Sputnik V in India and distributing over 100 million doses of the vaccine in the country. Apart from this, the company has also been manufacturing drugs like Avigan, the innovator Favipiravir brand in tie-up with Japan’s Fujifilm, and Remdesivir following a pact with its innovator Gilead Sciences. Biological E, on the other hand, has a recombinant protein vaccine candidate, being developed jointly with U-based Baylor College of Medicine and Dynavax Technologies, that has commenced Phase I/II clinical trials earlier this month. A statement put out by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said apart from the progress on vaccine development front, the PM also deliberated on matters relating to logistics, transport and cold chain for delivery of the potential vaccines. PMO said that all the vaccine candidates discussed are at different stages of trials and detailed data and results are expected early next year onwards. The PM also asked these companies to come up with suggestions and ideas regarding regulatory processes and related matters. He also advised all the departments concerned to engage with manufacturers and seek to resolve matters so that the efforts by these companies bear fruit and serve the needs of not just the country but the entire world, PMO said. He also urged these companies to take extra efforts to inform the general public in simple language about the vaccine and related matters such as its efficacy. On Saturday, Modi had visited the facilities of Bharat Biotech, which is developing the country’s first indigenous vaccine Covaxin, in Hyderabad, Zydus Cadila in Ahmedabad and Serum Institute of India in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-holds-virtual-meeting-with-biotech-pharma-cos/articleshow/79500248.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Case positivity on Monday 2% more than on Sunday||Panaji: Goa reported 159 new cases of Covid, 150 recoveries and one death, taking the count of active cases to 1,334 on Monday. As many as 45 people, including tourists, were fined for not wearing masks. A 60-year-old man from Sindhudurg district in Maharashtra, who was under treatment in Goa Medical College (GMC), succumbed to the virus after eight days of treatment. This is one of many cases referred to GMC since the pandemic. The case positivity rate shot up to 9% on Monday, two percent more than on Sunday. The positivity rate constantly remained below 10% for the past three weeks. It was only during the first eight days of the last month that it was 12%. As the new cases declined in November, so also did the mortality rate, which dropped to an average three deaths a day as compared to four to five per day last month. As many as 84 Covid-19 casualties were reported in November and 4,335 new infections, which were less than 50% vis-a-vis October. A total of 175 people died due to Covid-19 in October. Since the pandemic, Goa saw the highest number of cases in September. The month saw 16,000 new cases and 235 casualties when all three government-run Covid hospitals ran out of beds. Few beds reserved by four private hospitals for Covid patients were all taken up. On Monday, Porvorim primary health centre in North Goa continued to have more cases as against other centres. Its caseload was 105 and that of Panaji was 81.  In South Goa, Margao urban health centre’s caseload was 113 and that of Ponda primary 94, whereas the case tally of all other centres dropped below 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/case-positivity-on-monday-2-more-than-on-sunday/articleshow/79500241.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Candidates continued virtual campaigning on eve of polling day||Hyderabad: Though campaigning for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections officially ended on Sunday, virtual campaigning continued even on Monday as supporters of several contesting candidates made use of social media to seek votes. Denizens said that a majority of them received short videos, images, and text messages about the achievements of candidates, the serial number of candidates on the ballot paper, among other details, asking them to vote for a particular candidate on December 1. “I received multiple messages from various party candidates on WhatsApp. While images had details of a candidate on the ballot paper, videos highlighted achievements of political parties,” said M Ram Reddy, a private employee. Charan J, an engineering student said that he received messages regarding voting and Tuesday’s elections in almost all groups he is part of in the WhatsApp. “Be it in my class, friends, or family groups, almost every group has multiple messages about tomorrow’s elections. While few, who are supporting candidates of a particular political party, are asking to vote in their support, most of the messages are targeted towards creating awareness on voting so as to increase voting percentage.” On Twitter too, not just supporters of a candidate or party, several political parties and politicians also tweeted from their verified accounts urging people to come out and vote. “Your vote is a path towards building a transformed, transparent, honest and accountable governance. Think and use your right diligently, tomorrow, 1st December 2020 from 7AM till 6PM. #Vote4GoodGovernance #GHMCElections,” read a message from union minister G Kishan Reddy with handle @kishanreddybjp. Likewise, the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi party from its official handle @trspartyonline tweeted “Choose between divisive politics and decisive policies. Choose between name changers and game-changers. Choose between anarchy and development. Let’s VOTE for Hyderabad Development - #VoteForCar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/candidates-continued-virtual-campaigning-on-eve-of-polling-day/articleshow/79500242.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||Is strong immunity the cause for low incidence?||LUCKNOW: They are poor, living in unhygienic conditions, not wearing masks nor following social distancing, yet very few dwellers of the urban slums in Lucknow have tested positive for Covid-19 as compared to the largely middle and upper class people of residential colonies. This fact was revealed in the targeted sampling of slums in Gomtinagar, Chinhat, Aishbagh, Indiranagar and Sitapur road among others by the chief medical officer (CMO) office from November 19 to November 30. Around 12,000 people were tested through antigen and RT-PCR methods, but the positivity rate was found to be very low. “Overall, Lucknow’s positivity rate is between 3.5% and 4%, but it was found to be less than 1% in urban slums, which indicates that the transmission rate is very low among slum dwellers. In comparison, the positivity rate is higher in middle/upper class residential localities in areas like Aashiana, Indiranagar, Aliganj, Chinhat and Gomtinagar,” said deputy CMO, Dr Milind Wardhan. This, experts say, means slum dwellers either have strong immunity or have developed herd immunity, which can be determined through a sero survey to check the presence of antibodies. Health officers said there is a theory that slum dwellers have strong immunity because they are exposed to several viruses while growing up. Also, if immunity is strong, a person remains asymptomatic even after being infected, they added. On the other hand, they said, lack of awareness could also be the reason for many slum dwellers not being able to recognise mild Covid-19 symptoms and getting cured naturally on their own. “Another theory is that these areas have developed herd immunity, but a definite conclusion can be arrived only after further studies,” said a senior officer. In August, a study on ‘antibodies among blood donors’, conducted by KGMU’s Transfusion Medicine department had found that out of 2,121 healthy blood donors, 63 (3%) had Covid-19 antibodies without even knowing that they contracted the disease at some point of time. Of the 63, nearly 30% (19) were daily wagers, including migrant labourers. Head of microbiology department at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences, Dr Jyotsna Agarwal said, “Herd immunity is said to be present when at least 50% of the population has antibodies, which is not the case as of now. It could be possible that these slum dwellers were not exposed to the virus at all, because Covid-19 has been more a disease of travelers.” “Anything concrete about herd or strong immunity can be said only after further tests and studies,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/is-strong-immunity-the-cause-for-low-incidence/articleshow/79500746.cms||Yusra Husain
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Come back & vote, Uttam urges citizens||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has appealed to the party cadre to prevail upon their family members, relatives and friends who are registered voters in Greater Hyderabad limits and had gone back to their villages, to come back to the state capital and cast their vote without fail on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/come-back-vote-uttam-urges-citizens/articleshow/79500206.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||India||Pakistan jets didn’t violate Indian airspace: IAF||NEW DELHI: The Indian Air Force (IAF) on Monday rejected reports that Pakistani fighter jets had violated Indian airspace or flown dangerously close to the Line of Control (LoC) in the Poonch area of Jammu and Kashmir. Contrails or smoke trails of an aircraft flying in the Pakistani airspace, which were spotted from the ground across the LoC in India, triggered an alert and speculation about Pakistani fighters coming close to the LoC, if not crossing it, on Monday morning. “There was no airspace violation. Contrails high up in the sky can be mistaken by untrained people as being overhead or close by,” an IAF officer said. No trace of second pilot yet With debris of the MiG-29K fighter that crashed on Thursday being located around 50 km off Goa in the Arabian Sea, the Navy has now deployed deep-sea divers and specialised equipment to search for the missing second pilot. There has been no trace of Commander Nishant Singh till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-jets-didnt-violate-indian-airspace-iaf/articleshow/79501652.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Covid woes add to stigma, make HIV patients’ life even tougher||Panaji: Even as the Covid-19 pandemic wreaks havoc on livelihoods with job losses, youth with HIV — who find it tough to find gainful employment at the best of times — are now facing a double setback. Even though HIV has been known for almost three decades, the stigma attached to individuals who have it hasn’t faded, and forces many of the sufferers to hide their condition from their employers. “It’s a fact that nobody will employ them if their HIV status is known,” said Peter Borges, president, Human Touch, a not-for-profit organisation working with HIV-positive people. “Also, many of them are uneducated, which makes them unfit for office jobs.” A youth in his 20s who worked at a repair shop in South Goa lost his job a few months ago when his employer accidentally learnt of his HIV-positive status. And he isn’t the only one. Around 20 persons — all born with the virus — have lost their jobs during the pandemic. Many of them were employed in the tourism industry. Borges said that persons with HIV are required to regularly pick up medicines, and they’re prone to fall ill more often than others. Also, the medication is known to make people drowsy. “If they skip work, there are chances of them being thrown out. What excuses they will give when they’re required to visit an ART centre to collect their monthly doses, or if they are unwell often,” Borges said, adding that hence, most of these are employed in unregulated sectors, which follow a hire-and-fire policy. “Things have really gotten difficult for them,” he said. Organisations Borges is linked to have over 300 patients, aged 4 to 26, under their wings. All of these are cases of mother-to-child transmission. Most of the children have lost either or both parents, and even those whose parents are alive find it difficult to support them due to health or lack of resources. Hence, pursuing education is a difficult proposition for these children. “I know just three who have studied up to graduation, and others have given up schooling after Classes IX or X, and girls have been found better performers academically than boys,” Borges said. He also said that although they help children to pick-up skills such as tailoring and other crafts which may help them earn a livelihood, during the pandemic, there is no demand for their products. “With commercial activities gaining momentum, we only hope that our boys and girls who are going through difficult times will find jobs in the near future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-woes-add-to-stigma-make-hiv-patients-life-even-tougher/articleshow/79500266.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP upbeat, pins hope on higher turnout||Hyderabad: Just hours ahead of the polling, the BJP has mixed feelings. On one hand, it is enthusiastic and on the other, is concerned over poor voter turnout. Vote percentage has never crossed 46 in the civic body elections in the city and this is bothering the saffron party. The party leadership, however, believes it will have a far better chance of winning the elections if the voting percentage is higher. “Union home minister Amit Shah was categorically told by the state unit leaders that the party will be winning at least 65 wards out of 150. Shah told us that every effort must be made to bag the mayor seat,” a top BJP leader told TOI. As a last-ditch effort, party leaders and contestants even visited temples to talk to people and ask them to vote for the BJP. Party leaders conducted Ganapati homam in the party office on Monday, seeking the lord’s blessings for the party candidates’ win. Internally, the party has divided the 149 wards it is in the fray into three categories of A, B and C. Sources said the party has identified around 20 wards in A category where it has definite chances of winning. Another 40 to 50 wards fall in B category where it is involved in a bitter fight with the ruling TRS. “We can win these wards with good booth management,” a party leader said. C category wards are those where the party’s winning chances are low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-upbeat-pins-hope-on-higher-turnout/articleshow/79500265.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||Band concert at IMA introduces future officers to martial tunes||DEHRADUN: With an aim to introduce the future officers to the martial tunes and Army bands, a band concert of the Indian Army Bands was held at Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Monday. The Khetarpal Auditorium at IMA reverberated with the mesmerising tunes played in an impressive fusion of instruments like flute, oboe, clarine, french horn, bugle, bagpipe, etc. IMA Commandant Lt Gen Harinder Singh participated in the event as the chief guest. Along with him, many gentlemen cadets and officers of the IMA also attended the event. “Bands and Martial Music have been a tradition of the Indian Army since time immemorial. Even in early times, these bands motivated soldiers moving into raging battles using their passionate tunes to evoke intense fervor in the troops. They continue to remain central to ceremonial, social, and recreational events adding grandeur, regalia,” said Lt Col Himani Pant, public relations officer at IMA. In the Indian Army, the Military and Pipes & Drums Bands are treated with profound honor and they are considered the pride of various Units, Combat Regiments. Ceremonies of state and national honours, celebration of victories and military pageants are conducted to the beats and rhythm of military music. The Indian Army, at present, has 50 Military Bands and more than 400 Pipes & Drum bands. The band comprises finest musicians from various regiments of the Army. In the recent past, the Indian Army Bands have participated in various military ceremonies abroad, including music festivals in Russia, France, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, Malaysia, and Germany.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/band-concert-at-ima-introduces-future-officers-to-martial-tunes/articleshow/79497555.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||Four more lose Covid battle, 296 test positive||LUCKNOW: The city’s Covid-19 toll inched closer to the 1,000 mark with four more patients losing their battle with the disease on Monday, taking the number of deaths to 995 in nine months since the outbreak. Besides, 296 more persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection, while 355 patients recovered. With this, the total case count since March reached 71,769, of which 67,126 (93.5%) have recovered. At present, 3,648 patients have ‘active infection’ status. A comparison of nine months of Covid-19 in Lucknow shows that the decline in transmission rate and deaths that started in October after peaking in August and September continued in November, but it was still higher than July. On the other hand, the rate of recovery was lower in November in terms of cases. Experts say this means that transmission rate has hit a plateau after decline in the past two months. It also indicates that the recovery time has increased in winters, they added. However, the cause of concern is that the death rate still continues to be nearly 1.4%. There is a possibility of a second wave in December-January because of the cold conditions. Area wise, Gomtinagar recorded highest 29 cases on Monday followed by Indiranagar 24, Rae Bareli road 22, Chowk 20, Aashiana 19, Alambagh 17, Hazratganj 14, Madioan 13, Thakurganj 12, Mahanagar and Vikasnagar 11 each, Aliganj and Talkatora 10 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/four-more-lose-covid-battle-296-test-ve/articleshow/79500755.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Pernem cops ask hotels to follow Covid norms||Panaji: Starting with Diwali mid-November, the inflow of tourists has only increased in the state. To ensure all tourism stakeholders leave nothing to chance, Pernem police held a meeting on Monday asking them to abide by Covid-19 protocols. Hotel managements were handed over copies of advisories on behalf of Pernem police. The advisory contains measures that a hotel is required to take in the event a positive case is detected among its guests, said Pernem PI Jivba Dalvi, who chaired the meeting, which was attended by managements of several hotel establishments in the taluka. Hotels are also required to reserve a room/rooms for isolation of guests who test positive. The PI said they are keeping a watch to ensure that people as well as tourists do not move around without masks. “Those who are found without masks are fined,” he said. Pernem police have fined as many as 1,885 locals and tourists for not wearing masks. The taluka has a beautiful coastline. It has seen a significant rise in tourists over the past one decade. The beaches of Arambol, Morjim and Ashvem are equally popular among domestic as well as foreign tourists. This season, the state hasn’t received international visitors owing to restrictions on international commercial flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-cops-ask-hotels-to-follow-covid-norms/articleshow/79500261.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Dehradun||455 Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With the state recording 455 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 74,795. The state also recorded nine more coronavirus-related fatalities. Among the nine deaths, six were reported from Dehradun and one each from Chamoli, Nainital and Tehri. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that 352 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 67,827. According to the health department, the maximum of 185 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 57 in Nainital, 47 in Pithoragarh, 24 cases each in Udham Singh Nagar and Almora, 23 in Haridwar, 19 in Pauri, 17 in Chamoli, 14 in Tehri, 13 in Bageshwar, 11 each in Champawat and Uttarkashi, and eight in Rudraprayag. Meanwhile, official data revealed that the telemedicine service has, after the Covid-19 outbreak, helped more than 28,000 people who were not able to reach doctors due to travel and other restrictions. The service, being run by the state health department, is being availed by an average of 150 people on a daily basis. Health secretary Amit Negi said that the telemedicine service, available between 9 am and 2 pm, is being promoted to make healthcare services effective in the state. “Specialist doctors provide consultation through telemedicine services,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/455-covid-19-cases-9-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79497539.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Urban poor among biggest categories of voters in city||Hyderabad: Despite struggling to make ends meet, the urban poor, vote in large numbers in elections. Though the middle class and the rich are usually reluctant to vote, the slum dwellers exercise their franchise with a lot of enthusiasm, thereby, contributing to the rise in poll percentage. Even as the 429-year-old city is expanding at an impressive pace, the rapid rise in the slum population raises concerns. According to 2001 census 2001, the slum population was 19 lakh and in a decade, it had increased to nearly 23 lakh. Slums are notified and de-notified according to the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1956. As per the 2011 census, the city’s slum population was the eighth largest in the country. Slums are notified on the basis of living conditions like availability of drinking water, drainage etc. As per estimates, there are no basic amenities in about 2500 colonies in the city. The Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) conducted a survey in 1969 and identified 300 slums. Another survey said that the number of slums increased to 800. After the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was formed in 2007, 1132 slums were identified, but only 334 slum areas were officially declared. KC Anil, an independent researcher said that construction workers make 80 to 90 percent of the slum population and the rest are domestic helps. Many studies also indicated that the population of the urban poor is increasing in the last ten years. “We have come from Uttar Pradesh as work is regularly available here. Moreover, food, travel and shelter are not very expensive in Hyderabad. Though we went back to UP during the lockdown, we are back in this city. We have our votes here and many party workers have approached us,” said Vikas, a street vendor, who sells chat in Jubilee Hills slums.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/urban-poor-among-biggest-categories-of-voters-in-city/articleshow/79500279.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||Missing woman from Jafrabad village found||Rajkot: The woman who had gone missing from a village of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district two years ago was found from a village of Savarkundla taluka on Monday. Police said the woman, identified as Raju Baraiya (25), had gone missing from her residence in Balana village of Jafrabad taluka since June 15, 2018. “We had received instructions from the Bhavnagar range director general of police to trace missing persons from the district. Following orders, we received an information that Baraiya, the missing woman, was spotted in Thavi village of Savarkundala, following which we went there and secured the custody of the woman,” said an official from Amreli local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/missing-woman-from-jafrabad-village-found/articleshow/79497562.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: 57% jump in leopard deaths, PCCF proposes action plan||NAGPUR: With alarming leopard deaths from 110 in 2019 to 172 by November-end this year, a jump by 57%, the state forest department has proposed to prepare an action plan with the help of a technical study group to address this issue. “The increase in conflict leading to leopard deaths and loss of human life due to leopards have to be addressed in a more holistic manner considering the ecological as well as social aspects of the problem. Hence, we will propose a technical study group to address this issue,” said state’s chief wildlife warden Nitin H Kakodkar. “The study group will be like the one set up for tigers. The issue will be raised in the 16th state board for wildlife (SBWL) meeting slated for December 4,” said Kakodkar, who is also member-secretary of the board. As per the official figures of the forest department, of the 172 leopard deaths in 2020, 86 were natural, 34 road/rail hits, 25 drowning, 17 poaching and 3 due to other reasons. The deaths due to road hit, poaching and drowning have almost doubled compared to last year. In 2019, 17 animals died in road hits while it was 34 in 2020. Similarly, 25 died due to drowning this year, while the number was 10 last year. At least 9 leopards died due to poaching last year. The same figure was 17 in 2020. Deaths due to electrocution also increased from 1 to 7. The deaths due to road hits are due to the widening of state and national highways without any mitigation measures across the state. Over 10,000km of roads are being constructed and widened in the state. “Not all deaths took place on the newly-constructed national highways. Several deaths were on state highways and main district roads. Though the death toll appears on the higher side, our rapid rescue units (RRUs) rescued 124 leopards in the last two years,” said Kakodkar. He attributed the number of deaths to increase in the leopard population in the state. “This has led to increasing man-animal conflict. From 8 human deaths in 2019, this year 24 people have died, a three-fold increase,” added Kakodkar. A maximum 12 deaths have been recorded in Nashik circle. The PCCF (wildlife) said the behaviour of leopards, their adaptability and prolific breeding resulted in increase in population. Leopards also thrive in urban landscapes in sugarcane fields and other agricultural fields having prey like wild boars, dogs and cattle. As per the Phase IV tiger estimation conducted in 2020, 669 leopards have been recorded in Maharashtra. However, the number may even be more as in several areas, the estimation was not done. The state has a major population of leopards in sugarcane and other agricultural fields and human-dominated landscapes making monitoring very difficult. In order to control leopard deaths and loss of human life due to conflict, the PCCF (wildlife) has submitted a report on the deaths of leopard to the government in July 2020. Zilla parishads of Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Dhule and Amravati have been asked to construct parapet walls, erect nets around wells and take other mitigation measures to reduce the number of wild animals falling into wells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/57-jump-in-leopard-deaths-pccf-proposes-action-plan/articleshow/79500291.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 1, 2020||Hyderabad||CP acting at CM’s behest: Vivek||Hyderabad: GHMC polls BJP manifesto committee chairman G Vivek Venkatswamy sought to know how CP Anjani Kumar can book a case against him without any proof. “We have filed a defamation case against the CP. We wanted to know why a criminal case without any evidence was booked against me,” he asked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cp-acting-at-cms-behest-vivek/articleshow/79500270.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Astronomical station reopens today, entry for members only||Panaji: The public astronomical observatory at Panaji is set to open in a phased manner from December 1, after being shut owing to the pandemic. The Association of the Friends of Astronomy (AFA) had written to department of science and technology for directives on reopening the Panaji observatory following which SOPs have been laid out for stargazers and AFA members. While the observatory will be reopened from December 1, Initially, entry will be limited only to AFA members. For that, members will have to inform the observatory at least four hours prior to the visit. “Members will be allowed entry only for serious observation, participation in any pre-organised activity or for library reference or officially,” AFA said, adding that the observatory will not permit any “loitering and sitting idle” by its members. The observatory will be fully reopening for local visitors and tourists only in the second phase. People visiting will be checked at entry point with a hand-held thermal gun and will be allowed to enter the premises only after sanitising their hands and wearing a mask. “One member will be allowed to use only one instrument per visit with hand gloves. The same instrument will not be used for the next 24 hours as optics cannot be sanitised,” AFA said. Observatories at Porvorim, Margao and Mapusa will be opened only with due permissions from the mother institutions. The decision of reopening Morjim, Borim, Canacona, Sakhali and Vasco centres will be taken only after schools reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/astronomical-station-reopens-today-entry-for-members-only/articleshow/79500280.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||Tourist lashes out at CCP staff over mask penalty||Panaji: A heated argument broke out on the steps of the Our Lady of Immaculate Conception church after a Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) inspector fined a tourist for not wearing a mask. The woman, who was accompanied by her partner, immediately lashed out at the official, saying that she is being harassed. The woman said that she was maintaining social distance and that others around her were also not wearing masks. She is seen shouting at the officials with her mask below her chin in a video clip on social media. This is not an isolated incident, Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. He said that CCP officials continue to face resistance from citizens and tourists, who refuse to wear a mask in public. “We welcome tourists to Panaji, but they have a responsibility to wear a mask,” Madkaikar said. “Wearing a mask is good for them and for locals.” CCP officials said that the woman seen arguing in the video was found walking for 200m without a mask and only pulled out the mask from her pocket after the CCP inspector approached her. Till date, CCP has fined over 500 people for not wearing masks in the city. Madkaikar said that the drive will continue with special attention being paid to places where people gather. “Cases are reducing in Goa and we want to maintain it that way. It cannot happen that because people don’t wear masks that cases rise again,” he said. The government has increased the fine for mask violations to Rs 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourist-lashes-out-at-ccp-staff-over-mask-penalty/articleshow/79500273.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi government cuts RT-PCR test rate by a third to Rs 800||NEW DELHI: Delhi government reduced the rate of an RT-PCR test from Rs 2,400 to Rs 800 from Monday evening. According to the order, issued following a directive by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Rs 1,200 will be charged for an RT-PCR test if the sample is collected at home, which will include charges for visit, sample collection and test. “I have directed that the rates of RT-PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in government establishments, however, this will help those who get their tests done in private labs (sic),” Kejriwal tweeted. Following the tweet, health minister Satyendar Jain issued an official instruction to his department to issue the order. The move is likely to increase the number of RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard for Covid-19 testing, in Delhi, which will help in early detection of the novel coronavirus infection, said a source. An RT-PCR test is far more accurate than a rapid antigen test, which is known to have around 60% accuracy. The order, which was signed by principal secretary of health Vikram Dev Dutt and came into effect immediately, superseded a previous order that had reduced the charge to Rs 2,400 from Rs 4,500. “Processing of samples, sharing the reports with the client and updation of all reports on ICMR portals will be ensured latest by 24 hours of collection of samples,” the order stated. All labs and hospitals have been directed to display the revised rates at a prominent place within 24 hours of the order. Welcoming the move, Dr Gauri Agarwal of Genestrings Lab said this might lead to a much larger percentage of the population opting for on-demand testing even as a precautionary step. “We’re looking to upgrade our infrastructure to handle higher volumes anticipated due to this price change. But we expect the government to ease the ICMR upload process and timeline as that will be a key resource crunch area as the number of tests increases,” said Dr Agarwal. Delhi government has significantly increased the number of daily Covid tests and more RT-PCR tests have been conducted since repeated directives of the high court. Towards the end of June, Delhi was conducting 8,000-9,000 RT-PCR tests daily, which has now increased to nearly 30,000. However, till now, Delhi’s charge for an RT-PCR test was on the higher side in the country, while the new order will place it among those in the lowest bracket. Watch Covid-19: CM Kejriwal issues direction to reduce RT-PCR test rates in national capital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-cuts-rt-pcr-test-rate-by-a-third-to-rs-800/articleshow/79500297.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 1, 2020||Lucknow||Burning of dry cane leaves alerts administration in UP||LUCKNOW: Even as the state government grapples with the burning of stubble by farmers leading to air pollution, the cane department has recorded cases of burning of cane leaves by farmers in various districts, including Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Kushinagar and Maharajganj. Cane commissioner Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that the department has sought explanation from district cane officers after receiving information of certain incidents of burning of dry cane leaves. He said instructions have been given to run extensive campaigns to make farmers aware in this regard. Bhoosreddy said that he has also directed all the district cane officers, deputy cane commissioners and sugar mills of the state to make farmers aware by organising seminars and farmer fairs, through pamphlets, wall paintings and newspapers regarding the effects of burning dry leaves. Instructions have also been given to provide equipment like trash mulcher through farm machinery banks to farmers who would be informed about prohibition of burning crop residue by the government by exercising power under sub-section-5 of section 19 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. It has also been emphasized to warn them against burning dry leaves. Bhoosreddy said the incidence of burning of dry sugarcane leaves and crop residues has decreased considerably this year as compared to previous years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/burning-of-dry-cane-leaves-alerts-administration-in-state/articleshow/79500786.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Rape accused kills self in Junagadh jail after test confirms his paternity||RAJKOT: A 35-year-old undertrial prisoner who was accused of rape hanged himself to death in Junagadh Central Jail on Sunday night after the paternity test confirmed that he was father of the child born to the minor rape survivor. Police said the deceased, Haresh Boghra, had been suffering from depression ever since his DNA report confirmed his paternity. He hanged himself from the ceiling of the lobby of the jail, using a muffler. Boghra had been lodged in the jail for the past six months after he was booked for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl and who later became pregnant. After the girl delivered a baby girl recently, the DNA tests of the infant and Boghra were conducted, which confirmed Boghra to be the father. “The jail inmates said that Boghra had sunk into depression and was expressing fear of getting a jail term in the case. This drove him to commit suicide,” said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police. Boghra had separated from his family after marrying a woman against the wishes of his family members a decade ago. No one from his family had approached to bail him out, which caused him to sink into depression. Meanwhile, the police have sent Boghra’s body for a forensic postmortem at GG Hospital in Jamnagar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rape-accused-kills-self-in-junagadh-jail-after-test-confirms-his-paternity/articleshow/79497578.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Deaths in city up 270%, cases 72% in second half of Nov||Ahmedabad: Comparing Covid data from the two halves of November for Ahmedabad city reveals that the city has reported a phenomenal increase in cases and deaths. Compared to 35 deaths from November 1 to 15, the city recorded 119 deaths in the second half of the month, a 270% rise. Case numbers rose by 72%, from 2,572 in the first half to 4,414 in the second half. Moreover, the city accounted for most of the district’s deaths and cases. Of 7,563 cases in the district, 6,986 or 92% were from the city. Of the 158 deaths in the district, 154 were from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/deaths-in-city-up-270-cases-72-in-second-half-of-nov/articleshow/79500296.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Fringe candidates may test Joshi and Wanjari||Nagpur: The voting for the Nagpur division graduates’ constituency would be held on Tuesday. By 5pm, the fate of BJP candidate Sandip Joshi and his Congress rival Abhijit Wanjari would be sealed. The counting will take place on Thursday. Voting will take place through the old-fashioned ballot papers as it is preferential type. The voter has to mark his or her first preference for a candidate by writing 1 against the candidate’s name. The voter can give second preference to another candidate by writing 2 against his name and so on. This constituency has been the bastion of BJP since more than 50 years. Baban Taywade of Congress tried to storm it unsuccessfully twice. This time Wanjari is trying his luck. Even though Wanjari is the official candidate of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), it is mostly Congress leaders, who are canvassing for him. Moreover, Congress leaders from outside Nagpur division have shown much interest in the election. On the other hand, BJP has pulled out all stops to win the election. While the candidate was decided at the last moment, the party was preparing for it since months. Union minister Nitin Gadkari, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar, former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and others have campaigned for Joshi. On Sunday, a grand meeting of graduate voters was held. It was addressed by Gadkari, Fadnavis and Mungantiwar. Wanjari is covertly playing the OBC card. He is a Teli while Joshi is a Brahmin. BJP is countering it by pointing out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a Teli, had finalized Joshi’s ticket. Teli leaders like Wardha MP Ramdas Tadas, former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, former MLA Charan Waghmare, etc have canvassed for Joshi. In a meeting of the Teli community, Tadas levelled serious allegations against the Wanjari family. BJP leaders point out that Taywade had twice played the OBC card but was unsuccessful. Wanjari owns a large number of educational institutes and he is using their machinery. The other major candidates in the fray are Rahul Wankhede of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA), Atul Khobragade, an independent supported by the Aam Admi Party (AAP) and Nitin Ronghe, who is contesting on the issue of statehood to Vidarbha. Wanjari’s fate depends to a large extent on the number of Dalit votes Wankhede and Khobragade poll. If Dalit voters favour either of the candidate then Wanjari will suffer. According to election experts there are 2.06 lakh voters in this constituency. Voting is expected to be around 50%. The candidate who polls 50,000 first preference votes will be safely home. HOW TO VOTE * Use violet sketch pen to be given along with ballot paper. * Do not use your own pen or pencil else vote will be deemed invalid * Write 1 in the box printed beside the name of the candidate you wish to vote for * If you wish to vote for another candidate too, write 2 in the box besides his name and so on * Do not give the same preference to two or more candidates. For example 1 or 2 should not be written besides two candidates * Preference has to be indicated in digits – 1, 2, 3, etc – and not words – one, two, three * Preference can be written in Arabic numbers, which are commonly used, Roman numbers or Marathi numbers * Do not sign or write your name on the ballot paper. It will become invalid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fringe-candidates-may-test-joshi-and-wanjari/articleshow/79500313.cms||Ashish Roy
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS doctor, first to get trial shot in 3rd phase, says there were no side-effects||NEW DELHI: India is among the few countries in the world to have isolated the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19. Now, it is on track to develop one of the cheapest vaccines, according to Dr M V Padma Srivastava, chief of neurosciences at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Last week, Dr Srivastava volunteered for the third phase of trial for Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine developed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in collaboration with Bharat Biotech. “I was the first to receive the trial shot in AIIMS, Delhi, last Thursday. I don't know whether I have received vaccine or placebo,” the neuroscience expert told TOI. Another shot will be given after 28 days.” The 55-year-old doctor added that she had not suffered any side-effect. Recently, there was a controversy when a participant in a test for another Covid-19 vaccine trial claimed to have had severe side-effects. AIIMS plans to enrol more than 1,000 volunteers for the third phase of the Covaxin trials. Sources said 40-50 volunteers have already registered and have even received the first shot of the indigenous Covid vaccine or placebos. “The third phase of the trials will have more than 26,000 participants across the country. It is the most important stage of trials and comes before the vaccine can be used to immunise people against the viral infection that has been plaguing the world for nearly nine months,” disclosed a senior doctor in the community medicine department of AIIMS. The doctor also revealed that the first and second phase of the trials for Covaxin had been completed and that it had been well tolerated by the test participants. Apart from Covaxin, there are other vaccines for Covid being developed, among them being those by Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca. “Unlike the other Covid vaccines, Covaxin is likely to be much cheaper,” claimed the doctor at AIIMS who is leading the vaccine trials. “Also, storage and transportation are going to be easier for India. This vaccine can be stored at a temperature of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius.” The other vaccines comparably require very low storage and transport temperatures. Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the Bharat Biotech facility in Genome Valley, Hyderabad, on Saturday and congratulated the scientists involved in the vaccine development project for their progress in the project. After the visit, the PM had tweeted, “At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress.” (We have updated the article)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-aiims-doctor-first-to-get-trial-shot-in-3rd-phase-says-there-were-no-side-effects/articleshow/79500395.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 1, 2020||India||File report on girl’s kidnapping, murder: NCPCR to Odisha||NEW DELHI: Taking cognisance of a complaint lodged by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra about the alleged kidnapping and murder of a minor girl in Nayagarh district in Odisha, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday directed the state government to submit a detailed report within 10 days. The commission directed the Odisha chief secretary to submit the birth certificate and the post-mortem report of the girl, besides the FIR copy along with the current status of the investigation and action taken by police against the accused. On Monday, Patra submitted a memorandum to the NCPCR chairperson seeking justice for the family of the minor girl who was murdered in July this year. Talking to the media, he said BJP has placed its demands to the NCPCR on two issues. “I prayed to NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo to form a team for a spot investigation to ascertain whether the vital organs of the minor girl have been removed and the alleged complicity of minister Arun Kumar Sahu in this incident,” Patra said. “I also requested her to summon the collector and SP of Nayagarh district to appear in person and clarify as to why there is an inordinate delay in the probe and why the parents of the victim made a suicide attempt in front of the state assembly,” he said. Meanwhile, sources said that the NCPCR has taken a strong view of the incident which smacks of a larger conspiracy including complicity of a senior politician. “The commission is going through details of the incident and there is a possibility that it will form a committee for spot verification,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/file-report-on-girls-kidnapping-murder-ncpcr-to-odisha/articleshow/79501662.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||Steel City Sikhs back farmers’ protest, plan agitation on Dec 2||Jamshedpur: As farmers’ unions continue to protest at the Delhi-Haryana border against the recently enacted farm laws by the Centre, the Sikh community here has come out in their support. The general secretary of Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Jaswir Singh, said the Union government should accept the farmers’ demands as they are the backbone of the country. City-based Pummy Singh hoped that the Centre will take a decision in favour of the farmers soon. Another local named Sukhdeo Singh said the entire Sikh community in and around Jamshedpur is sympathetic towards their cause. As a mark of their support, the Sikhs here are planning to demonstrate near Sakchi Gurdwara on December 2. Those participating in the protest have been asked to wear black turbans and black dupattas (for the women). The members of Guru Nanak Jayanti have responded to the request and decided to sport black turbans and dupattas on that day. Meanwhile, several social organizations and Left parties in Kolhan region have also shown their support to the farmers. The organizations have termed the new laws as black laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/steel-city-sikhs-back-farmers-protest-plan-agitation-on-dec-2/articleshow/79498881.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 1, 2020||Jamshedpur||Flight to link city with Ahmedabad for the 1st time, SpiceJet to start this month||RANCHI: Commercial airliner SpiceJet is all set to start flight operations from Birsa Munda International Airport from December 20. According to airport sources, SpiceJet is planning to start daily flights between New Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad and has started setting up its counter at city’s airport too. Talking to TOI, Birsa Munda international airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said: “We have received confirmation and the commercial airline has started setting up its office at the airport premises but we haven’t been confirmed about the date of launch of operations.” On being asked about the destinations and timing of the flights Sharma said: “We have been informed about the flights to New Delhi and Mumbai, but the timings and other details are yet to be confirmed by the airline.” Notably, SpiceJet had applied for starting the operations from Ranchi five years ago but the operations couldn’t take off. Now with the airline launching services from Ranchi flyers are hopeful that they will get connectivity to other cities that weren’t connected from Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/flight-to-link-city-with-ahmedabad-for-the-1st-time-spicejet-to-start-this-month/articleshow/79510278.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi admin hosts 50 health workers to luncheon, felicitates 5||Ranchi: As a token of appreciation for their hard work amid the unrelenting pandemic, the Ranchi administration took more than 50 health workers to popular tourist site Dassam Falls for a luncheon and felicitated five of them for exceptional contribution in fighting the virus on Monday. The idea, a brainchild of Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan, was also aimed at inspiring and refreshing the health workers for any second wave of the outbreak in the state, which has shown a declining trend of new infections and cases since last month. Speaking to the health workers at the luncheon, Ranjan said, “We cannot forget the service rendered by you in the past eight months. While your work is commendable, we must not forget that Covid-19 hasn’t disappeared and we must not let our guard down in the coming months.” Those felicitated included Dr Devesh Kumar (professor of community medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences), Ram Rekha Rai (sister in-charge at Rims), Dr Bimlesh Singh (medical officer at Ranchi sadar hospital), Dr Shashi Bhushan Khalko (district RCH officer), lab technician Nand Kumar Gokhale and ANM Pinky Hembrom. Talking to TOI, Ranjan said, “These frontline workers have worked relentlessly through the outbreak in Jharkhand. While everyone stayed at home, they sacrificed their holidays, forgoing the celebrations during the festive season and stayed away from their families to perform their duties. Often, these unsung heroes are overlooked and their efforts do not receive any recognition. We decided to host them for lunch as a morale booster.” The idea seemed to have served its purpose for the healthcare professionals’ commitment towards their job seems unchanged even after working continuously and tirelessly for the past nine months. Dr Devesh said, “It is a nice gesture from the administration and this will surely boost our morale. We have been working without a break and will continue to do so. As a public health expert, I would like to request everyone to continue maintaining all the safety norms.” Rai said, “I have been working at the Rims trauma centre and paying ward ever since the first case was registered in Ranchi on March 31 and we have attended to more than 500 Covid patients, including VIPs. We made sure that every patient received the best treatment possible. Although my confidence was a bit shaken when I contracted the virus a couple of months ago, I recovered and joined work again.” Dr Khalkho said he has been performing various kinds of duties in the pandemic. “Initially, we had to play multiple roles — from collecting data, arranging ambulances, ensuring the availability of doctors at all our centres — while making sure that none of us get infected as we were short-staffed. Now, after eight months, we have been able to control the spread and I am very happy about it. All of my colleagues have done their best and without their help, this wouldn’t have been possible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-admin-hosts-50-health-workers-to-luncheon-felicitates-5/articleshow/79500076.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||Cov toll reveals gaping gender divide||Ranchi: Nearly eight months after the outbreak of the pandemic in the state, certain trends are emerging. One such trend that has piqued the curiosity of health professionals and common citizens alike is the stark difference in the number of female and male deaths from the virus. Out of the 963 Covid-19 casualties reported in the state till November 29, 722 are men and 241 are women. Not just in terms of deaths, the number of male patients requiring hospitalisation is also higher. At the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), male to female ratio of patients in the Covid ward is 75 to 25. Similarly, the share of women patients at the Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Super Speciality hospital is around 20%. A professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims, Dr Devesh, said: “There is no wonder that the number of male casualties is higher because around 80% of the patients are male.” The public relations manager at Medica Hospital, Anand Srivastava, said that of the 8,300 Covid tests conducted at the hospital so far, the samples collected from women number around 2,800, which accounts for 34% of the total samples. “Lesser number of samples from women clearly indicates that this section of the population must have shown fewer or milder symptoms on a comparative scale,” he said. Corroborating the observations, ENT specialist and neck and skull surgeon Dr Abhishek Kumar Ramadhin said that female hormones — oestrogen and progesterone — are known as cardio protectors. “Women in their pre-menopausal stage are less prone to cardiac complications and hence they are less vulnerable to Covid,” he said, adding that the ratio of women to men patients through out the world is low. He said that there can be instances where women, too, got infected but since their cases did not aggravate, fewer among them turned up at the hospitals for treatment. However, the state unit of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), which is mandated to manage records of infection, does not have have gender-specific data at the moment. “In the early days of the outbreak, we were maintaining records of tests conducted with gender details. But with the increase in the number of cases, such detailed records are available only with the districts,” the head of IDSP Jharkhand, Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, said. Dr Karn added that the number of male patients was significantly higher as a large number of returning male migrants tested positive. A detailed study of gender-based infection and positivity rate might throw some light on the way the virus treats its host, based on their gender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-toll-reveals-gaping-gender-divide/articleshow/79498776.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||Elephant corpse found in Seraikela||An adult elephant’s corpse was found in the early hours of Monday at Chatardih forest in Nimdih in Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The villagers, who found the body, said both its tusks were missing. Nimdih police station in-charge Ras Bihar Yadav said a team has been sent to the forest to look into the matter. “The mutilated body suggests that the animal was killed at least 20 days ago,” 40-year-old Chetanya Singh Munda, a resident of Sirum village that is located near Chatardih forest, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/elephant-corpse-found-in-seraikela/articleshow/79500039.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||Flight to link city with Ahmedabad for the 1st time, SpiceJet to start this month||RANCHI: Commercial airliner SpiceJet is all set to start flight operations from Birsa Munda International Airport from December 20. According to airport sources, SpiceJet is planning to start daily flights between New Delhi, Mumbai and Ahmedabad and has started setting up its counter at city’s airport too. Talking to TOI, Birsa Munda international airport director Vinod Kumar Sharma said: “We have received confirmation and the commercial airline has started setting up its office at the airport premises but we haven’t been confirmed about the date of launch of operations.” On being asked about the destinations and timing of the flights Sharma said: “We have been informed about the flights to New Delhi and Mumbai, but the timings and other details are yet to be confirmed by the airline.” Notably, SpiceJet had applied for starting the operations from Ranchi five years ago but the operations couldn’t take off. Now with the airline launching services from Ranchi flyers are hopeful that they will get connectivity to other cities that weren’t connected from Ranchi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/flight-to-link-city-with-ahmedabad-for-the-1st-time-spicejet-to-start-this-month/articleshow/79500182.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||Most Cov patients in Pakur district exist only on paper||Ranchi: Almost two dozen patients infected with Covid-19 in Pakur, the only district in Jharkhand with a cumulative Covid caseload lower than 1,000, seem to have been battling the new disease for more than a month, data released by the state government every day suggests. However, district officials said these patients belong to the district only on paper and are not at any hospital or care centre here as they could be getting treated elsewhere in the state or the country. As per the figures maintained by the National Health Mission (NHM) state’s unit of, Pakur had 58 active cases as of Sunday night, but through November, the district recorded 21 new infections, 14 recoveries and zero deaths. The data makes it obvious that at least 23 patients still being shown as active have been infected last month. While health experts say that remaining infected for such a long time would put one in hospital, if not ICU, district officials said not a single patient here is admitted to a healthcare institution within the district and it is likely that they are not even physically present here. Talking to TOI, Pakur civil surgeon Dr Ramdeo Paswan said: “We believe that there is a glitch in the number of active cases reported in the bulletin. This is happening because of migrants workers from here who are providing their permanent address while getting tested in different parts of the country. People submit their Aadhaar cards as address proof at testing labs and the national health portal captures them as a Covid case in Pakur. We have written to the state NHM on three occasions to correct the figures, but we have not had any response from them.” When contacted, state NHM officials said the error is due to various reasons – mand main among them data is collected from various sources and submitted to NHP and ICMR simultaneously. “There have been many cases in which a person living in Mumbai or another city uses his Aadhaar card issued in Jharkhand and the national portals adds him up to the district count. We have already requested the IT people in New Delhi to correct the figure. On our part, we will rectify the number today (Monday),” Dr Praveen Karn, state IDSP head, said. Meanwhile, while Pakur is the least affected district with just 889 infections recoreded till date, this error seems to be making it the worst as far as the recovery rate is concerned. With two deaths and 829 recoveries, the district has a cure rate of 93.25%, while the figure for all other 23 districts are above 96%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/most-cov-patients-in-pakur-district-exist-only-on-paper/articleshow/79498868.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||JMM, Cong set to raise Sarna code demand in Parliament||Ranchi: Partners in the ruling mahagathbandhan, JMM and Congress will make an effort for the implementation of Sarna Code through the Parliament. JMM said a party delegation will meet Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla when the Parliament is convened next. “The delegation will meet the Speaker and urge him to introduce a proposal for the implementation of Sarna Code nationwide,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya told reporters on Sunday. JMM has one MP in Lok Sabha in Vijay Kumar Hansdak from Rajmahal parliamentary constituency. In Rajya Sabha, it has one MP in Shibu Soren. Jharkhand Congress working president Rajesh Thakur said: “A delegation under state chief Rameshwar Oraon and AICC’s Jharkhand in charge RPN Singh will meet senior Congress leadership and urge them to bring up the matter in Parliament. The delegation will leave for the national capital once the state president returns to work.” Oraon is currently recuperating at home after recovering from Covid 19. On November 11, Jharkhand Assembly had unanimously passed a House resolution seeking a separate code for Adivasis practicing Sarna religious faith and sent it to the Center. While tabling the resolution, the government had said a religious code will present an exact number of Sarna followers, can help document the population of tribal people, preservation of tribal language, culture and history and help them avail their Constitutional rights (under the 5th schedule) and benefits under the tribal sub plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-cong-set-to-raise-sarna-code-demand-in-parliament/articleshow/79498735.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||‘Procurement centres should be opened in first week of Dec’||Hazaribag: CPI state general secretary B P Mehta on Monday urged the Jharkhand government to open the government-run procurement centres in the first week of December itself as harvesting season for paddy has already begun. The centres will provide the farmers with a platform to sell their produce at minimum support price (MSP). Speaking to media persons here on Monday, he said, “In the absence of procurement centres, the farmers are forced to sell their paddy output at throwaway prices in Hazaribag, Ramgarh and other places.” Usually these centres open in the second week of December but because harvesting season began on time this year because of timely onset of monsoon, he urged the government to open them at the earliest in order to prevent the farmers from getting duped by middlemen. “The pandemic has resulted in a lot of hardships for farmers and if they don’t get the right price for their crops, they will further suffer financial woes,” he said. Asked about the farmers’ agitation in Delhi against the new farm laws, he said, “The new laws are anti-farmers.” He criticised the Centre for using lathis on the protesters. “Use of force to thwart their protest has exposed the NDA government’s so-called seriousness towards the cause of farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/procurement-centres-should-be-opened-in-first-week-of-dec/articleshow/79498606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 1, 2020||Ranchi||167 new cases in state, toll touches 964||Ranchi: Jharkhand recorded 167 new Covid infections, 288 recoveries and one death (from Dhanbad) on Monday. As per government data, as many as 1,09,151 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,06,171 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.26%. While the number of active cases fell to 2,016, the toll through the pandemic touched 964. Of the 24 districts, 14 reported fresh infections in single digit while Chatra, Godda, Gumla Khunti and Koderma reporting none. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported the highest, with 59 and 22 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/167-new-cases-in-state-toll-touches-964/articleshow/79500008.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 1, 2020||India||Those in forces deserve special treatment: Delhi high court||NEW DELHI: Members of the armed forces, who take the oath of laying down their lives for the country, deserve special treatment and are not to be “made ping pong of” when seeking relief, the Delhi high court has said. HC also observed that the oath required to be taken by the President, Vice-President, governors of states or by judges of the Supreme Court and the HCs does not require them to lay down their lives in the service of the country while it is only the members of the armed forces who are required to do so under the Constitution and other laws to take an oath of abiding by the command issued to them by the President or any officer set over them, even at the peril of their lives. The reminder to all stakeholders came from a bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon while hearing a batch of 40 petitions challenging an order issued by the ministry of defence (MoD) granting the benefit of pro rata pension only to commissioned officers of the defence services and not to the non-commissioned Officers (NCOs)/Persons Below Officer Rank (PBORs). The petitioners — NCOs/ PBORs who joined the Indian Air Force (IAF) as airmen/ corporals — argued through advocate Pallavi Awasthi, who said the MoD’s order is discriminatory and claimed pro rata pension. HC allowed the petitions and directed the IAF to pay the petitioners within 12 weeks arrears of pro rata pension from the date of discharge till the date of payment. It said the future pro rata pension shall be paid from March 2021 to them and made it clear that if the arrears are not paid within 12 weeks, it will also carry an interest at 7 per cent per annum from the expiry of 12 weeks till the date of payment. Pro rata pension is the proportionate pension for the government service which is calculated as per the government pension rules. The bench said, “Members of a force, who take oath of laying down their lives for the country, form a distinct class and deserve special treatment. They are not to be harassed unnecessarily and made ping pong of, by sending them from one forum of adjudication to another.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/those-in-forces-deserve-special-treatment-delhi-high-court/articleshow/79501672.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's coldest November since birth of Indian Republic||NEW DELHI: This November, Delhiites experienced the coldest nights in any November month since India became a Republic in 1950. The month's mean minimum temperature, 10.2 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung, equalled the lowest post-1947 mean for November recorded in 1949. The last time Delhi had seen colder nights/early mornings during November was way back in 1938, when the mean minimum was 9.6 degrees Celsius. The mean minimum is the average of the daily minimum temperatures recorded during a month. The normal mean miminum for November is 12.9 degrees C. There were as many as four cold wave days in the month, the highest for November in at least four decades. Met officials said cloudless skies, chilly northerly winds in the second half of the month as well as larger global influences such as La Nina conditions in the Pacific all played a part in making it an exceptionally cold month. A met official said while nights have been unusually cold, days were warm. The average maximum temperature in November was 27.9 degrees C, close to the normal of 28.2 degrees. In November, the city received very light rain on just one day, November 16. Lack of cloud cover kept min temp lowThe last rain spell in the capital was on September 8 while the monsoon withdrew on September 25. Experts said the minimum temperature has been low this month mainly due to the lack of cloud cover which made days warm but allowed the heat to quickly dissipate at night. “Delhi has mostly seen clear skies in the last two months. The absence of cloud cover makes the day warm while the heat quickly dissipates at night which causes fall in temperature,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. Met officials said the other reason behind low minimum temperatures was the wind direction, which was mostly northerly in the second-half of November, bringing in the chill from the western Himalayan region. As calm winds prevailed on most nights, it led to a further decrease in minimum temperatures. On November 23, the national capital recorded the lowest minimum temperature since 2003 in penultimate month at 6.3 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 6.9 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal. The maximum temperature stood at 26.8 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. A met official said the minimum temperature is likely to remain at 7 to 9 degrees Celsius in the next five days. The maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 27 degrees Celsius in the next five days. According to seasonal outlook for December 2020 to February 2021, released by IMD on Sunday, nights and early mornings are likely to be colder than usual. Watch Delhi records coldest November since birth of Indian Republic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-coldest-november-since-birth-of-indian-republic/articleshow/79501689.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 1, 2020||India||Cyclone to cause heavy rainfall in Tamil Nadu, Kerala: IMD||NEW DELHI: A fresh low-pressure area, formed over the Bay of Bengal after landfall of cyclone ‘Nivar’, is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm of low intensity and cross the Sri Lankan coast on Wednesday evening, bringing heavy rainfall to India’s southernmost parts, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. After crossing the Sri Lankan coast, the cyclone will move westwards and emerge into the Comorin area on Thursday morning, the agency added. The system, according to the IMD’s forecasts on Monday, will bring heavy to very heavy rainfall over south Tamil Nadu and south Kerala and adjoining areas during December 2-4. Though it will not be severe like ‘Nivar’ which hit India’s coast near Puducherry last week, the agency has advised fishermen not to venture into south-east and adjoining south-west Bay of Bengal from Tuesday night and into south-west Bay of Bengal, along and off the east Sri Lanka coast, Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu-Kerala coasts from Wednesday noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyclone-to-cause-heavy-rainfall-in-tamil-nadu-kerala-imd/articleshow/79501688.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Noida||Noida: In 3 years, solvers’ gang got 100 government and police jobs||NOIDA: A racket providing ‘expert’ exam writers managed to get at least 100 candidates who availed of its services qualification for government jobs, and all of them are now working in different government departments as well as Delhi Police and Haryana Police, an investigation by Noida police has found so far. The racket was unearthed over the weekend with the arrest of nine suspects, including a man who police said had qualified for an assistant section officer job in the defence ministry and was waiting for an appointment letter, and two Delhi Police constables. Police have subsequently made two more arrests – the owner and superintendent of an exam centre in Delhi’s Mundka that hosted various tests, including those for government jobs and banks. The accused, police said, used face blender apps to sneak the solvers into the exam hall in place of the candidate without raising suspicion – the final photo had some features of the candidate but some of the impersonator too. The racket, operating for at least three years, according to police, charged anything between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 35 lakh for its services, going by the weight of the exam. While there were around 10-15 solvers used by the racket, police have identified an income-tax inspector Ravi, a former I-T inspector Mudit Kanojia, and Arvind Singh, who is allegedly an assistant section officer in a central ministry, as the masterminds. The first arrests were that of three solvers – Arpit, Dinesh Chaudhary and Aman – from a centre hosting an exam for Delhi Police selections at Sector 62 in Noida. They led the cops to the others: Dinesh Prajapati (the man who was expecting to join the MoD), Ravindra Kumar and Manjeet Singh (Delhi Police constables) and four others. The two who ran the exam centre ‘TMC’ in Mundka were identified as Manoj Singh and Praveen, residents of Charkhi Dadri and Jind, in Haryana. The duo, according to police, had siphoned off the money they earned from the racket. The centre had allegedly been operational since August 2019. Noida police said it will notify Delhi Police for the blacklisting of the centre, where an Indian Oil exam was to be held in December. Manoj Singh is the brother-in-law of Dinesh Chaudhary, one of the nine accused arrested on Saturday. Praveen would arrange for the solvers. His main solver was Aman, a Jhajjar resident. ACP Rajnish Kumar told TOI Aman had cleared SSC/CGL (combined graduate level) and stayed in Mukherjee Nagar. “Praveen would hire Aman as the main solver. He is the cousin of Delhi Police constable Manjeet, who was arrested on Saturday. Police will write to the concerned authority for blacklisting of the centre for usage in government exams,” Kumar said, adding, “They had been pitching for holding the exam (for Indian Oil) in their centre and had been looking for applicants and solvers.” DCP (Noida) Rajesh S said police have found photographs of 70-80 people, including applicants, in data recovered from devices of the accused were using. The roles of a photo mixing lab and a Ballabhgarh-based shopkeeper engaged in forging driving licences are also being investigated. Police are seeking help from cyber experts and the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL), Ghaziabad, to verify pictures of the accused made through the multi-face blender application combining 50% features of the applicant with 50% of the solver to create a picture resembling both. Delhi Police has expelled the two constables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-3-years-solvers-gang-got-100-government-and-police-jobs/articleshow/79500456.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 1, 2020||Nagpur||Recoveries outnumber new cases in Vid again||Nagpur: After reporting almost equal number of new cases versus recoveries, a marked difference was seen as Vidarbha’s 11 districts witnessed 1,012 Covid patients getting discharged while 852 catching the infection. At the same time, no Covid death was reported from five districts. Of the 28 deaths in the region, Nagpur (18), Wardha (1), Gondia (1) Chandrapur (3), Gadchiroli (4), Amravati (1) took the tally to 6,044. The day’s cases were from Nagpur (288), Bhandara (61), Wardha (23), Gondia (75), Chandrapur (193), Gadchiroli (25), Akola (31), Amaravati (73), Yavatmal (19), Buldhana (55) and Washim (9) taking the total to 2,26,974. Similarly, of the 1012 cases, Nagpur reported 322, Bhandara (86), Wardha (33), Gondia (124), Chandrapur (103), Gadchiroli (119), Akola (14), Amaravati (80), Yavatmal (28), Buldhana (86) and Washim (17) for a total of 2,08,847. Now, 12,083 patients are under treatment. At Nagpur, two flyers were found positive after getting tested as part of the state SOP for people returning from hotspots. None of the 1,313 screened railway passengers was found doubtful except four who tested negative. Gadchiroli: Four deaths were reported on Monday. New cases count increased by 25 while 119 recoveries were reported. The district now has 614 active cases while total cases are 7,940. So far, 83 have succumbed to the disease while 7,243 defeated Covid and declared recovered. Washim: The district didn’t report a death and reported the lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 9, along with 17 recoveries. The death toll is 148. The new cases took the tally to 6,166, discharged rose the count to 5,783 while 235 patients are active. Buldhana: No death was reported in the district while 19 new cases and 28 recoveries were recorded. According to official data, the district now has 11,261 cases, 10,780 recoveries, 134 deaths and 347 active cases. Bhandara: The district didn’t report any death. There were 61 new cases and 86 recoveries on Monday. The district has 959 active cases. Total caseload is 10,770 and 9,559 discharged patients. Death toll stood at 252. Gondia: The district witnessed one death, 124 recoveries and 75 new cases. The number of patients under treatment remained above the 1,000-mark at 1,076. The new cases took the tally to 12,442. The death toll so far is 161 and 11,205 recoveries. Akola: The district reported 31 new cases, 14 recoveries and no death. The case tally climbed to 9,416. So far, 293 people have died here. With the new recoveries, the tally touched 8,481. Still, 642 are active patients. Yavatmal: The district did not report any death for the second consecutive day. However, 19 new cases of the 120 test reports were recorded. Currently, there are 504 active patients in Covid care centres in the district. Total 28 patients recovered and were discharged. The caseload has reached 11,519 of which 10644 have recovered. Amravati: A spike of 73 cases and a death took the district's caseload to 17,886 and toll to 377. Recovery of 80 patients took the total to 17,053. There are now 456 active cases in the district. Wardha: A 60-year-old woman from Wardha died while new 23 patients were reported positive. Total 33 patients were discharged after recovery. The caseload of the district has reached 7,861. The new cases were reported from Wardha (17), Arvi (3), Hinganghat (2) and Deoli (1). The recoveries have reached 7,100. Total 249 have dies so far while active patients under treatment are 512. Chandrapur: There were 193 new cases, while 103 patients got discharge from hospitals and isolation on Monday. With three more deaths reported during the day, the toll crossed the 300-mark to stand at 302. The caseload of the district has now risen to 19,948. Total recoveries stand at 17,832, leaving 1,814 active cases under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-vid-again/articleshow/79499025.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 1, 2020||India||2-yr Kerala bar on PwC, which had employed Swapna Suresh||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala government has barred consulting major PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) from undertaking projects under the IT department in the state for the next two years for its failure to ensure due diligence in the deployment of resources. It was PwC that had engaged Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, as an employee for the Space Park project under Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL). A two-member committee consisting of chief secretary Vishwas Mehta and additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh had found that Swapna was appointed on the reference of M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the CM. Later, it was revealed that she did not have the qualification required for the post and that her certificates had been forged. “PwC did not perform a comprehensive background check. This is a serious breach of contractual obligations on the part of PwC,” the government order said. KSITL had entered into an agreement with PwC for a term of two years; the term ended on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-yr-kerala-bar-on-pwc-which-had-employed-swapna-suresh/articleshow/79501720.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||Q3 should see further boost to manufacturing: Niti Aayog VC||NITI Aayog vice chairman Rajiv Kumar believes that higher public spending will boost private investment. In an interview, he tells TOI that the economy will grow in the fourth quarter and the performance-linked incentive scheme (PLI) will help boost exports. Excerpts: How do you view the latest GDP numbers?It has come as a pleasant surprise since we were all expecting the decline to be steeper. It shows the economic activity recovered very quickly as the lockdown was eased. The most pleasant surprise is the manufacturing sector registering a 0.6% increase, while the decline being 39.3% in the first quarter. If you look at the core sector data, it shows it is consumer goods and consumer durables that have done better. What we need to look at is how come the IIP numbers, which were declining, and how the GDP data have diverged. That is also a pointer to a thorough review and revamp of the statistical system. IIP comes from an administrative ministry, DPIIT, and this is CSO data. We need to reconcile it. There are questions over the data and therefore its sustainability. How do you view it?In October, manufacturing data will be better, due to festival demand. In November and December, there will be an improvement given that private final consumption has remained in negative territory and a good kharif output. Third quarter should see a further improvement in manufacturing — two-wheelers, tractors, consumer durables etc will do well. And, will sustain in fourth quarter. What’s your assessment for the full year?We’ll do better than what RBI has projected (9.5% decline). Most economists have revised their forecast for the year. How much of a worry is inflation?Not a big worry since it is largely contained to food and fuel and it is not getting generalised. Given the excess capacity in the system, why shouldn’t there be a very good response. What are the challenges? Is this pent-up demand and will things slide now?The biggest challenge is the continued negative gross capital formation, especially private investment not yet getting triggered. Unless that happens, running on consumption demand is like firing on one engine. For private investment to improve, public capital expenditure will play a major role. The concern is still very low credit offtake from the banking sector and much more going to personal loans. That requires the government to look at where are the possibilities of improving public expenditure and in areas which have short gestation period, which will help improve productivity. What could these areas be?You can pick up some export sectors and provide logistics support. For instance, expand the capacity at ports with long waiting time. We can put up offgrid solar systems on MSME clusters that are facing power problems. All these steps should be taken up on a mission mode to improve productivity. After the 2008 financial crisis, China also suffered but it ramped up its public expenditure. In the next 10 years, they expanded high-speed railway tracks by 27,000 km. The contracts for high-speed trains in India can create a buzz. What is your view on the RBI report advocating banking licences to corporates?The issue that I want to raise is the issue that has been raised by K V Kamath, which is that debt to GDP ratio in India remains very low and has to be ramped up. The total asset to GDP ratio is 70%, it’s 170% in China. Now, if you want to grow at double-digit rates, where do you find resources of bank finance, not everything can be financed by equity. So, the question is that all those who are criticising this have an onus on them to say where do they see the financial resources being provided to finance the growth, that you must have if you want to grow at the rates that you want to do? Is there any plan to expand the PLI scheme beyond the specified sectors and how do you view criticism that it is protectionist?Already, 13 sectors are covered, which is quite enough. This should not be seen as part of creating a protectionist, self-sufficient market. There is emphasis to have global scale, capacity and global competitiveness. What we are looking for is that you have a capacity which is globally-benchmarked and you are globally competitive. These units will take part in a big way in the export effort. In case of mobile phones, for instance, some of the manufacturers may export 60% of the production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/q3-should-see-further-boost-to-manufacturing-niti-aayog-vc/articleshow/79501744.cms||Sidhartha
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 23 Christians convert at ‘ghar wapsi’ event||KARWAR: Twenty-three people from five Christian families in Haliyal taluk converted to Hinduism in the presence of BJP MP Anant Kumar Hegde, in an event described by saffron outfits as “ghar wapsi” (homecoming) and voluntary action. At the function held in Haliyal town on Sunday, the Uttara Kannada MP and former BJP MLA Suneel Hegde handed over the saffron flag to those who converted. “Most of these families are poor and have no knowledge of conversion to other religions,” Suneel Hegde said. “The conversion of the Dalits and tribals to Christianity will be opposed tooth and nail. More such people will be brought back to the Hindu fold. I request those who are converting Hindus to desist, else they will face the repercussions,” he added. Most of those who converted are Dalits. They realised it was a ‘mistake’t the event, they said they Ahad converted to Christianity for various reasons but have realised it was a “mistake” and “returned” to Hindu religion. Suneel Hegde said the local BJP unit was in touch with the families and persuaded them to convert. “They agreed and a homa was conducted. The families re-entered the Hindu religion after the ceremony.” The former MLA said Anant Kumar Hegde will lead the “ghar wapsi” campaign and raise awareness against the conversion of poor people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/23-christians-convert-at-ghar-wapsi-event/articleshow/79501427.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||No suicide bid, took tablets by mistake: BS Yediyurappa’s political secretary||BENGALURU: Soon after being discharged from hospital on Monday, NR Santosh, the political secretary of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, denied that he had tried to die by suicide, and said he had ended up overdosing on some other tablets by mistake. Opposition Congress maintained its demand for a probe into the matter. “The attempt to suicide theory is nothing but speculation. I was unwell mostly due to indigestion after attending a marriage feast and ended up wrongly consuming some other tablets. My wife panicked and shifted me to hospital,” said the 31-year-old, who is also the CM’s grandnephew. Santosh was admitted to MS Ramaiah Hospital by his family members on the night of November 27 amid reports that he had swallowed several sleeping pills. On state Congress president DK Shivakumar’s claims that a video could have been the trigger for the suicide attempt and a probe was needed, Santosh said, “The Congress leader appears to have lost his mental balance after the defeats suffered by his party in the recent bypolls. They are also the outcome of recent raids on him by central agencies.” “During those raids, he had managed to gather 200-300 supporters outside his residence. But he must bear in mind that whenever he makes such baseless allegations, lakhs of people can come out in support of our leader BS Yediyurappa.” Santosh was under pressure, probe must to clear air: DKSShivakumar must look at his colleague-former chief minister Siddaramaiah and learn how to be responsible,” Santosh added. Santosh’s claims came even as an FIR has been registered by Sadashivanagar police against him, under section 309 of IPC for attempt to suicide. “The MLC notice mentioned that Santosh had consumed 12 sleeping pills at a time. Prima facie, it looks like Santosh, for some reason, attempted suicide . We are registering a suo motu case against Santosh under IPC section 309 and initiated legal action,” the suo motu FIR read. Reiterating his demand for an inquiry, Shivakumar said, “There is political pressure on Santhosh and that is evident in the manner in which BJP is trying to cover it up. What his wife (Jahnavi) has said is the truth and only when the truth is probed can you get to the bottom of it. The government should order an independent probe and clear the air at the earliest. Why are they afraid when they have no role to play (in the suicide bid)? Shivakumar said Jahnavi had mentioned soon after Santosh was hospitalised that he was under “tremendous pressure over recent political disturbances”. “He is no ordinary personal assistant, but political secretary to the CM. To save face, they (BJP) will try to make him say anything,” the state Congress chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-suicide-bid-took-tablets-by-mistake-bsys-political-secy/articleshow/79501432.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||'Section 288' in Ghazipur: Will not allow cops||NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: The fifth day of protests at UP Gate saw many more groups of farmers joining the agitation from Baghpat and as far as Uttarakhand. The protesters, who want the three agriculture laws recently passed by the Parliament withdrawn, grew restive as the day progressed and made multiple attempts to cross over to the capital. They were, however, sent back each time as the Delhi Police tightened its security at the Ghazipur border and added a fourth layer of barricade. Several cement barricades were also placed at the entry point so that the protesters could not move them. On Sunday, too, the protesting farmers had made at least three attempts to cross over to Delhi, but to no avail. They said they would not budge an inch from UP Gate and would even choke the Loni border if the government did not initiate talks with them. A second round of ministerial talks is scheduled on December 3. The morning routine on Monday was no different for the farmers at UP Gate. They woke up around 5am, took bath in the mobile washrooms that the Ghaziabad administration had set up for them, cooked and ate breakfast, and then started their protest march towards Delhi. Since it was Guru Nanak Jayanti on Monday, many farmers sang hymns and kirtans. It was around 8am that the agitators first tried to break and climb over the barricades and enter Delhi, but were stopped by the huge force of police that had been stationed there. The second attempt was made two hours later around 10am. This time, too, the farmers had to retreat. In the evening, around 5.30pm, the protesters again attempted to enter the capital. They had heated exchanges with the police and were sent back. A senior officer of Delhi Police said over 300 cops had been deployed to stop the farmers at the Ghazipur border alone. "They were trying to barge into the capital after every two or three hours. But we managed to send them back each time," he added. Rajvir Singh, vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said they were waiting for December 3, when talks with the government are scheduled. "But if the government does not initiate talks, we will block each and every lane of NH-24, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and all other important highways. Other farmer outfits will chock every road leading to Delhi," he added. Rakesh Tikait, another BKU leader, said more farmers would join the protest from other parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. "We still stay here unless the government talks to us and amend the laws. We expect more farmers to come in over the next few days. If the police can impose Section 144, we will impose Section 288. We will protest on our side and the cops can't come here," he added. Song, dance & foodOn Sunday night, the protest site at UP Gate resembled nothing less than a picnic ground. The farmers who were shouting slogans against the government in the morning were singing folk songs and some were even dancing to the tunes. While one group of farmers made tea and cooked dinner, another batch sat in line and ate the food together. To end on a sweet note, all were given a dollop of jaggery kheer each after dinner. The Ghaziabad administration had cleaned the area and fogging was done too at UP Gate. Mobile toilets were also set up for the protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/section-288-in-ghazipur-will-not-allow-cops/articleshow/79501787.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 1, 2020||Delhi||'Section 288' in Ghazipur: Will not allow cops||NEW DELHI/GHAZIABAD: The fifth day of protests at UP Gate saw many more groups of farmers joining the agitation from Baghpat and as far as Uttarakhand. The protesters, who want the three agriculture laws recently passed by the Parliament withdrawn, grew restive as the day progressed and made multiple attempts to cross over to the capital. They were, however, sent back each time as the Delhi Police tightened its security at the Ghazipur border and added a fourth layer of barricade. Several cement barricades were also placed at the entry point so that the protesters could not move them. On Sunday, too, the protesting farmers had made at least three attempts to cross over to Delhi, but to no avail. They said they would not budge an inch from UP Gate and would even choke the Loni border if the government did not initiate talks with them. A second round of ministerial talks is scheduled on December 3. The morning routine on Monday was no different for the farmers at UP Gate. They woke up around 5am, took bath in the mobile washrooms that the Ghaziabad administration had set up for them, cooked and ate breakfast, and then started their protest march towards Delhi. Since it was Guru Nanak Jayanti on Monday, many farmers sang hymns and kirtans. It was around 8am that the agitators first tried to break and climb over the barricades and enter Delhi, but were stopped by the huge force of police that had been stationed there. The second attempt was made two hours later around 10am. This time, too, the farmers had to retreat. In the evening, around 5.30pm, the protesters again attempted to enter the capital. They had heated exchanges with the police and were sent back. A senior officer of Delhi Police said over 300 cops had been deployed to stop the farmers at the Ghazipur border alone. "They were trying to barge into the capital after every two or three hours. But we managed to send them back each time," he added. Rajvir Singh, vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said they were waiting for December 3, when talks with the government are scheduled. "But if the government does not initiate talks, we will block each and every lane of NH-24, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and all other important highways. Other farmer outfits will chock every road leading to Delhi," he added. Rakesh Tikait, another BKU leader, said more farmers would join the protest from other parts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. "We still stay here unless the government talks to us and amend the laws. We expect more farmers to come in over the next few days. If the police can impose Section 144, we will impose Section 288. We will protest on our side and the cops can't come here," he added. Song, dance & foodOn Sunday night, the protest site at UP Gate resembled nothing less than a picnic ground. The farmers who were shouting slogans against the government in the morning were singing folk songs and some were even dancing to the tunes. While one group of farmers made tea and cooked dinner, another batch sat in line and ate the food together. To end on a sweet note, all were given a dollop of jaggery kheer each after dinner. The Ghaziabad administration had cleaned the area and fogging was done too at UP Gate. Mobile toilets were also set up for the protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/section-288-in-ghazipur-will-not-allow-cops/articleshow/79501763.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 1, 2020||World||Executive, executioner: Trump goes on killing spree in final weeks||In the dying days of his hate-filled regime, Donald Trump has embarked on a killing spree — signing into law the authorisation to use methods other than a lethal injection to execute prisoners. His administration has fast-tracked five executions. The Washington Post has described it as a “sickening spree of executions” by the US justice department. Already, the federal government has executed eight prisoners since July. In contrast, only three federal executions took place over the past 50 years, the Post says. The New York Times says this will be “one of the deadliest periods in the history of federal capital punishment since at least 1927.” In the US, both the states and the federal government authorise executions, but federal executions have become rare, and there has been none in the transition phase after the presidential elections since 1884. The Trump administration’s push for executions now contrasts with President-elect Joe Biden’s strong opposition to the death penalty, and it is possible that the newly approved methods of federal execution may never be used. CNN reports that four of the five inmates scheduled for execution will die by lethal injection. The fifth’s mode of execution is yet to be decided. At present, 54 prisoners are on federal death row and the next execution is scheduled for December 10. If the execution of Lisa Montgomery goes forward as planned on January 12, she will be the first woman to be executed by the US federal government in 70 years. The justice department’s expanded list of killing methods includes firing squad, electrocution, or “any other manner prescribed by the law of the state in which the sentence was imposed”, or the law of the state designated by a court to carry out the sentence. The rule will come into force at the end of December. Experts say the rule is meant to avoid delays in execution on the plea that a lethal injection is not available. After a string of botched executions, states have struggled to obtain the drugs needed for execution. While earlier, federal executions were carried out by means of three drugs, the US Supreme Court in June allowed execution with a single chemical: pentobarbital. Activists have argued that using pentobarbital alone can subject a person to painful death by flooding their lungs with fluid but their protests have been ignored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/executive-executioner-trump-goes-on-killing-spree-in-final-weeks/articleshow/79501807.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||IITs see huge rush in recruiters, but US placements may drop||MUMBAI: California-based IT giant Cohesity may offer the highest pay packet of US$ 2,00,000 at some IITs this placement season. However, number of US profiles offered on the campuses may drop, with leading recruiters from last year - Microsoft and Uber - likely to offer only Indian jobs. The first phase of interviews will start Tuesday in the virtual format. Despite the pandemic and a global slowdown, leading IITs are hoping to meet placement targets. At IIT-Bombay, US offers are expected from Cohesity and HiLabs and trading firm Optiver has an Amsterdam opening. Almost 550 companies have registered for placements, including those that made pre-placement offers (PPOs). Among global recruiters, there are more Japanese and Taiwanese firms than US, said students. The institute also has some core companies offering IT-related profiles. "While number of firms registered with the institute is not affected significantly due to the pandemic, we will have to see how many offers are eventually made in the first few days," said a student. Another said a slow economy, visa issues and government policies had anyway affected recruitment by US firms in the recent past; the pandemic has only added to the problem. "Profiles with larger packages are not viable for work-from-home," he added. Firms offering Indian profiles with pay packets between Rs 25 to Rs 37 lakh per annum include Morgan Stanley, Uber, Microsoft and Flipkart. Others visiting (virtually) include Sony Japan, Honda, Huawei Technologies, Cube Research, Schlumberger, Zomato, etc. "We also have companies with job locations in Singapore and Hong Kong. Interestingly, some of them are offering compensation in US dollars and not their local currency so as to acquire top talent," said another IIT-B student. At IIT Madras, as on November 27, 252 companies had registered for the placements. The corresponding number last year was 242. As many as 182 pre-placement offers were made to IIT-M students this year as against 170 offers in 2019-20. A placement office member said so far, PPO trends seem to be showing a positive trend. In keeping with tradition, IIT Kharagpur, will kickstart its process in the early hours of December 1, but online. A total of 2,000 students and 175-odd companies will be participating. The number of companies is at par with last year's figure, said placement dean Raja Kumar. "All types of organizations across sectors like software, analytics, consulting, core engineering companies, banking, and finance will be major takers this year as well. Software industries are also improving due to online business growth and will offer additional support. However there might be some nominal reduction in number of hires at this time," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/iits-see-huge-rush-in-recruiters-but-us-placements-may-drop/articleshow/79501811.cms||Hemali Chhapia
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka GP polls on December 22, 27; results will be out on 30th||BENGALURU: The State Election Commission on Monday announced elections to 5,762 of Karnataka’s 6,004 gram panchayats. Polling will be held on December 22 and 27, and results will be declared on Dec 30. Some 162 gram panchayats will not go to the polls since their term ends only on Dec 20. At least 74 gram panchayats, which have been upgraded as urban local bodies, will also not vote in December along with six panchayats because of an ongoing court case. Though the elections are held without using party symbols, control of GPs is seen by mainstream parties BJP, Congress and JD(S) as building blocks to consolidate their power at the grassroots. In the 2016 local body polls, Congress-backed candidates had won a majority of the seats. CM BS Yediyurappa said panchayat polls are as crucial as assembly and Lok Sabha elections since they strengthen the organisation at the grassroots. “We will take utmost interest in the polls, though candidates will not face the election on party symbols. However, we want the candidates supported by us to win,” he added. KPCC chief DK Shivakumar said the party was geared to take on the BJP and retain a bulk of the panchayat seats. EVMs to be used in Bidar, ballot papers elsewhereThe JD(S), with pockets of strength especially in southern Karnataka, is also priming for the fight with state president HD Kumaraswamy meeting district unit chiefs. The poll announcement comes in the light of Karnataka high court directing the election panel to announce the schedule at the earliest. The government favoured deferring the polls to next year citing Covid-19. The court refused to buy the argument. State election commissioner B Basavaraju said the model code of conduct came into effect with the announcement of the poll schedule. He said electronic voting machines will be used in Bidar district and ballot papers in the rest of the state. The Congress on Monday held a day-long postmortem of its defeat in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar bypolls. At the meeting, it planned to draw up a strategy to counter the BJP and JD(S) in the gram panchayat polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-gp-polls-on-dec-22-27-results-will-be-out-on-30th/articleshow/79501429.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||23 Christians convert in BJP MP’s presence||KARWAR: Twenty-three people from five Christian families in Haliyal taluk of Karnataka’s Uttara Kannada district have converted to Hinduism in a ceremony presided over by BJP MP Anant Kumar Hegde and described by saffron outfits as “ghar wapsi (homecoming)”. Former BJP MLA Suneel Hegde handed a saffron flag each to those who converted at Haliyal town on Sunday. “Most of these families are poor and have no knowledge of conversion to other religions. The conversion of the Dalits and tribals to Christianity will be opposed tooth and nail... I request those who are converting Hindus to desist, else they will face the repercussions,”. He said the MP would continue to lead the campaign in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23-christians-convert-in-bjp-mps-presence/articleshow/79501827.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||Indian Hotels eyes expansion in east||Kolkata: Indian Hotels Co that owns the Taj, Vivanta, Ginger and other hospitality brands, is set to expand its presence in the east from 1,000 rooms in 10 properties to 2,400 rooms across 23 properties in the next four years. This will see the eastern region’s contribution to the IHCL revenue go up from 10% now to 15% after the properties are operational. The Taj brand will lead the growth drive with addition of six properties, up from the sole Taj Bengal in Kolkata at present. While three of them will be in Bengal: two in Kolkata and one in Darjeeling’s Kurseong, the others will be in Patna, Puri and Gangtok. Of the six, five properties are being developed by the Ambuja Neotia group with which IHCL signed the management contract for the Kolkata and Patna properties on Monday in addition to the hotels at Darjeeling and Gangtok for which tie-ups had happened earlier. Commenting on the signing, IHCL MD and CEO Puneet Chhatwal said, “We are very committed to the eastern part of India as we believe that it has tremendous potential. These signings also cement our relationship with the Ambuja Neotia Group.” Apart from the six new Taj hotels, IHCL will add four Vivanta properties to the existing two and three Ginger hotels to the existing seven. Except for the Ginger hotel in Agartala that is a leased property, all the other hotels will be on management contract. On further expansion in the east, Chhatwal said the company would look at opportunities to expand the Taj brand in West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand while focusing on the Vivanta and Ginger brands in the northeastern states. The two new Taj properties in Kolkata comprise the 147-room hotel at Ambuja City Centre that was formerly managed by Swissotel and a new 57-room boutique hotel Taj Taal Kutir being constructed at Eco Park. While the former will be operational by September 2021 after a refurbishment, the latter is expected to be operational a year later. Taj Chia Kutir Resort & Spa with 72 rooms at Makaibari tea estate in Darjeeling is set to open this month. Ambuja Neotia group chairman Harshvardhan Neotia pegged the investment in the five properties at Rs 800 crore. While the IHCL boss said the group would not take the pedal off opening a new property every month owing to the pandemic situation, he said the ratio of revenue from business and leisure hotels is set to change with leisure properties expected to garner 60% revenue as revenge tourism makes its presence felt after the lockdown. Earlier, leisure properties contributed to 40% of IHCL revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-hotels-eyes-expansion-in-east/articleshow/79499776.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||Post debt rejig, lenders to own 10% in Kesoram||Kolkata: Lenders will have 10% stake in Manjushree Khaitan-led Kesoram Industries following the proposed debt restructuring. The cement manufacturer in an attempt to cut down debt is raising resources through hybrid instruments from foreign investors. It is also converting some existing debt into equity. Main lenders of the company are SBI, Axis Bank, South Indian Bank along with others. The foreign investors are likely to be Goldman Sachs and its associates. Kesoram has said that as part of the resolution plan approved in-principle pursuant to the RBI Circular of June 7, 2019, issued for providing the framework for resolution of stressed assets, conversion of the existing loan into equity shares up to Rs 100 crore and zero coupon optionally convertible redeemable preference shares up to Rs 500 crore to the existing lenders would be offered. In a statement, the company has said that it proposes to execute the resolution plan with the existing lenders and complete the same at the earliest. “The infusion by the investors will aid the settlement with existing lenders,” it added. According to sources, existing lenders currently have no equity exposure in the company. The promoters stake in the company would get diluted by 3-4% following the exercise. Now promoters have little over 53% in the company. On debt and hybrid instruments, the company has said that the board gave approvals to enable the company to issue securities at an appropriate time. “This is to inform you that the “Fund Raising Committee” and the Board of Directors of the Company at their meetings held today, i.e. Monday, 30° November, 2020 have, inter alia, approved issuance of Non- Convertible Debentures and/or Optionally Convertible Debentures aggregating upto Rs 2200 crore on a private placement basis,” Kesoram wrote to stock exchanges. “The debt which would be raised is likely to be lower than what has been approved in the enabling resolution,” added sources. Kesoram has got an in-principle approval from its lenders to go ahead with its fund-raising and subsequent debt recast plan on November 25. The company has already pared debt by around Rs 1,000 crore following demerger of its tyre division into a new entity Birla Tyres. It is learnt that the fund would be used mainly to pair long-term debt, which is around Rs 1,500 crore. The total debt of Kesoram is Rs 2,100-2,200 crore, rest is working capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/post-debt-rejig-lenders-to-own-10-in-kesoram/articleshow/79499803.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA to soon embark on digitisation of its land bank||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) will soon embark on digitisation of lands in its possession. Earlier, the urban development authority completed a survey of 200 acres of government land and now wants to expedite the survey for the digitisation process. For the survey, VMRDA will launch a joint inspection drawing officials from its planning and estate wings apart from seeking help of the district revenue department. It would identify all vacant land, land locked in the court cases, encroached land, vacant land and developed land. For example, some Form D patta holders approached the court and got a status quo on their land, which were actually transferred to VMRDA from the government as per records. Apart from encroachments, some land pockets were taken back by the revenue department. Moreover, land alienation process has not been completed for some of the land. VMRDA has decided to file early counter affidavits on pending cases. According to VMRDA officials, the development authority gets ownership of lands in two ways – one through land acquisition and another through transfer land from the government. The transfer of some government land dates back to the 1980s. Meanwhile, VMRDA is taking various measures to safeguard its land. Besides, removing encroachments and filing criminal cases against the offenders, the VMRDA has been putting up fences around its land. A few weeks ago, VMRDA removed encroachments in about 1 acre land at Kurmannapalem in Vizag. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said that the digitisation process would come with several benefits. “The VMRDA can incorporate these land holdings in the list of 22-A prohibited properties as government land. Then, no private person will be able to encroach upon or register these land holdings. The digital inventory of land holdings will also help VMRDA repurpose them,” Rao added. The process would install boundary stones, as physical markers, around these lands. Stones would be located nearly three feet under the ground and four feet above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-to-soon-embark-on-digitisation-of-its-land-bank/articleshow/79497418.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 1, 2020||Goa||Cops file chargesheet in Walke murder case||Panaji: The crime branch of the Goa police on Monday filed a 1,200-page chargesheet before the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Margao, against six persons in the murder of jeweller Swapnil Walke. Statements of 111 witnesses have been recorded in the case. The 41-year-old Walke was stabbed at his shop in the heart of the commercial capital on September 2 this year. Although he was losing blood rapidly, he chased the assailant but collapsed outside the store and died before he could be taken to hospital. Investigation officer and Margao police inspector C L Patil, said three of the six individuals — Omkar Patil, Evander Rodrigues and Mustafa Shaikh — have been charged for murder and under provisions of the Arms Act, while the other three who sold guns to the accused have been charged under provisions of the Arms Act. The chargesheet states that the accused had hatched a conspiracy and had contacted the accused in Bihar in order to procure guns. Two guns were purchased for Rs 70,000, one of which was used in the Walke murder case, the investigation officer said. Rodrigues and Shaikh had travelled to Bihar to purchase the guns and returned to Goa by train, the police stated, adding that Omkar had gone to received the duo at Margao railway station upon their arrival. Walke’s murder case was initially investigated by the Margao police but was transferred to the crime branch within a few days. DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena had said that the police had concluded that “armed robbery gone wrong” was the sole motive behind the killing. “The motive is very clear. It was robbery,” Meena had said. “The robbers had carried out a survey of some shops, and ultimately selected this particular one. Their plan didn’t succeed owing to the scuffle that ensued between the killer and the victim.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-file-chargesheet-in-walke-murder-case/articleshow/79499963.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three years after launch, LHMS still finds few takers in Port City||Visakhapatnam: Launched around three years ago, Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) — a system of installing CCTV cameras in locked homes and monitoring them through mobile phones — is yet to garner significant response from the public. Consequently, Vizag city police have started an awareness campaign about the system ahead of the festive season. According to the crime wing of city police department, LHMS was launched in June 2017. Since then, a total of 1,07,013 users have downloaded the mobile application for the system and registered. However, as of Sunday, only 2,790 people have made requests to the police department for the service. In order to use the service, people need to download the LHMS app. Register on it. And then request the police department for LHMS service through the app about the service they require such as installation of cameras free of cost. The user will have to share the date of travel and return. ACP (crime) Ch Penta Rao said, “The request for service must be made 24 hours before the applicant leaves the house to ensure that the cameras have been installed properly. The service is available at all 23 police stations in the city. Each station has a sanctioned set of cameras which can be provided upon request.” Speaking about the awareness campaign launched, ADCP (crime) K Venugopal Naidu said, “Since the Pongal and tourism season has begun, we have instructed station house officers to start awareness campaigns about LHMS in the area. Effective results of LHMS can only be achieved with support from the public.” Concerns regarding safety of homes gather greater significance during the holiday season pointing to a need for greater surveillance. According to Prof P Mallikarjuna Rao of the department of electrical engineering at Andhra University (AU), IoT-based devices can be used for cameras. He suggested that GVMC, police and other stakeholders should not issue no-objection certificates if buildings are not equipped with surveillance systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-years-after-launch-lhms-still-finds-few-takers-in-port-city/articleshow/79497434.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Wards on Bengaluru outskirts reporting more cases||BENGALURU: Vasanthapura, Hoodi, Horamavu, Kadugodi Hemmigepura, Byatarayanapura and Bellandur wards on the outskirts of Bengaluru are reporting more Covid-19 cases now. These seven wards have been reporting at least 10 positive cases daily for the past 10 days, according to BBMP data. On Friday, Kadugodi (17) reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the city, followed by Vasanthapura (15), Horamavu (13), Hoodi and Hemmigepura (11 each) and Byatarayanapura and Bellandur (10 each). LAST WEEK’S DATA17% of cases from MahadevapuraAccording to BBMP’s bulletin, Mahadevapura accounts for nearly 17% of cases during last week, while Bommanahalli zone reported 14%. These zones include areas on the periphery of the city. BBMP officials admitted they are facing a huge challenge in enforcing mandatory masks and social distancing norms that are crucial to contain the pandemic. “With easing of the lockdown, people are not understanding the importance of maintaining social distancing, though there is some attempt to follow the mandatory mask norm,” said a BBMP marshal in Horamavu. BBMP marshals and police have been tasked with enforcing Covid-19 norms. “Zones like Bommanahalli are teeming with industrial pockets and we can’t expect people to maintain social distancing,” a health officer said. Sources in BBMP said they’re facing huge manpower issues in enforcing mask and social distancing norms in Bommanhalli and Mahadevapura zones. While Rs 25,000 was collected as fine from violators in Bommanhalli on Monday till 7.30pm, it was Rs 35,750 in Mahadevapura. Enforcement is way better in south and west zones, where the fine collected was Rs 1.1 lakh and Rs 80,750 respectively. Sources said enforcement in Bommanhalli and Mahadevapura zones is also hindered as most violators are poor and don’t carry with them enough money to pay the Rs 250 fine. “All we can do is pull them up and send them off,” they added. “Many people testing positive in these areas are either labourers or industry workers who fail to follow health protocols and ensure Covidappropriate behaviour. They only wear masks when marshals are around and social distancing is just not followed,” said Rajendra Cholan, special commissioner health and IT. “Most of these people live in shanty localities where even if one person is tested positive, at least five others easily turn positive,” he added. BBMP now plans to spread awareness about social distancing and mask use by making public announcements on autotippers, Cholan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wards-on-bengaluru-outskirts-reporting-more-cases/articleshow/79501857.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 1, 2020||Goa||50 more get stung by jellyfish||Calangute: A large number of tourists continued getting stung by jellyfish in the Calangute-Candolim beach belt, with around 50 incidents reported over the weekend. The highest number of incidents, 43, were reported from Calangute beach, while there were a few cases recorded in Candolim and Baga as well. All the tourists were administered first-aid by Drishti lifeguards. There has been a sudden surge in jellyfish stings in the last two weeks, with cases being reported from almost all beaches in the state. The incidents have coincided with the rise in tourist footfalls. In one case at Calangute on Sunday, a lady who was stung by a jellyfish experienced breathing difficulties with pain in her chest and was losing consciousness. Lifeguards administered her oxygen before rushing her in a jeep to the Candolim primary health centre for further treatment. Drishti lifeguards patrolling the beaches have also been advising tourists not to touch the jellyfish which float close to the beach or wash up on ashore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-more-get-stung-by-jellyfish/articleshow/79500005.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna district’s Covid-19 tally improves in November||VIJAYAWADA: With the number of new Covid-19 cases coming down over the month, Krishna district health wing authorities heaved a sigh of relief on the last day of November. The district saw only 3,885 cases in the month of November, a significant decrease from 11,216 cases in October. So far, Krishna district has seen a total of 45,412 Covid-19 cases and 637 deaths. In November, only 71 deaths were reported. 126 deaths were reported in October. The number of active cases in the district has also come down significantly. While the district had 3,370 active cases on October 31, the number has come down to 1,307 by November 30. In further good news, health wing authorities said that nearly 90 per cent of new cases are not showing any symptoms. With the number of high-risk cases being treated in isolation wards having come down, officials have started restoring super-specialty wards at the Government General Hospital (GGH). However, health wing authorities say that the administration is still cautious about the spread of Covid-19 as there is a possibility of a potential second wave in January. District medical and health officer Dr M Suhasini said that currently the focus is on people coming from Delhi and other places. She said that around 7,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted across the district every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishnas-covid-19-tally-improves-in-november/articleshow/79497448.cms||Venu Lanka
December 1, 2020||Goa||Canacona couple’s food kiosk set ablaze for second time||Poinguinim: A couple in Canacona, operating a food stall from Madditolop along NH 66, lost their only source of income after some miscreants set their kiosk ablaze on Saturday. This is the second time the couple, Sneha and Shekhar Uscoikar, have faced their kiosk being gutted due to arson by unidentified accused. This time, however, the couple said they are worse hit as the family was already reeling under losses due to the pandemic. “First the loss of business due to the pandemic and now this,” Sneha said. At the time the Uscoikars reported the fire, Canacona fire station officials were already attending to another incident at Patnem-Colomb. Therefore, a fire tender had to be called from Margao, leading to further delay in dousing the fire. Canacona fire station officer Ravindranath Pednekar said the loss is estimated at Rs 60,000. A case has been registered with Canacona police and is under investigation. “Our livelihood depended on this kiosk where we ran our business of preparing and selling omelette, pav bhaji and some seafood dishes. On Saturday morning, my husband Shekhar had gone to buy bread and I was busy running some other errands. Taking advantage of our absence, some persons set fire to the kiosk,” Sneha said in her complaint. The couple said the first arson incident occurred in 2014, the year they started full-fledged operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-couples-food-kiosk-set-ablaze-for-second-time/articleshow/79500040.cms||Albert Fernandes
December 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 case positivity rate drops to 2% in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 381 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,68,064, while the toll jumped to 6,992 with four more deaths. Both the infection and casualty numbers were the lowest in the last 160 days after the state recorded 425 cases on June 18 and five deaths on June 20. As many as 934 Covid-19 patients were declared cured in the last 24 hours. There are currently 7,840 active cases with 8,53,232 cumulative recoveries. For the first time in months, all the districts posted two-digit daily infection numbers to the table, with Prakasam recording as low as seven cases. The case positivity rate has come down to an average 2.2% in November, the lowest in the last five months. Other parameters like case doubling rate, hospitalisations, and fatality rate too have significantly improved despite the increased testing in November. Even the recovery rate, the key metric used to measure the improving conditions, crossed the 98% mark. Andhra Pradesh is the only state to achieve such a recovery rate among all states in the country. The daily new infections have dropped to double-digits in most of the districts. Even East Godavari, the Covid-19 hotbed of the state, has been recording less than 100 cases for the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-case-positivity-rate-drops-to-2-in-andhra/articleshow/79497457.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Abdul Salam and family’s mass suicide case: No bail for accused cops||TIRUPATI: The third additional district court in Nandyal on Monday cancelled the bail granted to accused in the Abdul Salam and family’s mass suicide case. Salam, his wife and two children had allegedly killed themselves by jumping in front of a train alleging police harassment. Nandyal town I police inspector Somasekhar Reddy and head constable Gangadhar were arrested by the police. The duo soon obtained bail from a local court. Subsequently, the police department filed a petition seeking cancellation of bail. The third additional district court cancelled the bail and directed the police to produce the accused before the court on December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-bail-for-accused-cops/articleshow/79497477.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 1, 2020||Goa||Kamat lends support to lifeguards’ protest||Panaji:Chief minister Pramod Sawant must intervene and help the lifeguards who are protesting at Azad Maidan, said opposition leader Digambar Kamat as he extended his support to the close to hundred lifeguards. The lifeguards, who were once employed by Drishti Marine and were manning Goa’s beaches, are protesting at Azad Maidan as the state government failed to get them reinstated. “I once again urge immediate intervention of the chief minister to resolve their long-pending demands,” Kamat said at Azad Maidan where he went to meet the guards to lend his support. The lifeguards assembled in the state capital are demanding that they should be employed by the government to protect swimmers and tourists along Goa’s beaches. The state government has outsourced services for beach safety and lifeguarding services to Drishti Marine, a private agency. Every year Goa records deaths along the beaches due to drowning but the lifeguards have saved many lives that could have been lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kamat-lends-support-to-lifeguards-protest/articleshow/79500075.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Ex-Tuda chairman and TDP leader’s kin murdered||TIRUPATI: A relative of former Tirupati Urban Development Authority (Tuda) chairman and TDP leader G Narasimha Yadav was reportedly murdered in Tirupati on Sunday night.  According to family members, the deceased, Bharat Yadav was an intermediate student. Family members said that Bharat was initially attacked by a group of youngsters after he reportedly refused to furnish contact details of a friend. Later, when Bharat took his parents to one of his accused’s home, the group of youngsters stabbed him. He was rushed to the hospital and died while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fmr-tuda-chairs-kin-murdered/articleshow/79497491.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 1, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD EO inspects Kalyana Vedika||Tirupati: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) executive officer (EO) KS Jawahar Reddy inspected the Kalyana Vedika at Vontimitta in Kadapa district on Monday. Accompanied by TTD officials, the EO reached the ancient Vontimitta shrine where he inspected Kalyana Vedika built by the temple body with an outlay of Rs 17 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-eo-inspects-kalyana-vedika/articleshow/79497498.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Couple, relative held with 500 kg red sanders||BENGALURU: A 67-year-old man, his wife and their relative were arrested on Sunday and 500kg of red sanders were recovered from them. Four other men have been picked up and are being interrogated in connection with the incident, RT Nagar police said. Abdul Basheer, his wife Aneesa Fatima, 57, of HMT Layout and Suhail Khan, 22, of KG Halli are the arrested accused. Probe revealed Khan had been by nabbed for kidnapping a man from RT Nagar and murdering him in Gauribidanur in 2017. DCP (north) Dharmender Kumar Meena said an anonymous call made to the police control room after Saturday midnight helped them crack the case. “The caller said red sanders were being smuggled in a mini truck and provided details of the vehicle,” he said. RT Nagar police located the mini goods vehicle parked outside Basheer’s residence and raided it. The wood was brought from Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh in another vehicle till the Karnataka border. Khan shifted it to the goods vehicle and drove it to Bengaluru. Khan had been charged with murdering Mohammed Noor on the outskirts of Gauribidanur over a trivial issue. The prime accused, he walked on bail earlier this year. “Basheer and his wife knew well that the sanders had been brought to be stored in their house. Khan and the other four suspects claim to have purchased them from a smuggler in Chittoor. We are questioning the others. We want to know who were their buyers in the city,” said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/couple-relative-held-with-500kg-red-sanders/articleshow/79498637.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Goa||‘Remove obstructions on road to crematorium’||Vasco: The Murgao Hindu Samaj (MHS) has written to the deputy collector of Mormugao taluka asking that obstructions on the road leading to the Hindu cremation ground be removed. The road has been encroached to the extent that hearse vans find it difficult to make their way to the ‘shamshan bhumi’, the Samaj said. Secretary of MHS Santosh Khorjuvekar said that they had written to the Mormugao deputy collector to have the encroachments removed around 10 months ago and that, subsequently, the PWD road division was asked to conduct an inspection and take appropriate measures. However, Khorjuvekar said no work has been carried out to date. “The road starting from the Old Cross Fishing Society to the crematorium, which is a about 250m stretch, has many encroachments. People have put up their belongings and extended their structures too close to the road. In addition, five speed breakers exist on this road, which also makes transporting bodies difficult,” he said, adding that vehicles on this stretch are also wrongly parked further delaying transportation. “The samaj had asked for the removal of these speed breakers and other obstructions on the road. The width of the road is not even 2m because of all the obstruction,” Khorjuvekar said. Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai, when contacted, said that the memorandum was made before he took charge of Mormugao. He said that he would look into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/remove-obstructions-on-road-to-crematorium/articleshow/79500154.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka legal authority to help kids selling knick-knacks||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday directed the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority to chalk out a scheme to help identify children selling toys, flowers and other knick-knacks at traffic junctions. A division bench gave this direction after both the BBMP and government did not respond to the court’s November 18 order for framing a scheme to collect data of such children. KSLSA has to submit a report by December 22; the government and BBMP have been asked to support the authority in the matter. The court is hearing a PIL filed by NGO Letzkit, seeking directions to ensure that children are not forced to sell toys, ear buds, flowers at junctions. The petitioner said after public transport services resumed on May 19 following the lockdown, children were back on the streets selling goods to make up for business loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/legal-authority-to-help-kids-selling-knick-knacks/articleshow/79498641.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Old couple leave gold at Mumbai airport, get it after 4 days||MUMBAI: A senior citizen couple who had forgotten luggage with 46 tolas of gold jewellery at Mumbai airport, got it back after four days thanks to the police. K Ramchandra (80) and his wife Mukta (70) were to board a Mumbai-Mangaluru flight on November 25 to attend a wedding. As the flight was delayed, the couple decided to return home. A couple of days later, they couldn't find one of their hand baggages that contained gold jewellery worth Rs 23 lakh. The couple couldn't recall where they left their bag. They have no children to seek help from. A young neighbour took them to Sahar police station so the police could check the airport premises. After the couple approached Sahar police station, officers went over to the airport and requested access to CCTV footage of the check-in counter. "We asked the couple where they been so we could check cameras of the entire route. We found their hand baggage lying around unclaimed and an airport employee dropping it at the 'lost and found' counter," said senior inspector Shashikant Mane. The police went to the counter, collected the baggage and asked the couple to verify if their gold jewellery was intact. Nothing was missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/old-couple-leave-gold-at-mumbai-airport-get-it-after-4-days/articleshow/79501873.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Shows cancelled in Covid times, Baul singers of Bengal stare at bleak future||Suri: Bengal’s Baul singers have been in a quandary since the Covid-19 crisis began, with all performances abroad as well as in India getting cancelled. Even those who sang inside train compartments had no income during the lockdown. Local trains started plying only earlier this month, leaving them with seven-and-a-half months of no means to earn a livelihood. Thousands of Baul singers don’t know what’s in store for them. They are anxiously watching the path of the pandemic and it doesn’t look good, what with cases rising at an uncontrollable pace in the country, and Europe and the US experiencing a second wave of the novel coronavirus. All public events, including fairs, have been called off in India and foreign travel is unthinkable. In this situation, Baul singers see no hope of performances coming up anywhere soon. Lakshmandas Baul has always spent three to four months a year performing abroad. However, he hasn’t stepped out of Santiniketan since February. “I see no possibility of overseas performances in the coming year too. Our team stages 100 to 110 shows in different states around the country. These routine programmes have also been cancelled. Most of the big fairs and cultural festivals will not be held this winter. It is not worth organising a Baul performance for an audience of just 50 to 100. We have to maintain a team and I don’t know how long it will be possible to survive if the situation does not improve,” he said. Dibyendu Das Baul, son of Baul Samrat Purnadas Baul and official of ‘The Bauls of Bengal’, said: “We have our backs to the wall. The livelihood of as many as six to seven families who work with us as co-performers and instrumentalists depend on the programmes. A number of scheduled performances in Europe and America have been cancelled. Even if the situation improves, it will not be easy to take part in foreign shows because of new restrictions following the second wave of Covid-19.” “Almost every day, I receive calls from Bauls across the state and hear of their plight. It has become a challenge to survive. Some of them are trying to find alternative means of livelihood but in vain,” he added. Sadhandas Baul, who is confined to his ashram at Amrul village in Burdwan, said: “The future of my Baul brethren is at stake. My disciples are providing help. Around 20-25 people live in this ashram. I have to maintain another ashram at Jaydev. Though our condition is not as wretched, most Bauls are in a grave condition financially.” However, a silver lining has emerged for Sadhandas amid this gloom. “I’m trying to collect and compile songs composed by our great sadhaks. If they are not well preserved, they will be lost forever. So far, I have collected and recorded 370 songs. I think it will be a priceless thing for the future and a significant addition to our Baul tradition. The Covid confinement has given me this opportunity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shows-cancelled-in-covid-times-baul-singers-of-bengal-stare-at-bleak-future/articleshow/79500531.cms||Someswar Boral
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||TMC readies outreach to women via apolitical front||Kolkata: In an attempt to reach out to women beyond its supporter base, Trinamool Congress will launch a state-wide campaign from December 12 to showcase women-centric schemes in Bengal. The party’s apolitical front, Bongo Janani — which was formed by chief minister Mamata Banerjee after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — will take the lead in this campaign to reach out to even those women who may not be party supporters. State women and child development minister Sashi Panja, also Bongo Janani general secretary, said: “An apolitical platform will have better outreach because many women may not want to identify with a political party. But these women are not only socially conscious, they also want to fight for the cause of women.” “The effort is to bring about a social movement,” Panja continued. “It was for this that Bongo Janani was formed by Mamata Banerjee. We have been fighting for women’s causes, including protests against the horrific Hathras rape-murder.” Bongo Janani chairperson Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said: “This year, we have felicitated 55,000 Asha workers for their outstanding work in reaching out to people and households during the pandemic. In September, we undertook Mohisha Mardini to empower women. We have reached out to at least 5.5 lakh households.” “From December 12,” she added, “the effort to bring together women fighting for social causes will start from Howrah. The 3.4 crore women electorate is a formidable voting bloc in Bengal. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 81.7% of these women voted, outnumbering male voters. TOI has reported that the draft electoral roll published by Election Commission showed 3,51,45,288 female voters in Bengal, which is around 49% of the state’s 7.1 crore electorate. The campaign was launched after indications that rising women’s voting percentage arrested the anti-incumbency against the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the Bihar polls. As many as 59.6% women voted in Bihar, nearly 5% more than males. Trinamool now wants to showcase its own women-centric schemes, targeting women voters. Apart from Kanyashree, which now extends to the above-18 bracket of high schoolers and college-goers, the party campaign will focus on Swasthya Sathi health scheme rolled out in 2016. This scheme, interestingly, also provides cover to the parents of a married woman card-holder. Khadya Sathi and digital ration cards are also given to the female head of a family. The others to be highlighted will be Rupashree,a Rs 25,000 direct cash transfer (DCT) scheme for girls above 18 as a one-time assistance for their marriage, and ‘Waiting Huts’ institutional child delivery scheme. The campaign also seeks to reach out to 1.2 crore women workers registered under MGNREGA in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-readies-outreach-to-women-via-apolitical-front/articleshow/79500318.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||‘Hare Krishna’ on his lips, Suvendu revisits Nandigram||Nandigram: Rebel Trinamool Congress functionary Suvendu Adhikari was in a new avatar when he revisited Nandigram on Monday to inaugurate ‘Ras Utsav’, coming just 20 days after his Nandigram Diwas rally here. With ‘Hare Krishna’ on his lips, Suvendu was accompanied by youths carrying yellow flags with ‘Om’ embossed on them. But the rebel leader didn’t forget to mention that he was a “sevak” of the people and would continue to remain so. Suvendu shunned politics while speaking from the religious platform. But his short speech during the ‘nagar kirtan’ flag-offhad strong political overtones. He talked about two avatars — Sri Krishna and Sri Rama — though ‘Ras Utsav’ is a celebration of Lord Krishna “meeting his disciples”. Chanting “gour nitai”, Suvendu also remembered offering ‘pushpajali’ on Ashtami at the Durga Puja in Gokulnagar this year. Locals said Suvendu was a regular to the festivals at Janaki Mandir in Nandigram and also the Ramayana tourism circuit along with Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and Sitamarhi. The organizers said “Dada” gave his consent to come to the ‘Ras Utsav’ for the first time in the last six years. Following East Midnapore’s legacy of Hinduism and Vaishnavism, Suvendu offered tributes to Lord Krishna, Lord Rama and Devi Durga. Political observers were quick to read into Suvendu’s religious overtures, seeing it as the Trinamool functionary’s desperate bid to protect his support base from BJP. Monday’s programme indicated that the rebel leader was trying to reach out to Hindu and Vaishnavite voters at a time leaders of the Nandigram Bhumi Uchhed Pratirodh Committee were nowhere around him. On Monday, TMC’s Nandigram block president Meghnad Pal and Nandigram panchayat samiti president Banashree Khanra were among the few politicians around Suvendu, indicating the divide between Dada and Trinamool loyalists. However, there was huge enthusiasm among the youths, who jostled to get closer to their “Dada”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hare-krishna-on-his-lips-suvendu-revisits-nandigram/articleshow/79500408.cms||Suman Mandal
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip takes a dig at Abhishek||Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh took an oblique jibe at Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee, calling him “khokababu” (a minor) who got things on a platter, hours after Banerjee called Ghosh a “goonda” from a public meeting at Muchisa in South 24 Parganas on Sunday. Soon after, Banerjee got a legal notice from Ghosh’s office for making “derogatory, demeaning and aspersive” remarks and asking the TMC leader to withdraw the same within three days. “We used to call him bhaipo (nephew) out of love. What’s the harm in it? But I would like to call him khokababu from now, who became an MP without hard work. And those who toiled for the party have to stand in front of him with folded hands,” Ghosh said. The BJP state president didn’t take Banerjee’s calling him a “goonda” personally. “If standing by the people makes us a goonda, so be it. We will do that more. Abhishek Banerjee has seen nothing of a goonda till now. They (Trinamool) will get a taste of their own medicine,” Ghosh said, stepping up the pitch months ahead of the Bengal assembly polls. Ghosh later brought a serious charge on the government saying efforts were on to turn Paschim Bangla into Paschim Bangladesh. To substantiate the charge, the BJP leader pointed to the infiltration from Bangladesh. “Terrorists are using the state as a corridor,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-takes-a-dig-at-abhishek/articleshow/79500444.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||Plasma could help reduce Covid mortality: Kolkata study||KOLKATA: Convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) could be very helpful in managing Covid-19 patients less than 67 years old: it can quell cytokine storm, significantly mitigate hypoxia, reduce hospital stay and provide greater chances of survival for patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome, a study at the state-run Beliaghata ID Hospital, under the joint initiative of the Centre of Scientific Research (CSIR) and the Bengal government, has found. The initial findings have enthused researchers, with Arturo Casadevall, professor of microbiology, immunology and infectious diseases at the prestigious John Hopkins School of Medicine, tweeting about the study’s findings. A scientist of repute, Casadevall is the principal investigator of a 35,000 patient-strong plasma trial in the US. A recent CPT trial conducted by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had found no benefits, prompting the Centre to contemplate removing the therapy from the official Covid treatment guidelines. In its latest advisory about two weeks ago, however, the council did not ask doctors to discard the therapy altogether, but advised against its indiscriminate use, further suggesting when and how to administer it. Principal investigator Dipyaman Ganguly, an associate professor at the Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), said: “We knew that not all patients would benefit from the therapy. Our quest, therefore, was to identify patients who would be best benefited. We hope the result of our study would pave the way for more specific guidelines.” ICMR had conducted the trial at 39 hospitals across the country on moderately infected patients. The trial in Kolkata, under the DCGI (Drugs Controller General of India) was conducted on patients admitted at the ID hospital who had ARDS. Patients who received the therapy included those with co-morbidities, such as aplastic anaemia and kidney failure. While the ICMR study examined the efficacy of plasma therapy, the one by CSIR and the Bengal government went into the immunological impact of CPT, the first such scientific study in India. The randomized control trial in Kolkata had taken in 80 patients, half of whom received standard therapy while the other half got CPT. All the plasma units used in the study were collected at the plasma bank at Medical College Hospital, Kolkata. Each unit was screened not only for neutralizing antibody content but also the antibody level in the plasma. “While across all age-groups, no statistically significant clinical benefit was registered for patients in the CPT arm, significant immediate mitigation of hypoxia, reduction in hospital stay as well as survival benefits were recorded in severe Covid patients with ARDS aged less than 67 years who received the therapy,” said the final finding of the study, published on Monday but yet to be peer-reviewed. The team also analysed 48 cytokines, a group of proteins secreted by specific cells of the immune system. Many severely infected Covid patients undergo a ‘cytokine storm’, or an aggressive inflammatory response to the virus. The trial observed a calming of this cytokine storm in patients after receiving plasma, indicating the therapy’s anti-inflammatory role. The study however, noted that although the administration of plasma led to an immediate reduction in hypoxia, the effect wore off in some patients from the third day onwards. Funded and supported by CSIR, the clinical trial involved doctors from the ID hospital, Medical College and School of Tropical Medicine, including Yogiraj Ray, Shekhar Ranjan Paul, Bihbhuti Saha and Prasun Bhattacharya. Two other scientists from IICB — Sandip Paul and Shilpak Chatterjee — were instrumental in the study, led by Ganguly. “We have submitted our findings to the state health department as well,” said infectious diseases specialist Ray, the clinical investigator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plasma-could-help-reduce-cov-mortality-city-study/articleshow/79500884.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s ‘Duare Sarkar’ from today, focus on health cover||KOLKATA: Duare Sarkar, the Bengal government’s flagship two-month outreach programme, is all set to roll out on Tuesday with the dual promise of delivering public services on doorstep and hearing out grievances, if any, regarding welfare schemes. “The special drive will be held between December 1, 2020, and January 30, 2021, during which 20,000 camps will be organised in four phases to help people avail of scheme benefits,” chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Monday. “The first phase will continue till December 11; the second will span from December 15 to 24. The third from January 2 to 12 and the final mop-up round from January 18 to 30,” he added. Bandyopadhyay urged everyone to attend the camps. He said those who would provided all necessary documents — such as photocopies of Aadhaar card and voter ID — during phase-I would get their Swasthya Sathi card in phase-II. If documents are submitted during phase-II, scheme cards would be handed over in phase-III; and so on. Panchayat and civic officials will help prospective beneficiaries to fill up forms, he said and emphasised that grievances related to ration would be addressed on the spot so that Khadya Sathi cards could be made available to applicants. Necessary amendments to the said card would be carried out at these phase-wise camps. Recently, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the Duare Sarkar programme to ensure that every Bengal resident could avail of the Swasthya Sathi card, which would entitle them to cashless treatment at both government and private hospitals up to Rs 5 lakh a year. A state government notification later extended the campaign to other schemes as well. “People can apply for schemes like Kanyashree, Sikshashree, Rupashree and Aikyashree or for scholarships. Applications for SC/ST and OBC certificates will also be received. In addition, one can enrol for Jai Johar and Taposili Bandhu schemes,” Bandyopadhyay said, adding that officers and staff running the camps would be monitored for transparency. The chief secretary reiterated that the camps were meant to plug gaps in government promises, if any. Under Krishak Bandhu scheme, farmers can seek support while job-seekers could apply under MGNREGS. Online forms will be available on the state government’s Egiye Bangla website. At a news conference at Trinamool Bhavan, minister of state for information and cultural affairs Indranil Sen said Duare Sarkar would be operational in 344 blocks of Bengal to ensure the entire population was covered under Swasthya Sathi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-duare-sarkar-from-today-focus-on-health-cover/articleshow/79500299.cms||Debasish Konar
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||7,000 HIV infections may have gone undetected in Maharashtra during lockdown||MUMBAI: Up to 7,000 HIV detections may have been missed in Maharashtra due to inaccessibility of screening services in the early months of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mumbai alone is likely to have missed at least 1,000 cases, giving rise to concerns over a possible spurt in infections if testing is not intensified. Data collated by the Maharashtra State AIDS Control Society (MSACS), and shared on the eve of the World AIDS Day on December 1, revealed that between April and October, merely 12.2 lakh HIV tests were carried out. Normally, the state performs over four lakh tests every month, which dropped to as little as 75,000 post the lockdown. This resulted in 5,472 detections between April and October. By comparison, 24,486 HIV cases were found in 2018-19 and 22,147 in 2019-20. In Mumbai, too, testing numbers fell from a monthly average of 38,000 in pre-Covid months to 5,000, particularly between April and June. It has touched around 18,000 since July but is far from normalising. A senior MSACS official said the average monthly detection of new cases in Maharashtra has hovered between 1,800 and 2,000 in the past two years, which dropped to less than 700 between April and October this year. "Even if we take into account the 10% year-on-year decline in new cases we have been witnessing, we would have still missed out 6,000 cases in rest of Maharashtra and 1,000 in Mumbai due to the pandemic," the official said. It is feared even if testing is intensified in the remaining five months of 2020-21, only half the gap may be covered. The only silver lining is the positivity rate in the state has stayed under 0.5%, while for Mumbai it continues to be little under 1%. Testing dropped among pregnant women too. From an average of 2 lakh tests carried out in 2019-20, it fell to 1.5lakh in 2020-21. Around 350 of them were found to be positive from April to October, less than half of the 800 detected in 2019-20. Dr Shrikala Acharya, assistant project director of the Mumbai District AIDS Control society, said the lockdown hit testing and counselling services hard in the initial months as commuting became a challenge. The MSACS official said many of their counsellors and technicians were posted on eight-hour Covid duties, making it difficult to run the Integrated Counselling and Testing Centres. Dr Acharya, though, said MDACS could reach over 60% of their registered patients to deliver drugs for multiple months. Eldred Tellis, director, Sankalp Foundation, though, said since sex work as well as group drug usage had decreased, infections could have fallen too. "However, people faced immense difficulty to get treatment for HIV-related opportunistic infections," he said, adding he had to shut his decade-old rehabilitation centre for intravenous drug users in Pune as people objected to his travel from Mumbai. To avert an HIV crisis now, MSACS has asked NGOs to intensify testing at the community level with a focus on high-risk groups. The emphasis will be on the index patient concept where the client of a positive sex worker will be pursued to get tested. Nearly 70,534 such clients were screened till September, of whom 77 were found HIV-positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/7000-hiv-infections-may-have-gone-undetected-in-maharashtra-during-lockdown/articleshow/79501882.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 1, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: 30% drop in new patients in Maharashtra, Mumbai; daily count lowest in 13 days||MUMBAI: New detections of Covid-19 cases in the state and the city decreased significantly on Monday. Maharashtra added 3,837 fresh infections, lowest in 13 days and nearly 30% lower than the number of cases reported on Sunday, and 80 deaths on Monday, taking the total caseload to 18,23,896 and the total fatalities to 47,151. Mumbai also reported the lowest new case additions in 13 days and a 31% dip from the number of cases reported on Sunday. The city added 646 cases and 19 deaths on Monday, taking the total Covid tally to 2,83,467 and fatalities to 10,884. Dharavi's Covid tally rose to 3,692 on Monday after nine new cases were found in the densely populated slum colony, an official said. On Saturday and Sunday, five new cases each were reported in the area. There was also a slight decrease in the active cases in the state and city as the number of discharges was higher than the new cases added on Monday. A total of 4,196 patients were discharged in the state on Monday, taking the total number of discharges to over 16.8 lakh and active cases to 90,557, of which 15,473 were in Mumbai. A senior state official said that if there was any connection of rise in cases due to the drop in temperature, Maharashtra has not seen any effect as the temperatures in most parts of the state have not dropped significantly. On Monday, the cumulative positivity rate of Maharashtra fell below 17%-at 16.8%. The Centre, in its latest meeting with the states, had given them a target of bringing down the positivity rate below 5%. A civic official said that in Mumbai, new case detection has remained under control despite a rise in cases. Deaths, too, have seen a significant decline as compared to previous months. "There has been an almost 60% decrease in deaths when compared to October. Over 80% of the fatalities involved people with comorbidities, while 76% were patients over 60 years of age," the official said, adding that senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions shouldn't delay getting testing or seeing a doctor once they have developed symptoms. Mumbai's cumulative case fatality rate is around 3.8%, while that of the state is 2.6%. The rolling fatality rate for the city, though, has dropped under 2%. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 1,263 new cases and 26 fatalities on Monday, taking the total case tally to 6.3 lakh and total death toll to 18,522. Within MMR, Thane city saw as many as 162 new cases, taking the tally of infected people to 51,317, and four Covid deaths took the virus toll to 1,174. The recovery rate of Thane city is 94%, with 48,378 people recovered and 1,765 active cases. In MMR, Thane rural is contributing to most cases daily after Mumbai now, while Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli are reporting less than 100 cases a day. Navi Mumbai, however, reported four deaths on Monday, second only to Mumbai in the MMR. Meanwhile, the APMC administration in Navi Mumbai recently deployed five dedicated squads to penalise those caught flouting Covid safety norms in Vashi's wholesale market yard. So far, the APMC has caught 4,528 violators and collected Rs 9 lakh in fines. (Inputs from B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-30-drop-in-new-patients-in-maharashtra-mumbai-daily-count-lowest-in-13-days/articleshow/79501915.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 1, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Covid-19: 30% drop in new patients in Maharashtra, Mumbai; daily count lowest in 13 days||MUMBAI: New detections of Covid-19 cases in the state and the city decreased significantly on Monday. Maharashtra added 3,837 fresh infections, lowest in 13 days and nearly 30% lower than the number of cases reported on Sunday, and 80 deaths on Monday, taking the total caseload to 18,23,896 and the total fatalities to 47,151. Mumbai also reported the lowest new case additions in 13 days and a 31% dip from the number of cases reported on Sunday. The city added 646 cases and 19 deaths on Monday, taking the total Covid tally to 2,83,467 and fatalities to 10,884. Dharavi's Covid tally rose to 3,692 on Monday after nine new cases were found in the densely populated slum colony, an official said. On Saturday and Sunday, five new cases each were reported in the area. There was also a slight decrease in the active cases in the state and city as the number of discharges was higher than the new cases added on Monday. A total of 4,196 patients were discharged in the state on Monday, taking the total number of discharges to over 16.8 lakh and active cases to 90,557, of which 15,473 were in Mumbai. A senior state official said that if there was any connection of rise in cases due to the drop in temperature, Maharashtra has not seen any effect as the temperatures in most parts of the state have not dropped significantly. On Monday, the cumulative positivity rate of Maharashtra fell below 17%-at 16.8%. The Centre, in its latest meeting with the states, had given them a target of bringing down the positivity rate below 5%. A civic official said that in Mumbai, new case detection has remained under control despite a rise in cases. Deaths, too, have seen a significant decline as compared to previous months. "There has been an almost 60% decrease in deaths when compared to October. Over 80% of the fatalities involved people with comorbidities, while 76% were patients over 60 years of age," the official said, adding that senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions shouldn't delay getting testing or seeing a doctor once they have developed symptoms. Mumbai's cumulative case fatality rate is around 3.8%, while that of the state is 2.6%. The rolling fatality rate for the city, though, has dropped under 2%. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 1,263 new cases and 26 fatalities on Monday, taking the total case tally to 6.3 lakh and total death toll to 18,522. Within MMR, Thane city saw as many as 162 new cases, taking the tally of infected people to 51,317, and four Covid deaths took the virus toll to 1,174. The recovery rate of Thane city is 94%, with 48,378 people recovered and 1,765 active cases. In MMR, Thane rural is contributing to most cases daily after Mumbai now, while Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli are reporting less than 100 cases a day. Navi Mumbai, however, reported four deaths on Monday, second only to Mumbai in the MMR. Meanwhile, the APMC administration in Navi Mumbai recently deployed five dedicated squads to penalise those caught flouting Covid safety norms in Vashi's wholesale market yard. So far, the APMC has caught 4,528 violators and collected Rs 9 lakh in fines. (Inputs from B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/covid-19-30-drop-in-new-patients-in-maharashtra-mumbai-daily-count-lowest-in-13-days/articleshow/79501944.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 1, 2020||Thane||Covid-19: 30% drop in new patients in Maharashtra, Mumbai; daily count lowest in 13 days||MUMBAI: New detections of Covid-19 cases in the state and the city decreased significantly on Monday. Maharashtra added 3,837 fresh infections, lowest in 13 days and nearly 30% lower than the number of cases reported on Sunday, and 80 deaths on Monday, taking the total caseload to 18,23,896 and the total fatalities to 47,151. Mumbai also reported the lowest new case additions in 13 days and a 31% dip from the number of cases reported on Sunday. The city added 646 cases and 19 deaths on Monday, taking the total Covid tally to 2,83,467 and fatalities to 10,884. Dharavi's Covid tally rose to 3,692 on Monday after nine new cases were found in the densely populated slum colony, an official said. On Saturday and Sunday, five new cases each were reported in the area. There was also a slight decrease in the active cases in the state and city as the number of discharges was higher than the new cases added on Monday. A total of 4,196 patients were discharged in the state on Monday, taking the total number of discharges to over 16.8 lakh and active cases to 90,557, of which 15,473 were in Mumbai. A senior state official said that if there was any connection of rise in cases due to the drop in temperature, Maharashtra has not seen any effect as the temperatures in most parts of the state have not dropped significantly. On Monday, the cumulative positivity rate of Maharashtra fell below 17%-at 16.8%. The Centre, in its latest meeting with the states, had given them a target of bringing down the positivity rate below 5%. A civic official said that in Mumbai, new case detection has remained under control despite a rise in cases. Deaths, too, have seen a significant decline as compared to previous months. "There has been an almost 60% decrease in deaths when compared to October. Over 80% of the fatalities involved people with comorbidities, while 76% were patients over 60 years of age," the official said, adding that senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions shouldn't delay getting testing or seeing a doctor once they have developed symptoms. Mumbai's cumulative case fatality rate is around 3.8%, while that of the state is 2.6%. The rolling fatality rate for the city, though, has dropped under 2%. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 1,263 new cases and 26 fatalities on Monday, taking the total case tally to 6.3 lakh and total death toll to 18,522. Within MMR, Thane city saw as many as 162 new cases, taking the tally of infected people to 51,317, and four Covid deaths took the virus toll to 1,174. The recovery rate of Thane city is 94%, with 48,378 people recovered and 1,765 active cases. In MMR, Thane rural is contributing to most cases daily after Mumbai now, while Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli are reporting less than 100 cases a day. Navi Mumbai, however, reported four deaths on Monday, second only to Mumbai in the MMR. Meanwhile, the APMC administration in Navi Mumbai recently deployed five dedicated squads to penalise those caught flouting Covid safety norms in Vashi's wholesale market yard. So far, the APMC has caught 4,528 violators and collected Rs 9 lakh in fines. (Inputs from B B Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-19-30-drop-in-new-patients-in-maharashtra-mumbai-daily-count-lowest-in-13-days/articleshow/79501943.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 1, 2020||World||Biden, Harris send greetings on Guru Nanak's 551st birth anniversary||WASHINGTON: Sending their warmest wishes on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, President-elect Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris on Monday said the founder of Sikhism's timeless and universal message of compassion and unity can inspire and help Americans heal as people and as a nation. "On this day, let us all remind ourselves that Guru Nanak's timeless and universal message of compassion and unity can inspire and help us heal as people and as a nation," Biden and Harris said in a joint statement. They sent extended their warmest greetings to Sikhs in the US and around the world as they observe the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. The President-elect and the Vice President-elect said that for more than five centuries, Guru Nanak's teachings on spiritual enlightenment, service to humanity, and moral integrity have endured and are embodied each day by Sikhs in America and around the world, as was seen during this challenging year. "We are grateful to all of the Sikh Americans who continue to stand by their neighbours as essential workers of the pandemic, and who open their hearts and community kitchens in their gurdwaras to prepare, serve, and deliver countless meals for people most in need," they said. "And during the summer of protest, we saw Sikhs of all ages marching peacefully for racial and gender equality, religious pluralism, and fidelity to truth and justice — core tenets of the Sikh faith and central to who we all are as Americans," Biden and Harris said in the statement. In a separate statement issue in Ottawa, Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau said the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev was an important day for Sikh Canadians. It celebrates his life and his teachings of unity, equality, selflessness, and service, he said. "This year, as we continue to fight the global COVID-19 pandemic, those teachings have never been more important. Whether it is supporting a local charity, being there for neighbours, or helping those who are more vulnerable, Sikh Canadians continue to show selfless service," Trudeau said. "This year will look different as we follow public health guidelines to keep each other and our communities safe, but the Sikh values of compassion and inclusion will remain strong. These values, which form the core principles of Sikhism, are also important for all Canadians," he said. Today is an opportunity to recognise the significant contributions that Canada's Sikh community – one of the largest and most dynamic Sikh populations in the world – makes to build a better, fairer, and more inclusive Canada, Trudeau said. Congressman said Brian Fitzpatrick sent his best wishes to the Sikh community in his district and across the country who are celebrating the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-harris-send-greetings-on-guru-nanaks-551st-birth-anniversary/articleshow/79501925.cms||---
December 1, 2020||India||Biden, Harris send greetings on Guru Nanak's 551st birth anniversary||WASHINGTON: Sending their warmest wishes on the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, President-elect Joe Biden and his deputy Kamala Harris on Monday said the founder of Sikhism's timeless and universal message of compassion and unity can inspire and help Americans heal as people and as a nation. "On this day, let us all remind ourselves that Guru Nanak's timeless and universal message of compassion and unity can inspire and help us heal as people and as a nation," Biden and Harris said in a joint statement. They sent extended their warmest greetings to Sikhs in the US and around the world as they observe the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. The President-elect and the Vice President-elect said that for more than five centuries, Guru Nanak's teachings on spiritual enlightenment, service to humanity, and moral integrity have endured and are embodied each day by Sikhs in America and around the world, as was seen during this challenging year. "We are grateful to all of the Sikh Americans who continue to stand by their neighbours as essential workers of the pandemic, and who open their hearts and community kitchens in their gurdwaras to prepare, serve, and deliver countless meals for people most in need," they said. "And during the summer of protest, we saw Sikhs of all ages marching peacefully for racial and gender equality, religious pluralism, and fidelity to truth and justice — core tenets of the Sikh faith and central to who we all are as Americans," Biden and Harris said in the statement. In a separate statement issue in Ottawa, Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau said the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev was an important day for Sikh Canadians. It celebrates his life and his teachings of unity, equality, selflessness, and service, he said. "This year, as we continue to fight the global COVID-19 pandemic, those teachings have never been more important. Whether it is supporting a local charity, being there for neighbours, or helping those who are more vulnerable, Sikh Canadians continue to show selfless service," Trudeau said. "This year will look different as we follow public health guidelines to keep each other and our communities safe, but the Sikh values of compassion and inclusion will remain strong. These values, which form the core principles of Sikhism, are also important for all Canadians," he said. Today is an opportunity to recognise the significant contributions that Canada's Sikh community – one of the largest and most dynamic Sikh populations in the world – makes to build a better, fairer, and more inclusive Canada, Trudeau said. Congressman said Brian Fitzpatrick sent his best wishes to the Sikh community in his district and across the country who are celebrating the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/biden-harris-send-greetings-on-guru-nanaks-551st-birth-anniversary/articleshow/79501926.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||65,000 safety norm violations reported in Karnataka in 7 days||BENGALURU: Karnataka, over the past week, has recorded more than 65,000 violations of Covid-19 safety norms like mandatory wearing of masks and social distancing in public spaces. Some experts rue the lack of enforcement and say self-regulation is, perhaps, the only remedy against a probable second wave. Data from the State War Room for Covid-19 shows Karnataka recorded 65,649 cases of people violating social distancing and mask rules in seven days ending Saturday (November 28). Sources say the numbers could actually be much higher as monitoring is poor at district and taluk levels. In Bengaluru, BBMP marshals and police have been tasked with enforcing safety norms, while in other districts, it is mostly police who have been saddled with the job, an official said. As expected, the most violations — 14,624 — were reported in Bengaluru Urban, followed by Chikkaballapura (9,303) and Kalaburagi (4,815). Bengaluru Urban reported 5,625 positive cases during the seven days, while Chikkaballapura and Kalaburagi saw 167 and 208 infections, respectively. Districts like Bidar (85), Vijayapura (133) and Uttara Kannada (291) reported fewer violations during the same sevenday period. While Bidar reported 50 positive cases, Vijayapura saw 140 and Uttara Kannada 178. Bidar, however, had the least number of active cases. Ramachandran R, deputy commissioner of Bidar district, admitted lack of enforcement could be one of the main reasons for spread of the virus. “Various factors including manpower shortage could be reasons for lack of enforcement. We will be stricter with enforcement,” he said. Despite there being a sharp drop in fresh cases and with hopes of a vaccine rising, experts say ignoring precautions can lead to big trouble. Dr H Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals and member of Karnataka's expert committee on Covid-19, said massive second and third waves of Covid-19 are unfolding in Delhi and some other states, stretching the healthcare system to breaking point. “This surge is solely due to the negligence of the citizens in those states,” Dr Ballal said. “They are not taking necessary precautions of wearing masks, ensuring social distancing, frequent hand washing and following cough etiquette. Cold temperatures of the winter and pollution have added to the problem too.” Dr Ravindra M Mehta, head of the department of pulmonology and interventional pulmonology, Apollo Hospitals and member of BBMP’s Covid-19 expert committee, said the pandemic is showing bi-phasic or tri-phasic patterns where the incidence of infections rages for a while and abates only to rise again. Behavioural patterns like wearing masks and social distancing can reduce the chance of infection, he said. “In Bengaluru, we have found that Covid-19 incidence, by and large, lags behind cities like Delhi and Mumbai by roughly about 2–3 months,” Dr Mehta said. “Considering that Delhi’s second wave began around two weeks ago, the next 2–3 months would be the period when maximum vigilance is required in Bengaluru.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/65000-safety-norm-violations-reported-in-karnataka-in-7-days/articleshow/79501958.cms||Kiran Parashar
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru tech makes masks foolproof||BENGALURU: G-Fab, an innovative germicidal fabric technology developed by researchers at the department of biotechnology’s Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (DBT-inStem) in Bengaluru, will now be available in the market. The tech is being used to coat face masks which will be available across India. The technology inactivates viruses and bacteria upon contact. Under lab conditions, it achieved a 99.9% reduction rate against a wide range of viruses, including SARSCoV-2, which causes Covid-19 and the influenza virus (H1N1 flu), besides bacteria. The technology was developed by Praveen Vemula’s lab at DB-inStem, which issued a non-exclusive licence to Color Threads, a company incubated at the Centre for cellular and molecular platforms in Bengaluru and based in Tirupur, Tamil Nadu. “Color Threads further refined the technology and made it market-ready through bulk scale production. It also collaborated with the Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Ltd (Van Heusen) to manufacture and market masks,” a statement read. Researchers said a charged organic molecule, called a quaternary ammonium salt (QAS), which they have developed, is the foundation of the germicidal compound. “The new class of QAS molecules was developed to specifically target membranes of viruses and bacteria, while being non-toxic to human cells,” DBT-inStem said. “Researchers optimised the application of these molecules by studying basics of the textile industry, to enable QAS molecules to bind to cotton fibres.” Vemula said the process of attaching QAS molecules to fabric is adaptable, scalable, and should be affordable. His team includes Mahendra Mohan, Siju Raghavan, Kriti Biligiri, Sanjeeb Kalita and Sandeep Chandrashekharappa. “Our research and testing concluded that this compound remains attached to fabric for at least 30 cycles of standard mild detergent wash,” Vemula said. “Germicidal efficiency was achieved due to systematic design of novel QAS molecules to enhance the charge density in the fabric content.” They collaborated with the laboratory of cell biologist, Prof Satyajit Mayor, centre director, National Centre for Biological Sciences, and his student, Parijat Sil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-tech-makes-masks-foolproof/articleshow/79501947.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Medical colleges to focus on practicals||BENGALURU: Colleges affiliated to Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) will reopen for physical classes on Tuesday and while medical colleges will kick off practical and clinical sessions, some dental and pharmacy colleges have scheduled exams and may not resume regular classes immediately. To ensure social distancing, colleges plan to divide students into batches of 20 or 30 for practical classes. “We have about 130 students in a batch,” said Dr Sanikop Mallikarjun, principal, Oxford Medical College. “We plan to make groups of 27 for practicals. Each group can remain in a single department for the entire day. Most theory portions were covered through online classes, so the focus will be on practicals.” Jayanti C R, director, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, said the emphasis will be on first and final year students as they have exams coming up. Buses have been arranged to pick and drop students. “Most hostel students are back. Students of other batches have also started trickling in. We will make batches of 20 for practicals,” she said. Dr VT Venkatesh, principal, Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences, said they plan to have 2-3 faculty in practical classes so that students can be taught in smaller groups. “The number of Covid-19 cases has fallen so there should be more non-Covid patients as well,” said Dr Venkatesh. “Students can examine these patients and learn. They have missed out on practical exposure for so long.” Meanwhile, many dental colleges have exams under way. “The exams are under way and only odd batches are free now. Their numbers are very small. Physical classes will resume after the exams,” said Dr Asha R, principal, RV Dental College. Dr Ramachandra Shetty, principal of Government College of Pharmacy, which has also scheduled exams, said classes could start only by the end of December or January. Poor social distancingHostel students, however, claimed social distancing has been poor especially in common areas. “We have common mess and toilets so Covid protocols are hard to abide by,” said a final year MBBS student of a medical college in Tumkur. Some colleges do not allow students to step out as a precaution. Many international students will have to skip classes and exams over. “I cannot travel to India for my exams due to lack of flights,” said an MBBS student who is currently in Malaysia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-medical-colleges-to-focus-on-practicals/articleshow/79501942.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 5 lakh health staff to get vaccine in first round||BENGALURU: In sync with countrywide preparations to roll out a Covid-19 vaccine for the masses, Karnataka has informed the Centre that it has prepared a list of five lakh health workers, who will be administered the vaccine first. Karnataka’s preparedness was communicated at a meeting held by the central government cabinet secretary with chief secretaries of states and UTs on Monday. The state health and family welfare department said deputy commissioners have held meetings with district task force members to review cold chain preparedness and data collection on healthcare workers in government and private health facilities. A list of 2,24,083 healthcare workers in the government sector and 2,45,773 in the private sector has been drawn up to get inoculated. The state has identified more than 30,000 session sites (vaccination sites) and more than 10,000 government vaccinators. The process to identify vaccinators from private facilities has been initiated. The consignee list to install cold chain equipment has been shared and all necessary preparations are in place. Cold storage space available with the animal husbandry department and dry storage space available with Food Corporation of India have also been earmarked. In order to ramp up cold storage capacity, the state has requested the Centre for more equipment. The state has proposed to establish three new regional vaccine stores in Bengaluru Urban, Shivamogga and Ballari districts and to ensure better distribution network, it has requested the Centre to supply refrigerated vaccine vans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-5-lakh-health-staff-to-get-vaccine-in-first-round/articleshow/79501998.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Business||FCC chief, who ended net neutrality, to quit in January||NEW DELHI: US Federal Communications Commission chairman Ajit Pai said he’ll leave the agency on January 20, 2021, eliminating the possibility of a holdover Republican majority at the agency that could have temporarily stymied changes sought by the incoming Biden administration. Since being elevated to the chairmanship by President Donald Trump in 2017, Pai, a Republican, has led the commission in dismantling net neutrality regulations and pushed for fast wireless broadband service. Pai’s term as a commissioner extends to July 2021 and he could have stayed on as a commissioner, without the chairman’s power to set the agency’s agenda, but has opted not to. With another Republican leaving after his term expired, the FCC will have a 2-to-1 Democratic majority on Inauguration Day unless the Senate confirms Nathan Simington, a Republican whose nomination is to be considered on December 4 by the Commerce Committee. Under Pai the FCC in 2017 revoked so-called net neutrality rules put in place by the Obama administration that barred broadband service providers from interfering with web traffic — for instance by slowing competitors’ content. Pai’s change gutted the FCC’s authority over internet service providers. It was welcomed by carriers such as AT&T and Verizon Communications. Pai pressed to assign more airwaves for high-speed mobile broadband. The FCC sold airwaves in an auction that attracted more than $4 billion in bidding that concluded in August, and has scheduled a sale for December. Pai, 47, promised “light-touch” regulation, and he used his time to reduce rules. He has been a member since 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/fcc-chief-who-ended-net-neutrality-to-quit-in-january/articleshow/79502000.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh man held for curbing partner’s religious freedom||BHOPAL: A 32-year-old man has been arrested in a town in Shahdol district under Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 1968, for allegedly forcing his live-in partner to “adapt to his culture” and “curtailing her religious freedom”. The complainant, a 28-year-old woman, had eloped with accused Irshaad Khan in 2018 and they had lived together since then. They hadn’t had a nikaah or court marriage, police in Shahdol’s Dhanpuri town said. After she eloped, her parents had approached police. “On their complaint, police recovered her but she was not a minor and said in court that she wanted to live with Irshaad. They went away. They lived together for the past few years,” Dhanpuri’s subdivisional officer of police (SDOP) Bharat Dubey said. Last week, the woman rushed to her parents and complained that Irshaad was forcing her to adapt to his culture, said Dubey. “Among other things, she alleged that the accused was forcing her to learn Arabic,” he said. On November 27, she filed a complaint with police, and Irshaad, who works as a hardware technician, was arrested the next day. “As her religious freedom was being prevented, a case was registered against the accused under Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act and he has been arrested,” the SDOP said. Woman alleged conversion bid in statement to copsDhanpuri police station in-charge Ratnambar Shukla said, “The woman has not mentioned religious conversion in her complaint, but she spoke about it in her statement to police. We found her Aadhar card, where the number is the same but her name has been changed to correspond with the religion of the accused. We issued a notice to Irshaad on whether he had informed a magistrate before converting her religion, and he said he hadn’t.” On November 17, home minister Narottam Mishra had announced that the government is going to make a law against ‘love jihad’ in the state. The draft of the bill proposes 10 years’ imprisonment for the prime convict, five years in jail for those who solemnise these marriages, and cancellation of registration of NGOs involved in these, Mishra had said, adding that these marriages will be declared null. “It will be a non-bailable offence, and the burden of proving innocence will rest on the accused,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-man-held-for-curbing-partners-religious-freedom/articleshow/79502004.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Schools unlikely to open before next year’s academic session||GANDHINAGAR: After the post Diwali spike in Covid-19 cases forced the state government to postpone its earlier decision to reopen schools from November 23, the government has now reportedly completely shelved the idea of reopening schools until the next academic year. In another significant development, the Gujarat government is actively considering a proposal of mass promotion of all students of lower classes. However, class X and XII board examinations are likely to be conducted with stringent protocols in place. Key sources in the state education department said that the spurt in Covid-19 cases across the state has prompted the government to shun any plans to reopen schools this academic year. “Under such circumstances, the government is not keen to consider any proposal of reopening schools,” officials said. Govt not keen on considering reopening of schoolsCovid-19 cases continue to be on the rise in cities, towns and rural areas. Under such circumstances, the government is not keen to consider any proposal of reopening schools. According to experts, it will take at least six weeks for cases to reach pre-Diwali levels,” officials said. “We anticipate that Covid-19 cases are not likely to come down drastically before the end of the current academic year. Vaccine for the pandemic is also not likely to be available before the end of this academic year. The government is of the view that schools should not be opened until the next academic year, which is after the 2021 summer vacation,” the official said. Regarding the issue of year-end examinations, key government sources said that the government already has a ‘no-detention’ policy in place. “The government could opt for mass promotion, while private schools will be free to conduct online examinations to evaluate the students. We could give students of government schools test papers, which they can answer from their homes,” a key official said. “The government is of the opinion that class X and XII board examinations ought to be held under stringent Covid-19 guidelines. to take a considered decision on the issue of board examinations. Board examination can also be postponed if the situation is not conducive ,” officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-schools-unlikely-to-open-before-next-years-academic-session/articleshow/79502043.cms||Kapil Dave
December 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: A Dubai tour sans visit to Burj Khalifa?||AHMEDABAD: A trip to Dubai might as well be futile if visiting Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, is not on the itinerary. In fact, a consumer court has acknowledged this grief of a Gandhinagar-based couple, who was left high and dry when an online travel company did not arrange for a visit to Burj Khalifa. The consumer court has fined Make My Trip India Pvt Ltd and ordered it to return the fee of Rs 10,000 to Gandhinagar-resident Gulam Mohiuddin Harsodia and his wife. The court also ordered payment of Rs 5,000 as fine and Rs 15,000 towards mental harassment. The couple had opted for a tour package for a cruise of the Balkan countries including a stay in Dubai to fulfil their wish to see Burj Khalifa. Their bookings were made in April 2019 and the tour kicked off in June 2019. Upon returning from Hamburg in Germany, the couple were to stay in Dubai, where they had planned to visit top tourist spots including the Burj Khalifa. When the company declined them an opportunity to see the world's tallest building, a dejected and angry Harsodia filed acomplaint with the Gandhinagar District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission seeking compensation from Make My Trip. Harodia argued that he had earlier visited Dubai in 1997 and 2006 and especially chose to visit Dubai again to have a dekko at Burj Khalifa which was built in 2010. He had paid Rs 10,000 as fees towards the visit, which was scheduled for the last day of their three-day four-nights stay in Dubai. As the local travel agency could not change its schedule, he and his wife missed their visit to the Burj. The travel company denied the charges and claimed it merely acted as a facilitator for bookings and confirmed package bookings with the service providers concerned such as airlines, hotels and local travel agencies on behalf of the customer. It is not liable for any deficiency on the part of service providers. “It was the customer’s duty to check the itinerary and he could have raised the issue of the schedule while accepting the terms and conditions,” the company argued. After hearing the case, the consumer court concluded that the tourist missed an opportunity to visit the Burj Khalifa because the travel company played a trick and meted out a deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-a-dubai-tour-sans-visit-to-burj-khalifa/articleshow/79502061.cms||Saeed Khan
December 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC slaps 10,000 cost on CCB cop for inaction in pending litigation||BENGALURU: Inaction for a year in a pending matter proved costly for Mahananda, inspector with the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of city police, as the high court directed him to pay Rs 10,000 as cost to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. The officer was pulled up with regard to a petition filed by Hariraj Shetty and other office-bearers of a recreation club in west Bengaluru, in 2015. They had challenged the raid on their premises by CCB police and the court had sought certain records pertaining to the operation. Justice PB Bajanthri noted that the officer, who had taken charge on December 19, 2019, had sufficient time to verify litigation that was pending and had to be attended. He has been told to furnish the register maintained in respect of pending litigation in his office at the next date of hearing (December 4) to verify how many matters he has attended to and acted upon. In February 2015, a fax message was sent to the inspector’s office intimating that March 3, 2015 was the next date of hearing but there was no response. The petitioners had claimed that police had raided the club on February 2, 2015 on a false complaint about gambling. They had sought for a direction to police not to register an FIR and also not to arrest them. On February 27, 2015, the HC ordered notice to police. The investi ting officer was told to furnish records by March 3, 2015, but he failed to comply with that. Thereafter, the matter had come up for hearing several times. On November 17, 2020, Justice Bajanthri pulled up police and directed the inspector concerned to appear before the court with all the records. Though the inspector appeared, only some records were produced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-slaps-10k-cost-on-ccb-cop-for-inaction-in-pending-litigation/articleshow/79498646.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Noida||Over half of Noida’s active Covid patients are recovering at home||NOIDA: More than half of the city’s active Covid patients have opted for home isolation. Of the 1,193 active cases, 607 are recovering at home. Officials said the number of such patients had increased from 420 in just one week. According to authorities, the recent spike in patients opting for home isolation is all the more because of the falling temperatures. Patients with symptoms, they said, are preferring to recover in the comfort of their homes because of the dip in mercury. Since July 28, when the UP government had allowed the home isolation of Covid patients, 4,233 people have opted for it. Of them, a total of 174 patients had to be admitted to Covid hospitals in the district after they turned moderately serious while recovering at home. But there has been no fatality of such patients so far. The Noida health department has set up an integrated Covid control centre in Sector 59 to keep watch on patients in home isolation. “We have a 35-member team, including five doctors, at the control centre. They are engaged in 24x7 monitoring of these patients through both audio and video calls from the Sector 59 control centre. Apart from them, 16 other teams having two members in each are visiting houses where there are patients. Earlier, these teams would visit houses once in 72 hours. But now, they are doing so every 48 hours,” said Dr Lalit Kumar, additional chief medical officer (ACMO) and the nodal officer in charge of the home isolation cell at the centre. According to Dr Lalit, the recent rise in home isolation requests is because of the cold weather conditions. “Plus, there are spillovers from the spike during the festive season,” he added. UP health minister Jai Pratap Singh, who visited the city last week to inaugurate a dialysis facility at the District Hospital, appreciated the functioning of the teams watching over patients in home isolation. “Apart from checking the medical condition of such patients daily and delivering health kits to them, we ensure there is no delay in shifting patients to hospitals when required. Even comorbid patients, who have been shifted to hospitals, have recovered and returned home. So far, we have admitted 174 patients to Covid hospitals. All have recovered and there has been no fatality,” said an operator at the control centre. Patients in home isolation are advised to wear masks, monitor their oxygen saturation levels every two hours and report to the authorities immediately if it falls below 92. They are also advised to call the control room if they have problems breathing, cough or tiredness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/over-half-of-noidas-active-covid-patients-are-recovering-at-home/articleshow/79499553.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||For 6,000 daily Covid test target, Ghaziabad to seek more kits||GHAZIABAD: To increase Covid testing in the district from 4,000 to 6,000 tests per day in December, the administration is planning to write to the state government urging it to provide more kits. The UP government’s directives related to Covid management in winter were issued a few days back and is now being implemented across the district. The state government on Monday also issued guidelines related to containment zones, surveillance activities and Covid-appropriate behaviour for December. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “As per the order, a minimum of 3,100 tests is required to be done every day. But, we have been doing far more than that in November. This will continue in December and in the meantime, we will write to the government to allow us to conduct more tests. The increased number would help us conduct focused testing of high-risk groups besides carrying out regular testing of contacts and symptomatic patients.” According to the latest guidelines, the administration has been asked to demarcate containment zones at the micro-level. The authorities have been asked to identify 80% of all contacts — who came in contact with a Covid patient in the past 14 days — within 72 hours. The districts have been asked to keep L1 hospitals ready and make arrangement for oxygen supply to 20% of beds. The officials have been asked to map high-risk areas from where maximum cases are being reported and test people there through the RT-PCR method. The directives also stated that the revised target for daily Covid testing will be issued soon and asked officials to conduct 40% of the target through the RT-PCR method. The districts have been directed to set up static testing booths in urban and rural areas so that people have easy access. These booths are expected to run between 10am and 4pm. Of nearly 5.3 lakh tests done so far, 3.5 lakh have been conducted in the past three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/for-6k-daily-test-target-ghaziabad-to-seek-more-kits/articleshow/79499589.cms||Aditya Dev
December 1, 2020||Noida||Woman ‘raped’ by four says Noida cops asked her to hush it up||GREATER NOIDA: The family of a 56-year-old woman who was allegedly raped by four assailants has charged that the police asked them to hush up the matter. They also claimed that it was a theft and not loot. The men had fled with cash and jewellery after holding the woman’s husband, daughter and son hostage. Noida police has, however, denied the allegations, stating that they in fact took a fresh complaint from the family to include the rape allegation, but a medical examination has ruled out any internal/external injury and presence of sperm. An FIR has been lodged in the case under IPC sections 376-d (gang rape) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt while committing robbery). The family has alleged that they were attacked on the intervening night of November 27-28 by cattle thieves who looted their cash, jewellery and two cattle. They said the woman was raped by the men who dragged her to a distance. Talking to media, the woman alleged that they folded hands before the accused but they didn’t listen and took out all the boxes from their shanty on the outskirts of Palla village in Dadri. Her relative told mediapersons that while she was accompanying the woman to the hospital, the police told them that they should only inform about the theft and not to reveal about the gang rape. SP district president Bir Singh Yadav targeted the Yogi Adityanath government alleging that ‘jungle raj’ is prevalent in the state, which has instilled fear among the public. He also said loots, rapes, murders and kidnappings are rampant after the BJP came into power. Local SP leader Shyam Singh Bhati said despite the BJP district president being a resident of the village, no concrete action has been taken in the matter. He also said the state government has failed in taking steps to tackle crimes. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey told TOI that the allegation of the family about police asking them to hush the matter is absolutely false. “Why should the police fabricate any facts? Cops have arranged the medical examination of the woman after taking a fresh complaint, when the woman alleged about the gang rape. We lodged an FIR in the case immediately. In her complaint, the woman has alleged that one person misbehaved with her, and the primary medical examination and the pathological test have ruled out presence of sperm or any external and internal injury,” he said. He added that the swab samples have been sent for testing to the forensic science laboratory in Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-raped-by-4-says-cops-asked-her-hush-it-up/articleshow/79499922.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 1, 2020||Gurgaon||Birders record diving duck’s 1st visit||GURUGRAM: A red-breasted merganser — mostly seen in European countries — is enjoying in a lake in Jhajjar, diving to catch fish and attracting avid bird-watchers of the national capital region. Some birders are flocking there to see this rare bird, which has been documented in the NCR never before. The diving duck was spotted in a water body in Mondochi village in Jhajjar on Monday by some birders of the Delhi Bird Society. Before this, the red-breasted merganser was spotted only in Siliguri, Mumbai and Konni wildlife sanctuary. “This bird has been documented only thrice in India. It has never been spotted in Delhi-NCR before this. It is a rare species for India. The bird usually visits China and Japan,” said Pankaj Gupta, a birder from the Delhi Bird Society. The red-breasted merganser has a long body and a thin red beak. It has a hairy chest. The male and female of this species have different features. While the males carry a distinct green head, the females have brown heads. Generally, it is found in big water bodies as it dives to catch fish. It is a regular bird for European countries and is a frequent visitor to China and Japan, some experts pointed out. Rakesh Ahlawat, the birder who spotted the winged beauty at the lake, said: “I was with another birder who is a doctor at PGIMS Rohtak and Sonu Dalal a local from the village. We took pictures of the bird on Sunday as well, but we were not sure if it was the red-breasted merganser or common merganser. It is difficult to identify as both the species are very similar. Also, the bird was very far in the water body making it difficult for us to capture a clear photo. I visited the lake again on Monday to take more pictures of the bird.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/birders-record-diving-ducks-1st-visit/articleshow/79615510.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 1, 2020||Noida||Green signal but no driver: NMRC struggles to find companies for new line||NOIDA: For the second time this year, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation’s efforts to find a company to build its second extension to Greater Noida – a line crucial for the connectivity of residential sectors and colonies not on or near the expressway – have ended in disappointment. Tenders floated again for the Sector 51-Knowledge Park V section, a 15km corridor that will be built in two phases, had only two companies evincing interest this time, short of the minimum three required for the bidding process to begin. The NMRC has floated tenders again, hoping to be third time lucky. “We have re-floated the tender. The last date for response is December 18,” NMRC MD Ritu Maheshwari told TOI. Manoj Vajpayee general manager (technical), NMRC, said, “Maybe, it’s the Covid situation for which not too many entities are coming forth to take up a big project like this one. We, however, hope this time we will get some serious responses. The last two times, just two valid companies expressed interest and that is not adequate. So, a re-tendering has become necessary.” In the second round of tenders, which expired on November 20, NMRC received responses only from GR Infrastructure and SAM India Builtwell. Work on this extension is expected to now start in 2021. The detailed project report has been approved by the state cabinet. The 15km corridor will take the metro through Greater Noida (west), where thousands of delayed flats have been recently delivered to buyers and many more will be over the next few months and connect these areas to Delhi Metro’s Blue Line at Sector 51. Of the total nine stations on the route, five are to be built in the first phase by 2022 – on a 9.6km with stations at sectors 122 and 123 in Noida and sectors 2, 4 and Ecotech 12 in Greater Noida. The estimated cost of construction is Rs 430 crore. All these stations will be on an elevated platform. The second phase will have four stations – sectors 3, 10 and 12 and Knowledge Park 5, all in Greater Noida. Another key Aqua Line route, from Sector 142 to Botanical Garden, has been finalised by the NMRC, but it is being vetted by the metro board. The route alignment will then be sent to the Centre for approval. The Sector 51 to Knowledge Park V section had been lined up as the first off the blocks, but that now hinges entirely on the success of the third bid. In June, three companies had responded to tenders for building the first phase of the Knowledge Park V corridor. They were Sam India Builtwell, NCC and Shrisay Infotech. Of them, Shrisay was ruled out. The Botanical Garden extension is planned to run along the Noida expressway, through sectors 94, 125, 126, 97, 127, 98, 93, 91, 136 and 142.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/green-signal-but-no-driver-nmrc-struggles-to-find-companies-for-new-line/articleshow/79500509.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Delhi-Meerut Expressway won’t be able to meet deadline of December 31||Ghaziabad: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has told Union minister Nitin Gadkari that they would not be able to complete the Delhi-Meerut Expressway by December 31, the deadline set by him. NHAI has sought time till February to make the expressway operational. NHAI officials, who met Gadkari recently and expressed inability to complete the highway in time, said he had “informally” agreed to the request. Work is going on in two sections of DME — UP Gate to Dasna and Dasna to Meerut. At the meeting, the officials said they had informed Gadkari about the various roadblocks that were holding up the project. It was in August this year that the Union road transport and highways minister had announced that the DME would be made operational by December 31. “Work had been severely affected by the pandemic. Since the announcement, we had been working round-the-clock,” said an NHAI official. “We told the minister about the various problems we are facing. He has informally agreed to our request for extending the deadline,” he added. According to the official, NHAI hoped to make the whole of DME operational by February next year. “A lot of work is left on the two remaining sections. All the work may not be complete, but we can still make the expressway operational by then,” said the official. Asked about the hurdles, the official said, “Work on a railway overbridge in Dasna is yet to take off, while the one in Chipiyana will take at least 10 months. These apart, the construction of a 700m elevated structure in Dasna is undergoing at snail’s pace while work on the interchange at Eastern Peripheral Expressway near Kaushaliya is still on. It is unlikely these will be completed within the deadline period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/dme-wont-be-able-to-meet-deadline-of-december-31/articleshow/79500514.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 1, 2020||Noida||Flyover project in Noida hits gas pipeline hurdle||NOIDA: The 6-km-long Chilla elevated road project has hit a hurdle because of a mismatch in the actual location of a gas pipeline and its position on the Noida Authority's utility map. As a result, the agency building the road, which is crucial for the city's connectivity with east Delhi, has to redesign the pile foundation. The gas pipeline was laid by GAIL several decades ago. Engineers now have to find a workaround for the foundation of the pillars of a 2km stretch of the elevated road. Instead of single foundation piles and pillars, GAIL will go for a portal design across the stretch to maintain distance from the underground gas pipeline. Officials said that a detailed site survey to assess the exact alignment of the pipeline was conducted earlier this month and it was found that design of 12-15 pillars will have to be modified to ensure complete safety. Though Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Limited, the agency executing the project, had finalised the current alignment after studying the detailed project report and the utility map, the situation was different on the ground. “A variation of more than a metre was found between the actual location of the pipeline and what was mentioned in the utility map. The pipe runs in a zig-zag along the 1.2-km-long stretch close to the drain,” said an official involved in the project. A senior GAIL official deputed in Noida, who did not wish to be identified, said that the utility services plan is prepared by the local municipal authority. “The local civic body (Noida Authority in this case) makes a note of all the underground utilities after getting in touch with various service providers. Our line was put in place near Shahdara almost three decades ago. It runs 1m to 4m deep around the stretch,” said the official. When contacted on email, there was no response from the company. The Chilla elevated road project has faced multiple hurdles in the past. The presence of slums next to the drain has also delayed the piling work. However, Noida Authority general manager Rajiv Tyagi said the project is going as per the deadline. "It is slated to get over by December 2021 and will be thrown open to commuters in 2022. Discussions are being held regularly to resolve all kinds of issues,” he added. Watch Flyover project in Noida hits gas pipeline hurdle||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/flyover-project-hits-gas-pipeline-hurdle/articleshow/79500529.cms||Shalabh
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Easing Covid norms, Tamil Nadu allows final year UG classes from December 7||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced reopening of final year undergraduate classes in colleges/universities, including arts, science, technical, engineering, agriculture, fisheries and veterinary institutions, from December 7. Hostels were also allowed to permit students. Considering the need to revive the economy and the severity of the virus spread, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced certain relaxations across the state, except in containment zones. "Lockdown is extended till 24.00 hours of December 31," he said, in a statement. Medical and allied colleges will reopen for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from December 7. However, the classes for the students admitted for the academic year 2020-21 are allowed only from February 1. Hostels will be permitted to take in students. Positivity rate is down due to best efforts of state govt: CMSocial, political, entertainment and religious gatherings are allowed in closed spaces with a maximum of 50% of the seating capacity or with a cap of 200 people from December 1 to December 31. However, permission would be required from the commissioner of Greater Chennai Police, and that of collectors in respective districts. “An appropriate decision will be taken to extend relaxation to conduct meetings in open spaces based on the Covid situation in the coming days,” the CM said. Palaniswami said the best efforts of the state government resulted in bringing down the positivity rate below 6.55%. The cases also fell below 1,600 in the past 10 days, while the number of active cases saw a decline from 50,000 a day to 11,000 now. “Based on the review meetings held on various dates, and the views expressed by the district collectors in the meeting held on November 29, and those of the medical experts and public health committee, and in consultation with senior ministers, the statewide lockdown is extended under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, with various relaxations,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/easing-covid-norms-tamil-nadu-allows-final-year-ug-classes-from-december-7/articleshow/79502233.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Corridor Cut Border, Not Distance||Amritsar: One year of the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor has seen many developments both politically and religiously, giving much needed fodder to politicians in both India and Pakistan. Read the entire story on TOI+Why Kartarpur project has served politicians more than devotees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/corridor-cut-border-not-distance/articleshow/79500575.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rs 16 crore fund sanctioned for medicos admitted through 7.5% quota rule||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has sanctioned 16 crore revolving fund which would be used for paying fees of the MBBS and BDS course students admitted through the 7.5% quota for government school students. A government order to this effect was issued by health secretary J Radhakrishnan on Monday. This follows announcements by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami that the state government would bear the cost of education of these students. According to a calculation given by the Director of Medical Education (DME), the tentative cost of fees and other charges to be paid by these students for the first year would be 15.85 crore. This calculation is for 209 students admitted to MBBS courses in government medical colleges, six in government dental college and 104 in self-financed medical colleges and 80 in dental colleges. The revolving fund would be operated by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Ltd. The government would also take separate measures to help students avail benefits of scholarships and educational assistance under various categories that they are eligible for. The amount so received would be used to partly replenish the revolving fund from concerned departments, the GO stated. Incidentally, this announcement comes on a day when the opposition party DMK tweeted they had taken care of educational expenses of seven students from government schools who had gotten into medical and dental colleges. Last month, the TN government brought in a 7.5% quota for government school students in medical and dental seats. The students would have had to be in government schools from Class VI-XII and also clear NEET. More than 300 MBBS seats in government and self-financing medical colleges would now be available for students from government schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-rs-16-crore-fund-sanctioned-for-medicos-admitted-through-7-5-quota-rule/articleshow/79502248.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Sentiments abound, sewa missing||Kartarpur Sahib: ‘Simran’ and ‘sewa’ have been called the spiritual right and left hands in Sikhism. Sitting in the middle of an expanse of new, bright white marble, the small but historic Darbar Sahib Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara reverberated with sentiments of devotees. Echoing with shabad vani, it had all the peace and calm that imagination can conjure up for a much-revered shrine. The sentiment was there. Yet, sewa was missing, just like the greenery from the fertile Ravi riverbed that wraps itself around the complex. In mid-December, TOI had travelled to the gurdwara through the Kartarpur corridor, probably the only such international link between two hostile countries allowing visa-free travel to a specific location. The corridor was closed on March 15 due to the Covid-19. Pakistan has declared the corridor open but from the Indian side it remains shut till date. Nothing much has, however, changed on the ground in the management of the shrine. When TOI visited the complex, it found that the community kitchen and all other facilities in the complex were run by employees of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (PSGPC), with barely a few visitors out of hundreds volunteering. Of the hundreds of Indian visitors, several could be seen carrying langar material for the kitchen at the historic gurdwara (later PSGPC refused to accept even langar material from devotees). Yet, hardly any of them spent time in helping to prepare the food. The kitchen was run entirely run by eight to 10 employees of PSGPC. Some of them have been working there for over 10 years. Though there are Sikhs in Pakistan and Guru Nanak’s followers come from all religions and sects, there is apparently no Sikh among hired help in the kitchen. Of the five men and three women who prepare food regularly with much devotion for the ‘sangat’ in the main kitchen, two are Christians and the rest Muslims. One of them, Mohammed Sarwar, who had been working there since 1999, said by 8am every morning they had food ready for around 500 people. On Sunday, they prepared food for around 2,500. More food is prepared during the day depending on the number of devotees. Most of the work was done by hand in the big kitchen, except one huge roti-maker that had another big room to itself. Visitors walked in to have a look at its working and marvel at tawa-sized rotis. A group of four senior citizens, the only volunteers in the kitchen area, were washing utensils. But all eateries in the small semi make-shift market — adjoining the gurdwara complex and accessible only to Indian visitors — were doing a brisk business at all hours. “We serve only vegetarian food and finish our stock on most days,” said Mehmood Alam, who runs a ‘Pizza Hut’ outlet out of a wood and steel structure in the market. Not just food outlets, shops selling handicrafts and gift items also have their cash register ringing. The single street market seemed like any other on the either side of the border, drenched in holiday spirit on a sun-lit morning of Punjab winter, frolicking of young couples and contentment of elderly unabashed and visible. Asked about this unusual phenomenon of lack of volunteers, Darbar Sahib granthi Gobind Singh blamed the Indian government for it. “Devotees are allowed only a day visit. They are here for only a few hours. We have been demanding that they should be allowed to stay at night and spend at least two days. You will see the difference then,” he added. At ‘joda ghar’ though, the attendant, a PSGPC employee who did not want to give his name, said they were not allowed to let any visitor enter the room and do sewa (clean shoes) there. Several Indian devotees that TOI spoke to gave varied reasons for not volunteering. Some of them did echo the gurdwara granthi and said time constraint was a reason, while others were clear about getting a chance to visit another country and wanting to soak in the experience. Given the security concerns there is a low possibility that the Indian government will allow longer stay at the gurdwara complex. However, when the corridor opens again and its newness begins to wear off on repeat visitors, is it possible that sense of sewa will prevail? Given that the visitors’ numbers are nowhere close to what was expected by the Pakistan government and Sikh bodies in India and that even the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee has often needed to hire helping hands to run some of its langars, only time can answer that question.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sentiments-abound-sewa-missing/articleshow/79500591.cms||Amit Arora
December 1, 2020||Amritsar||Will fight social evils: Jagir Kaur||AMRITSAR: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee’s president-elect, Bibi Jagir Kaur, says life’s challenges have been her motivation. Born on October 15, 1954, to Girdhara Singh and Parssin Kaur at Bhatnura village in Jalandhar district, she had quit a government job of mathematics teacher in 1987 to serve as head of Sant Baba Prem Singh Muralewala Asthan at Begowal. In 1986, she was elected to the SGPC from Bholath and, next year, voted as legislator and inducted in the Parkash Singh Badal cabinet. On becoming the 43{+r}{+d} SGPC president, her target is to propagate Sikhism and root out social evils through the teachings of the Gurus, a vision she shared with TOI. Excepts:- What are your challenges after becoming the SGPC president for the fourth time? Challenges are at every step of life, and wise tackling is the way to overcome those. In the SGPC, we accept all the challenges of Gurmat Parchar and find solutions with the advice of members, executive body, and the sangat. Besides propagating Sikhism, what is the other focus of attention? The SGPC’s primary job is to spread the teachings of the Gurus. We have been doing a lot already but I will try to make it even better. I’ll also support health and education facilities and improve the management of these institutes so that these are of better service to society. Any immediate change you would want to make to the SGPC management? I have just taken over as SGPC president. I will call the executive committee to discuss all the issues. But I want the SGPC to take maximum advice from the sangat, sewa societies, Sikh bodies, and ‘Panth dae waris’. The SGPC’s image suffered a blow when 328 saroops of Guru Granth Sahib went missing. Your take. Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has made everything clear, that the SGPC took appropriate action. But if anything is left, we will do it as directed by the Akal Takht. Today, I am here only to thank the Almighty. There will be a lot of time for other issues. Your reaction to Punjab farmers’ agitation. The way the Centre as well as the Haryana government has treated them is highly condemnable. I was moved to see the kind of brutality unleashed on men, women, and children. I am short of words to express my feelings but I pray that Waheguru resolves their issues and good sense prevails on the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/will-fight-social-evils-jagir-kaur/articleshow/79500593.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 1, 2020||Noida||Covid patient with comorbidity dies in Noida||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: A comorbid Jewar resident succumbed to coronavirus on Monday at a private hospital in Gautam Budh Nagar, taking the toll to 83. According to sources, the patient, who was an advocate, suffered from liver-related ailment and was admitted at the hospital after testing Covid positive. He was also given plasma treatment. Meanwhile, the district also reported 100 new cases of Covid while 161 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of confirmed cases in the district has reached up to 22,697. Ghaziabad too reported 168 new Covid cases on Monday, taking the total tally to 23, 031. Also, 101 patients were discharged. At present, there are 1, 510 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/covid-patient-with-comorbidity-dies/articleshow/79499513.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Ghaziabad||Covid patient with comorbidity dies in Noida||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: A comorbid Jewar resident succumbed to coronavirus on Monday at a private hospital in Gautam Budh Nagar, taking the toll to 83. According to sources, the patient, who was an advocate, suffered from liver-related ailment and was admitted at the hospital after testing Covid positive. He was also given plasma treatment. Meanwhile, the district also reported 100 new cases of Covid while 161 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. The total number of confirmed cases in the district has reached up to 22,697. Ghaziabad too reported 168 new Covid cases on Monday, taking the total tally to 23, 031. Also, 101 patients were discharged. At present, there are 1, 510 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/covid-patient-with-comorbidity-dies/articleshow/79506239.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Chennai||Depression may intensify into cyclone, bring heavy rainfall in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A week after Cyclone Nivar made landfall near Marakkanam, another cyclonic storm may cross Tamil Nadu bringing widespread rainfall in the state, including heavy rainfall in southern districts from December 1. Weathermen have forecast that the a depression which has formed over Bay of Bengal on Monday, may intensify into a cyclonic storm in 24 hours crossing north Sri Lanka, Comorin area and south Kerala. If it strengthens into a cyclone, it would be called Cyclone Burevi, a name given by Maldives used to refer black mangroves. The system may bring heavy rainfall in parts of southern districts of Tamil Nadu like Kanykumari, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli, which have deficit rainfall so far this northeast monsoon season, and light to moderate rains in Chennai and its suburbs from December 1. As on 8pm on Monday, IMD said the depression over southeast Bay of Bengal has moved westwards at 7kmph speed in six hours and centered over southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal, about 640km east-southeast of Trincomalee, Sri Lanka, and 1,040km east of Kanyakumari. It is likely to intensify into a deep depression in the next 12 hours and a cyclonic storm in the subsequent 12 hours. "It is very likely to move west-northwest and cross Sri lanka coast close to Trincomalee during December 2 evening/night and westwards thereafter emerging into the Comorin area on December 3 morning," said IMD's evening bulletin. Starting from December 1, the system is likely to bring heavy rain at isolated places over Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Sivagangai, Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts, and Karaikal. The intensity of rainfall is likely to increase on December 2 and 3 to extremely heavy rain at isolated places over Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tenkasi, Kanyakumari and Ramanathapuram districts and heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Pudukottai, Sivagangai, Virudhunagar, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts and Karaikal area. Parts of Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts are likely to get heavy spells. Chennai and suburbs are likely to receive thunderstorms with light to moderate rain with sky conditions generally cloudy for the next 48 hours. Temperatures are likely to hover around a maximum of 30 deg C and a minimum of 24 deg C. M Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences under which IMD functions tweeted, "As per present model forecasts, it (the system) may not be severe like Nivar." Squally winds could reach 45-55kmph, gusting to 65kmph over Comorin area, Gulf of Mannar and south Tamil Nadu-Kerala coast from December 2 noon and gradually increase to 55-65kmph gusting to 75kmph over these regions from December 3 morning. Weather blogger Pradeep John said the system, while crossing the TN coast could pull the easterlies into the land bringing rainfall to Chennai and its neighbouring districts. "We will have rain from December 2 to 6. Historically, any weather system crossing the Gulf of Mannar has brought widespread rainfall including in Chennai. We have seen it in Cyclone Nisha in 2008 and during a low pressure in November 2017," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/depression-may-intensify-into-cyclone-bring-heavy-rainfall-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79502279.cms||---
December 1, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM tops in foreign trips, reveals RTI||THRISSUR: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran had the highest number of foreign jaunts during the present tenure of the LDF ministry, as per the RTI replies. While the CM had undertaken 14 foreign trips, Surendran had gone abroad 13 times from 2016 to 2020, the RTI replies, received by KPCC secretary Shaji Kodankandath, have revealed. Kodankandath said the authorities, however, have not disclosed the cost of those trips and whether the Centre had given sanction for those trips. According to the replies, the CM had undertaken 12 official foreign trips, one private trip and one trip for medical treatment. Of the 13 trips of Surendran, nine were official, while four were private. Minister E P Jayarajan had undertaken seven foreign travels, and out of them, six were official trips and one was a private trip. Ministers T M Thomas Isaac, K K Shailaja and A K Saseendran had gone abroad six times each. The replies also revealed that ministers K T Jaleel, A K Balan and V S Sunilkumar went abroad five times each during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-cm-tops-in-foreign-trips-reveals-rti/articleshow/79502310.cms||ST Ramavarman
December 1, 2020||Kochi||Cyclonic storm: Red alert issued in 4 southern districts of Kerala||KOCHI: IMD and Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) have asked people to stay away from beaches and coasts as the sea will turn rough from Tuesday. The weather report said that a depression – formed in the southeast Bay of Bengal – is moving toward Kanyakumari and south Kerala coasts which will later become a cyclonic storm at night on Wednesday. The IMD on Monday issued orange alert (very heavy rainfall of 11-20cm) for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki on Wednesday. Red alert (extremely heavy rain of over 20cm) has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha on Thursday with an orange alert in Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki. The winds on these days would become gales (speeds reaching 70-80km/hr and gusting to 90 km/hr). Kerala has imposed a total ban on fishing in the Arabian Sea and all fishermen have been asked to return to the nearest coast. Squally weather with wind is likely over southwest Bay of Bengal, Kerala coast, southeast Arabian Sea, Maldives and Lakshadweep by Wednesday. District disaster management authority of Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki are on alert. KSDMA officials informed district teams to ensure that trees, likely to be uprooted, be trimmed down with help of fire brigade. All hoarding and boards are being removed to prevent damages and people have been told not to park cars under trees. Travel to high ranges is being discouraged for the next few days. Control rooms will be opened in all taluk offices in said districts with deputy tahsildars and local body officials in charge. Water authority and irrigation department officials have been asked to monitor water levels in rivers, dams and reservoirs. Idukki collector H Dineshan said that tahsildars were told to shift people to safer places in the event of extreme weather situation. “If it rains heavily, we will ban night travel in district. The final decision will be taken after looking at weather conditions on Tuesday,” he said. Meanwhile, Alappuzha administration asked coastal residents to stay vigilant and not to go fishing. Inland fishing too has been banned. The collector directed tahsildars and coastal police to plan evacuation if an emergency arises. Directives have been given to major irrigation department to take steps to open the shutters of Thaneermukkom, Thottapally and Anthakaranazhi barrages if water level in Kuttanad region increases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cyclonic-storm-red-alert-issued-in-4-southern-districts-of-kerala/articleshow/79502364.cms||---
