December 2, 2020||Mangaluru||Two drown, four missing as boat capsizes in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Two fishermen drowned and four others are reportedly missing after their boat capsized near an estuary, about 8 nautical miles off the Mangaluru coast, late on Monday evening. Locals managed to rescue 19 fishermen by using a dinghy. According to the rescued fishermen, the boat ‘Shreeraksha’ with 25 persons on board, capsized as it was overloaded with their catch, coupled with a turbulent sea and gales. The victims are Preetham, 28, and Panduranga Suvarna, 58, residents of Bokkapatana. The coastal security police and local fishermen launched a search operation that was suspended on Tuesday evening. The search will resume on Wednesday morning for Mohammed Hassainar, 28, Mohammed Ansar, 32, Chinthan, 21, and Ziaullah, 36. Shreeraksha, a deep-sea fishing boat registered in 2013, had sailed from Mangaluru fishing harbour, early on Monday, and was expected to return on Tuesday morning. The boat was carrying close to 20 tonnes of fish . According to survivors, the boat sank in minutes.  “We were completely clueless as to what happened to the boat, but were lucky enough to get into the dinghy to save ourselves,” they recalled. The fishermen spent the night on the dinghy, and due to gales, it sailed about 5 km away from the accident spot. When the boat’s wireless communication was lost, the owners alerted nearby fishing boats. A boat named Chamundeshwari found 19 fishermen sailing in the dinghy around 7am on Tuesday, and rescued them. When the incident took place, three were inside the cabin, three others were sleeping on a net placed on the deck while the rest were on the other side of the boat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/2-drown-4-missing-as-boat-capsizes/articleshow/79517923.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Former Karnataka minister held, freed after three days for Rs 48 lakh ransom||BENGALURU: Former Karnataka minister R Varthur Prakash, 54, has alleged that unidentified miscreants abducted him and his driver from near his farmhouse at Begli Hosahalli, Kolar, about 70km from Bengaluru, on November 25 and released him three days later, after collecting Rs 48 lakh in ransom. The abduction of Prakash, a resident of Sanjaynagar and from Kolar, came to light on Tuesday after police seized his abandoned SUV near Bellandur lake. Unable to bear torture, I gave ₹48L to abductors, says former ministerPolice identified Prakash as the owner of the car and approached him. Prakash informed police about his kidnap and said he did not file a complaint as the abductors had threatened to eliminate him. He stated in the complaint that he left his farmhouse at 7pm to visit Kolar on November 25. Eight members blocked his SUV and threatened him and driver Suneel with machetes. “The gang dragged me out, blindfolded me and Suneel before driving us to an unknown place with legs and hands tied. They demanded a Rs 30-crore ransom and assaulted us,” he said. Prakash said he was unable to bear the torture and arranged Rs 48 lakh through his associate Nayaz, who handed over the money near Coffee Day in Kolar on November 26. “But, they demanded more and tortured me,” he said.  Suneel fell unconscious after abductors hit him with a rod. “He regained consciousness around 1am on November 28 and noticed the abductors were consuming alcohol. He fled the spot. They decided to release me fearing Suneel may alert cops. They took me in a car and dumped me at Shivanapura, near Hoskote, at 4am,” Prakash said, adding he hitched a ride to a private hospital at KR Puram. D Devaraja, deputy commissioner of police (Whitefield), has formed teams to trace the gang. Prakash contested as an independent from Kolar constituency in 2008 and 2013, and became a minister in cabinets of in DV Sadananda Gowda and Jagadish Shettar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unable-to-bear-torture-i-gave-48l-to-abductors-says-former-minister/articleshow/79517926.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Come to our langar for jalebi and pakoda along with tea: Farm leaders to Tomar||NEW DELHI: Farmer union leaders on Tuesday invited agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to their protest site and offered to serve him 'jalebi' and 'pakoda' along with tea at their langar (community kitchen), after they were offered tea by the minister during a marathon meeting with the government over their ongoing agitation against three new farm laws. "Tomar Saheb requested us to have tea during the break between the meeting, but we in return extended him an invitation to accompany us to our protest site where we are serving tea along with jalebi and pakodas in langar. This led to laughter all around," Jamhuri Kisan Sabha's Kulwant Singh Sandhu told PTI. He said farmers' unions leaders wanted to utilise the break time to discuss the government's offer of forming a committee. At the meeting, the government suggested setting up a committee to look into issues raised by farmers protesting against new farm laws, but it was rejected by representatives of 35 agitating organisations during their marathon meeting with three Union ministers that ended without any resolution. The government has called for another round of discussions on Thursday, December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/come-to-our-langar-for-jalebi-and-pakoda-along-with-tea-farm-leaders-to-tomar/articleshow/79517831.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Work from home pushes up demand for larger homes in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Homebuyers are looking for bigger flats amid the pandemic as they need a personal and larger space to work from home, which is expected to continue well into next year. While people preferred smaller houses till a few years ago, builders say the trend seems to be changing. Builders were reducing size of flats over the past few years to make them more compact and thus more affordable for first-time buyers, a way of attracting customers who stayed away from purchases for a long time. But now they are trying to put in an additional room, which will make it easier for buyers to work from home. Vaishnavi Group founder CN Govindaraju said 3BHK, and not 2BHK, is becoming the order of the day. “You need a study or a separate space where you can do office work. The pandemic has made people realise the need for extra space.” Considering the demand, Vaishnavi is planning to introduce more such 3BHKs in its future projects. Typically, it has about 60% of apartments with 3 bedrooms and Govindaraju says this will go up to 75%. “Larger unit size is the flavour of the season,” says Rajendra Joshi, CEO of Brigade Group’s residential business. “3BHKs are seeing greater traction and people don’t mind stretching a little in terms of finance,” he added. Even high-end properties are seeing decent sales after a long time. Brigade usually sold five such properties — worth more than Rs 1.5 crore — previously. That has gone up to 8 per month. Puravankara managing director Ashish Puravankara said larger apartments are moving better with considerable improvements in the past three months.  “People are wanting to buy more space. Sale of such apartments is 1.1 times higher than before. We have sold more villas in these three months than we would have sold in a year.” BOX: Many willing to stretch budgetsMany people are upgrading to bigger apartments and villas as home has become their world now. People who can afford apartments costing Rs 1.3 crore are ready to stretch their budgets for a villa, said Kishore Jain, Credai Bengaluru president||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wfh-pushes-up-demand-for-larger-homes-in-bluru/articleshow/79517991.cms||Avik Das
December 2, 2020||Business||IOC, HPCL in octane war with super petrol for premium cars, bikes||NEW DELHI: IndianOil and HPCL have launched a high-octane war - literally - with super-premium petrol to corner the expanding niche of high-performance supercars and superbikes as competition promises to intensify with the imminent privatisation of Bharat Petroleum. HPCL has been priming the market with soft launch of 99-octane petrol under ‘poWer 99’ brand in 21 cities since 2017, IndianOil raised the bar on Tuesday by going full-throttle with a 100-octane version under ‘XP 100’ brand. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan said XP100 has put India in an elite group of six countries, including the US and Germany. India currently uses petrol with 91 octanes. The premium versions sold by IOC, HPCL and BPCL have engine cleaning agents as additives. "It’s a niche market. XP 100 will not compete with normal petrol or CNG but cater to a segment at the top where a customer wants showstopper performance from their automobiles. So we will start by selling it from select outlets in 15 markets," IOC chairman SM Vaidya told TOI. "If customers want a product, as a marketing company we should have it. Premium car and bike owners wanted suitable fuel for their dream machines. So we gave them poWer 99 with required octane level. This is one segment that is unlikely to be affected by CNG or electric mobility, the latter at least in the near to medium term," HPCL chairman MK Surana told TOI. The idea, it seems, is to catch the rich, the famous as well as the young and restless who fancy the stars from carmakers Porsche, Ferrari, Lamborghini, Volvo, Lexus, Audi, Mercedes, BMW and superbikes from the fabled stables of Aprilia, Benelli, Ducati, Triumph and Kawasaki. The high-octane segment is lucrative in the sense that the customers don’t count their money as long as they are getting what they want. So sales are immune to variation due to an increase in pump prices. In the first phase XP 100 will be available at select pumps in Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida, Agra, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, Mumbai, Pune and Ahmedabad. In the second phase, it will be rolled out in Chennai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kochi and Kolkata. These cities have been selected on the basis of their aspirational demographics and availability of high-end cars and bikes dealerships in these cities. The companies had launched the premium versions of petrol and diesel around 2008, coinciding with the entry of a slew of zippy cars and bikes in India. Soon after their launch, the premium fuels with additives cornered nearly 10% of the market as customers didn’t mind paying Rs 2 or so more per litre for better performance and mileage. But a tax hike in 2011 on such fuels spelt the end of the road as the differential with regular petrol and diesel widened to more than Rs 5-6 a litre. The companies again started selling these fuels a few years back to corner about 3% of the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ioc-hpcl-in-octane-war-with-super-petrol-for-premium-cars-bikes/articleshow/79518315.cms||Sanjay Dutta
December 2, 2020||Goa||ISL: Mumbai City show true colours, drub East Bengal||Mumbai City FC are up and running. Among the strongest sides in the Indian Super League, Sergio Lobera’s boys started hesitatingly but have now jumped to the top of the table with their second successive victory. After narrowly edging past FC Goa in the previous game, Mumbai demolished SC East Bengal 3-0 at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Tuesday. Hugo Boumous proved why Mumbai paid a record transfer fee of Rs 1.76 crore for his switch from FC Goa as the attacking midfielder was involved in all three goals. He first set up Adam Le Fondre for the opener in the 20th minute and then won a penalty early in the second half which was calmly converted by Le Fondre. Just before the hour mark, Ahmed Jahouh worked a fine set piece as Boumous set up centre-back Hernan Santana to complete the rout. Mumbai are top of the standings with six points from three games while new entrants East Bengal are at the bottom after two straight defeats. East Bengal suffered an early setback after captain Daniel Fox limped out due to an injury. Mohammed Rafique came in as coach Robbie Fowler was forced to change their formation. Mumbai were classy right from the start and kept their opponents busy. Mandar Rao Desai, making his 100th league appearance, found Le Fondre inside the box and the striker cut back a pass to onrushing Hugo Boumous, whose fierce effort was fisted away to safety by goalkeeper Debjit Majumder. East Bengal showed promise in their opening match defeat against ATK Mohun Bagan but lacked the spark here. They tried to create space, but the midfield lacked ideas. Jacques Maghoma’s shot didn’t trouble Amrinder Singh but the India custodian then dived full length to deny Rafique. The resultant corner worked in favour of Mumbai as they hit East Bengal hard on the counter. Rowlin Borges’ long diagonal ball found Boumous and last season’s Golden Ball winner breezed past the East Bengal defence with ease. The Moroccan first cut past Surchandra Singh and then evaded a slide by Mohamed Irshad. With only Debjit at his mercy, Boumous unselfishly laid the ball on the platter for Le Fondre for an easy tap in. Mumbai had by now settled down and simply increased the pace in search of another. Minutes into the second half, Debjit brought down Boumous and Le Fondre converted the resultant penalty to secure his brace. In the 58th minute, Jahouh’s fine free-kick fell for Boumous and he set up Santana who finished with a thunderous strike from inside the box.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-city-show-true-colours-drub-east-bengal/articleshow/79518511.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||High court directs Karnataka to set up authority, witness protection fund||BENGALURU: The high court on Tuesday directed the state government to constitute a competent authority under the witness protection scheme, in terms of a Supreme Court order, particularly for witnesses appearing in the special court for elected representatives. The authority for Bengaluru Urban district has to be constituted in two weeks. The government must set up a witness protection fund for ensuring effective implementation of the scheme. Also, the proposal for establishing the second special court must be approved at the earliest. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, which took up a suo motu PIL on expediting pending criminal cases against lawmakers, pointed out the SC has directed that keeping in mind vulnerability of witnesses, trial courts may consider granting protection to witnesses without making any application. “In many cases pending before the special court, prominent political personalities will be the accused. There is every possibility some of the prosecution witnesses may become vulnerable. So it's all the more necessary to effectively implement the witness protection scheme,” the bench noted. Regarding Bengaluru, the bench noted the special court is part of the city civil court and therefore, the principal city civil and sessions judge will be chairman of the competent authority. Every investigating officer should be informed that it’s his/her duty to assess whether a prosecution witness can become vulnerable due to various aspects and if there’s a threat perception. The court also called for effective coordination when it was told that apart from 36 cases in which the state is the prosecuting agency, in 136, agencies like Lokayukta, CBI, income tax department and Serious Fraud Investigation Office are prosecuting the matter before the special court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/high-court-directs-state-to-set-up-authority-witness-protection-fund/articleshow/79518513.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Three caught impersonating MBBS candidates||BENGALURU: Two girls and a boy were on Tuesday caught impersonating candidates who had been allotted MBBS seats in a city college. Karnataka Examinations Authority filed a police complaint against Pooja, Chaitra and Madhu for submitting fake documents. According to KEA, three students — Abhay Gautam, Paragi and Maheen Nawaz — had been allotted MBBS seats in BGS Global Institute of Medical Sciences. However, Madhu, Pooja and Chaitra appeared for Abhay, Paragi and Maheen, respectively, during submission of original documents on Tuesday. “We realised the documents submitted were not tallying with details available on the CBSE website. The photographs printed on the marks cards submitted were not matching with the candidates physically present for submission of documents,” KEA said. Police said they are questioning the boy and girls and examining the documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-caught-impersonating-mbbs-candidates/articleshow/79518515.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Groom reaches wedding hall in chopper||BENGALURU: Villagers of Vajarahalli, on the outskirts of south Bengaluru, were in for a surprise on Tuesday when helicopter landed on the premises of a choultry. When a youth alighted to the accompaniment of band and baaja, they realised it was none other than the bridegroom. Niroop, who is from Tumakuru and runs a rice mill, took the chopper ride to reach BRS Grandeur Convention Centre where he is supposed to tie the knot with Aishwarya, a Bengaluru resident, on Wednesday. Manu, manager of the convention centre, said they knew the groom would arrive in a helicopter around 3pm and had made landing arrangements accordingly. Families of the bride and groom were not available for comments. Manu said the convention centre charges Rs 2.4 lakh per day. Watch Groom arrives in chopper at wedding venue in Bengaluru||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/groom-reaches-wedding-hall-in-chopper/articleshow/79518517.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||PIL challenges 5% additional management quota in private professional colleges; Karnataka HC orders notice to govt||BENGALURU: The high court on Tuesday ordered notice to the government, Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) and Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) while hearing a PIL seeking directions to scrap the 5% “other seats or Q seats” category in private professional colleges. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka also ordered notice to Karnataka Professional Colleges Federation, Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association and Association of Minority Professional Colleges in Karnataka. Advocate Ajoy Kumar Patil, who argued his own PIL, claimed reservation of the 5% seats (as management quota) is nothing but a Rs 400 crore scam to enrich private colleges. The petitioner claimed while the Supreme Court in its judgment in the Inamdar case allowed for 15% NRI quota with exorbitant fees fixed by colleges, provision of the additional 5% management quota seats by KEA is violative of its orders. According to him, earmarking of the additional quota over and above the 15% violates Article 14 of the Constitution as it discriminates against economically weaker but meritorious students. The petitioner urged the court to issue directions to the effect that fees charged by private professional educational institutions are strictly as per provisions of sections 6 & 7 of Karnataka Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act, 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pil-challenges-5-additional-mgmt-quota-in-pvt-professional-colleges-hc-orders-notice-to-govt/articleshow/79518525.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: KK Hebbar’s life story serialised for radio||BENGALURU: One of India’s and Karnataka’s most celebrated artists, Kattingeri Krishna Hebbar’s life story is one for the books. Thanks to efforts of the eponymous KK Hebbar Art Foundation, it has been made into a serial for radio. Till December 25, All India Radio is playing the serial, Kala Tapaswi KK Hebbar, from 2.02pm to 2.07pm every day. Each episode will have friends, family and artists sharing personal anecdotes about Hebbar. The featured personalities include noted filmmaker Girish Kasaravalli, former Indian ambassador Chiranjiv Singh, Infosys co-founder Narayana Murthy, artists SG Vasudev and Ravi Kashi, and his family members Rekha Hebbar Rao and Ranna Hebbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kk-hebbars-life-story-serialised-for-radio/articleshow/79518534.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Residents protest over elusive bridge||BENGALURU: Residents of Kamalanagar, west Bengaluru, on Tuesday staged a protest against BBMP’s failure to build a new bridge in place of a 20-year-old one that was pulled down in January. The work on the proposed bridge was carried out only for two months, after which no progress seems to have been made. The protesters claim the old bridge was taken down without reason. Residents of six houses close to the bridge were requested to move out on the pretext that the work would affect them. “After the outbreak of Covid-19, they were forgotten. They have not been receiving due compensation and having been paying rent despite having their own house,” a protester said. BBMP executive engineer L Thimmaras said, “The work had begun in January without approval. A tender is likely to get approved in the next 10 days. Work will commence in the next 15 days.”  Thimmaras visited the site and assured residents that work will be over within three months. BOX: Whitetopping work near Nagavara by Jan-end?The ongoing whitetopping work on Thanisandra Main Road, along the stretch between Nagavara Junction and Bagalur Cross, is likely to be completed by January-end. BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta, directed civic officials to ensure the road becomes functional before Aero India, scheduled to be held in February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/residents-protest-over-elusive-bridge/articleshow/79518535.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||AH Vishwanath to move SC against Karnataka HC ruling||BENGALURU/MYSURU: Former Karnataka minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanath, whose chances of becoming a minister were dashed after the Karnataka high court held that his disqualification as MLA subsists as he is a nominated MLC and not an elected one, accused the advocate general of not arguing his case effectively and said he will move the Supreme Court against the order. Vishwanath said neither the AG nor BJP leaders helped in his legal fight “which has hurt me deeply”. On Monday, the high court said that the CM and the government, while taking any decision on inducting Vishwanath as a minister, should bear in mind that he remains a disqualified MLA unlike R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, whose disqualification has been negated by their  as MLCs. Without naming the CM, Vishwanath said: “The people who benefited from their action and formed government have failed to come to their rescue in difficult times.” HC order came as a disaster for long political career: VishwanathIn November 2019, the top court, while upholding disqualification of Vishwanath and 16 other MLAs, had said they cannot hold any public office till they get re-elected. Expressing support to Vishwanath, the party said it will “never backstab those who helped us form the government”. Law minister JC Madhuswamy said the government will discuss the issue with advocate general Prabhuling Navadig and see what best can be done in the case. He said though Vishwanath lost the Hunsur bypoll, he was nominated to the council. “Candidates who lose polls do not get this kind of recognition in any other party,” he added. The three council members — Vishwanath, Shankar and Nagaraj — were among 17 MLAs who were disqualified from the Karnataka assembly, which led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) government. Later, they joined BJP. Nagaraj and Vishwanath contested the December 2019 assembly bypolls unsuccessfully; whereas Shankar did not contest. They were made MLCs by the BJP. Vishwanath expressed displeasure over the BJP not making him a candidate in the elections to four council seats from the assembly. “My name was on the top of the list of four names sent by the state unit to the high command, but it was dropped at the last minute. If my name had been considered, I’d have become a minister now,’’ he said. Vishwanath’s friend-turnedfoe and JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh alleged Goddess Chamundeshwari has “punished” the former for betraying the party for money as well as power. Vishwanath likened Mahesh to muck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vishwanath-to-move-sc-against-hc-ruling/articleshow/79518648.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Mysuru||AH Vishwanath to move SC against Karnataka HC ruling||BENGALURU/MYSURU: Former Karnataka minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanath, whose chances of becoming a minister were dashed after the Karnataka high court held that his disqualification as MLA subsists as he is a nominated MLC and not an elected one, accused the advocate general of not arguing his case effectively and said he will move the Supreme Court against the order. Vishwanath said neither the AG nor BJP leaders helped in his legal fight “which has hurt me deeply”. On Monday, the high court said that the CM and the government, while taking any decision on inducting Vishwanath as a minister, should bear in mind that he remains a disqualified MLA unlike R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, whose disqualification has been negated by their  as MLCs. Without naming the CM, Vishwanath said: “The people who benefited from their action and formed government have failed to come to their rescue in difficult times.” HC order came as a disaster for long political career: VishwanathIn November 2019, the top court, while upholding disqualification of Vishwanath and 16 other MLAs, had said they cannot hold any public office till they get re-elected. Expressing support to Vishwanath, the party said it will “never backstab those who helped us form the government”. Law minister JC Madhuswamy said the government will discuss the issue with advocate general Prabhuling Navadig and see what best can be done in the case. He said though Vishwanath lost the Hunsur bypoll, he was nominated to the council. “Candidates who lose polls do not get this kind of recognition in any other party,” he added. The three council members — Vishwanath, Shankar and Nagaraj — were among 17 MLAs who were disqualified from the Karnataka assembly, which led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) government. Later, they joined BJP. Nagaraj and Vishwanath contested the December 2019 assembly bypolls unsuccessfully; whereas Shankar did not contest. They were made MLCs by the BJP. Vishwanath expressed displeasure over the BJP not making him a candidate in the elections to four council seats from the assembly. “My name was on the top of the list of four names sent by the state unit to the high command, but it was dropped at the last minute. If my name had been considered, I’d have become a minister now,’’ he said. Vishwanath’s friend-turnedfoe and JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh alleged Goddess Chamundeshwari has “punished” the former for betraying the party for money as well as power. Vishwanath likened Mahesh to muck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vishwanath-to-move-sc-against-hc-ruling/articleshow/79521195.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Buying a car? Show proof of parking first||BENGALURU: In a bid to decongest roads in Bengaluru city, the state government is looking at allowing registration of vehicles only after owners produce a ‘commitment letter’ showing parking space is available. After a meeting convened by chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday on formulating Parking Policy 2.0, the government said it is mulling curbs on purchase of vehicles without parking space. The CM directed chief secretary TM Vijayabhaskar to finetune the draft policy after consulting senior officials and place it before the cabinet for approval. In 2019, the previous JD(S)-Congress government had mooted a similar proposal, but it failed to take off. New policy proposes pay-and-park system in city’s major localitiesBDA chairman and CM’s political secretary SR Vishwanath who attended the meeting said the new policy proposes to make it mandatory for new vehicle buyers to have their own parking space. “Many households own more than one vehicle. Most of them are parked on roads. We plan to address this issue on priority,” said an official. The policy hopes to bring in a controlled, tech-based parking system. It proposes to introduce a payand-park system in all major localities. “We have smart parking fee collection facilities at 80-85 places. We want to extend such facilities to the entire city,” Vishwanath said. It proposes to ban parking of vehicles in a 1km radius around existing multi-level parking facilities in Bengaluru. “Since most of these facilities have remained underutilised, the new rule will help address this issue. It will ease congestion on surrounding roads,” he said. The government is also looking at utilising private open spaces and residential plots as parking spaces by involving BBMP to join hands with land owners. Vishwanath said the number of vehicle buyers in Bengaluru is more than in any other metropolitan city. “People may find these rules tough, but we have to do something to address this problem,” he added. During the meeting, officers apprised the CM about the need for a Parking Policy 2.0 since the number of vehicles has almost doubled in the city in the past seven years. They said usage of public transport must be encouraged. Responses about the policy have been received from individuals, NGOs and RWAs and based on this feedback, parking policy will be revised and submitted for government approval, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buying-a-car-show-proof-of-parking-first/articleshow/79518670.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Choosing one’s spouse a fundamental right: Karnataka high court||BENGALURU: Close on the heels of Allahabad high court upholding the right of individuals to marry persons of their choice, the Karnataka HC echoed a similar opinion while dealing with the case of two software professionals. “It is well settled that a right of any major individual to marry the person of his/her choice is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution of India and the said liberty relating to the personal relationships of two individuals cannot be encroached by anybody irrespective of caste or religion,” observed a division bench comprising Justices S Sujatha and Sachin Shankar Magadum. The observation was made while disposing of a habeas corpus petition filed by HB Wajeed Khan, a software engineer and resident of Bengaluru, on November 27. Khan had approached the court seeking a direction to produce Ramya G, a software engineer and colleague, and set her at liberty so that they can marry. Based on the court’s direction, Chandra Layout police produced Ramya before the court on November 27. Her parents, Gangadhar and Girija, as well as Wajeed Khan and his mother Sreelakshmi were present. Ramya told the court she was staying at the NGO Mahila Dakshatha Samithi, Vidyaranyapura, following a complaint lodged by her with the Janodaya Santwana Kendra, a family dispute resolution forum set up by the women and child welfare department. Parents were infringing on right to liberty: WomanRamya had alleged that her parents were infringing on her right to liberty by opposing her marriage with Wajeed. Wajeed’s mother Sreelakshmi said she had no objection to the marriage but Ramya’s parents did not give their consent. Recording the statements, the bench noted that the scope of a habeas corpus petition is limited to producing the alleged detenue before the court. “Ramya G, being a software engineer, is capable of taking a decision regarding her life. The Mahila Dakshata Samithi is directed to release her forthwith,” the bench observed while disposing of Wajeed’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-hc-choosing-ones-spouse-a-fundamental-right/articleshow/79518672.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||‘Adverse event’ won’t affect vaccine rollout plan: Government||NEW DELHI: The initial causality assessment of the adverse event in the "Covishield" vaccine trials being conducted by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) did not necessitate stoppage of the trial and has not impacted timelines for the vaccine’s rollout, the government said on Tuesday. The Centre was responding to the claim of a Chennai-based man who has sought Rs 5 crore compensation from SII as his health worsened during clinical trials for the Covid-19 vaccine developed by the UK’s Oxford University and AstraZeneca. SII has said the event is not linked to the vaccine, which, it said, is safe and immunogenic. SII has warned of a retaliatory Rs 100-crore defamation suit. Asked why the event was not disclosed by the government or SII until media reports came out, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said there is no reason to conclude that processes and due diligence in dealing with such an incident were not followed. He listed the stages of scrutiny up to the final conclusion by the DCGI (Drug Controller General of India) that the ill-health and hospitalisation (a serious adverse event) were not linked to the vaccine. Further asked what the position of the Indian Council for Medical Research was on the "intimidatory" move by SII to seek Rs 100-crore damages, Bhushan said ICMR has no view on a legal proceeding between two entities such as those in question. "Due processes were followed in reporting the adverse event... We have been given to understand that there is a court case so we cannot comment on the specifics of the case," he said. He pointed out that vaccines against Covid are being developed under extraordinary circumstances in a timeline of 12-18 months. "If a vaccine is developed in four years, it is seen as extraordinary," he said while assuring that safety will not be lost sight of. Coronavirus in India: Live updatesICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said adverse events occur with drugs, vaccines or any other health interventions. "It is the role of the regulator after collating all the data to ascertain or refute whether there is a causal link between the event and the intervention. This is done purely on scientific basis and the assessment is done with very objectively based criteria," he said. In statement on Tuesday, SII said the vaccine won’t be released for mass immunisation unless proven immunogenic and safe. In a more mellow tone, it said while the adverse event is not related to the vaccine, the company was "sympathetic’’ with the participant's medical condition. The doctor in charge of the trial has said the event was found unconnected with the vaccine and the patient's hospitalisation was paid for. The participant reported severe disorientation. Read AlsoAdverse event kept a secret, vaccine volunteers feel betrayedNEW DELHI: Several participants in Serum Institute’s Covid vaccine trial who were given the second shot of the vaccine well after the serious adverse event reported by a trial participant in Chennai feel betrayed that they were not told about the Chennai incident. Trial participants that TOI spokeHighlighting adverse events that have happened during previous trials for polio, measles or rotavirus, vaccine experts said some events are likely to happen when thousands of people are in trials though there is a need for thorough investigation. Some illnesses are likely to happen to vaccinated people even if the vaccine is safe, said vaccine expert Gagandeep Kang in a series of tweets. "No vaccine (or drug from aspirin to zinc) is absolutely risk-free. But no vaccine is licensed where benefits don't hugely outweigh any risk. To know risk is rare is no consolation when AEFIs (adverse event following immunisation) occur, but it is important as a society to understand risks exist & are measured," Kang said, explaining how adverse events vary and are reported. The health ministry plans to come out with detailed guidelines that will address issues around vaccine safety and create awareness and dispel misinformation. Bhushan admitted there can be a case of "vaccine hesitancy" and reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to experts and vaccine-makers to prevent doubts and fears from clouding the public mind. Read AlsoCovid cases down 32% in November, but India still No. 2 globallyIndia reported nearly 12.8 lakh cases in November, second only to the US, where the pandemic surged to unprecedented levels with the country logging 44.8 lakh cases — the highest in any nation for any month since the outbreak. France reported the third highest Covid numbers at 8.5 lakh, followed byBharat Biotech, which is developing the Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, also had an adverse event in August during the Phase 1 trial when a volunteer had to be hospitalised after being given the vaccine. The Hyderabad-based firm had found the incident as not vaccine-related. "When you have this context (Covid), then there is a potentiality that commercial interests would dictate certain strategic actions of commercial entities. Governments of the day have nothing to do with it. However, the responsibility of the government is that we must educate the people about safety, effectiveness of the vaccine and that all disinformation is countered promptly," Bhushan said. The government maintained that a subject is supposed to sign a prior infofrmed consent form about possible adverse events. Besides, the trials are multi-centric and there is an institutional ethics committee at each trial site that evaluates and reports such adverse events to the drug regulator. There are also data safety monitoring boards consisting of domain experts to monitor clinical trials on a day-to-day basis. Both ethics committee and DSMB are independent of the vaccine developer and the government and report any adverse events, along with their assessment and recommendation on whether there is a need to halt the trials. Watch ‘Adverse event’ won’t affect vaccine rollout plan, says Government||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adverse-event-wont-affect-vaccine-rollout-plan-government/articleshow/79520304.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 2, 2020||India||Marrying person of choice fundamental right: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court has said it was well settled that the “right of any major individual to marry the person of his/her choice is a fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution of India”, echoing earlier observations by the Allahabad and Delhi high courts upholding the right to marry a person of one’s own choice. The Karnataka HC division bench comprising Justices S Sujatha Sachin Shankar Magadum, which was dealing with a case involving two software professionals on November 27, added that “the said liberty relating to the personal relationships of two individuals cannot be encroached by anybody irrespective of caste or religion”. Read AlsoFive interfaith couples tell their storyHindu-Muslim couples in Uttar Pradesh vindicated by Allahabad HC verdict, but wary of state interventionThe observations came while disposing of a habeas corpus petition filed by HB Wajeed Khan, a software engineer and resident of Bengaluru, who had approached the court seeking directions to produce Ramya G, a software engineer and colleague, and set her at liberty. Acting on the court’s directions, Chandra Layout police produced Ramya before the court on November 27. Her parents, Gangadhar and Girija, as well as Wajeed Khan and his mother, Sreelakshmi, were present. Read AlsoAdult woman free to live wherever, with whoever she wishes, says Delhi HCAn adult woman is free to live wherever and with whoever she wishes, the Delhi high court has said, reuniting a 20-year-old woman with her husband. The ruling comes at a time when moves by Uttar Pradesh and other BJP-ruled states to enact laws against "love jihad" have sparked a nationwide debate onRamya told the court she was staying at NGO Mahila Dakshatha Samithi, Vidyaranyapura, following a complaint lodged by her with the Janodaya Santwana Kendra, a family dispute resolution forum set up by the department of women and child welfare development. Ramya had alleged that her parents were infringing on her right to liberty by opposing her marriage to Wajeed. Read AlsoRight to choose a partner intrinsic to right to life: Allahabad high courtThe Allahabad high court has held that “right to choose a partner, irrespective of religion, is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty.” Justice Pankaj Naqvi and Justice Vivek Agarwal made these observations while quashing an FIR of kidnapping, forcible conversion and case under the POCSOWajeed’s mother Sreelakshmi said she had no objection to the marriage but Ramya’s parents had not consented. Recording the statements, the bench noted that the scope of a habeas corpus petition was limited to producing the alleged detenue before the court. Read AlsoNo plans for ‘love jihad’ law: Karnataka governmentNEW DELHI: Facing criticism from Congress, the BS Yediyurappa government in Karnataka clarified on Tuesday that it had no plans to introduce a law against what is described as “love jihad”. “Our culture is a blend of various religions, which are different from each other but co-exist. So, there is“Ramya G, being a software engineer, is capable of taking a decision regarding her life. The Mahila Dakshata Samithi is directed to release her forthwith,” the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/marrying-person-of-choice-fundamental-right-karnataka-hc/articleshow/79520342.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Business||GST mop-up around Rs 1.05 lakh crore in November||NEW DELHI: Goods and services tax collections hovered around Rs 1.05 lakh crore for the second month with the mop-up in November, 2020, estimated to be 1.4% higher than the corresponding period last year. “During the month, revenues from import of goods was 4.9% higher and the revenues from domestic transactions, including import of services, were 0.5% higher that the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” the finance ministry said in a statement. On a cumulative basis, collections during April-November were 17% lower, sharply down from the lows of 56% seen in April when the lockdown was in full force. “The trend continues to reinforce the belief that economy is recovering fast. Now that the festival season is over, one would have to see if December collection is also buoyant. The other encouraging aspect is a gradual increase in number of GST returns that are now getting filed which indicates that overall compliance level is improving with increased use of technology and initiatives such as e-invoicing by the government,” said Pratik Jain, who leads the indirect tax practice at consulting firm PwC India. There are fears that the demand revival that was seen over the last two-three months may not sustain as the effect of pent-up demand and festival-related purchases wears off. In fact, this was manifested in the number of e-way bills generated during the month, which was the lowest since August. In November 5.5 crore e-way bills were issued, compared to 6.4 crore in the previous month. Data for November showed wide variation in state-wise mop up with some of the top grossers faring poorly. “There is a decline in collections in key states such as Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Telengana, which could indicate that the revival in economic activities has not been uniform across the country as Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Odisha have recorded increase in collections during the same period,” said M S Mani, senior director at Deloitte India. Watch GST collections at Rs 1.05 lakh crore in November||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gst-mop-up-around-rs-1-05-lakh-crore-in-november/articleshow/79520398.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Entire population may not need to be vaccinated: ICMR||NEW DELHI: It may not be necessary to vaccinate the entire population with Covid-19 vaccine as inoculating a critical mass of people might be enough to break the chain of viral transmission, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said on Tuesday. Dr Bhargava and health secretary Rajesh Bhushan also said a decision is yet to be taken on whether those who have been infected by the disease and recovered need to be administered the vaccine. While this might rationalise vaccine use, WHO literature said there is no need to measure anti-bodies before vaccination nor is there a need to find out if a person was infected. “Our purpose is to break the chain of transmission. So, if we are able to vaccinate a critical mass of people and break the virus transmission then we may not have to vaccinate the entire population," Dr Bhargava said. Asked about a time-line for vaccinating the entire population, Bhushan said the government has not said the entire country will be inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine. “It's important that we discuss such scientific issues, based on factual information only,” Bhushan said. The government plans to vaccinate around 25-30 crore "priority" population including healthcare and front-line workers, elderly population and those with co-morbidities in around six months once the vaccine is rolled out and available for use. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 is also deliberating on whether people who have already recovered from the disease and carry antibodies need to be inoculated. Dr Bhargava said the matter is under discussion globally and though there is evidence that there may not be any adverse event if those who were infected are vaccinated, it would help the government spare limited doses in the initial phase of vaccination. There is strong evidence so far that those who have been infected are not likely to get Covid-19 again as long as they observe some basic precautions. “WHO has clearly stated in all its solidarity vaccine trials that we do not need to measure the antibodies or we do not even need to find out whether the person has had Covid. This is what they have said as of now,” Dr Bhargava said. While preparations are in full swing for procurement, storage, distribution and administration of the Covid-19 vaccine, government continues to stress on the importance of wearing masks even after the vaccine is approved. “Role of mask is vitally important and that will continue even after the vaccination because we are starting with a small population at a time. Therefore, mask will be protective and continue to be used so as to help in breaking the chain of viral transmission,” Dr Bhargava said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/entire-population-may-not-need-to-be-vaccinated-icmr/articleshow/79520511.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 2, 2020||India||Non-notification of government policies violates Article 14: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Announcement of policy decisions, be it for industry or otherwise, cannot be allowed to go up in thin air after the political purpose is served, and must be notified by governments within a reasonable timeframe, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indu Malhotra said policy decisions announced by governments were solemn promises to citizens and various sectors of industries, which had a legitimate expectation for implementation of the promises. Public authorities must be held accountable for the promises made, the bench said while criticising the Jharkhand government for delaying implementation of the Industrial Policy 2012 promising rebate in electricity tariff to industrial units, by three years. Writing the judgment, Justice Chandrachud said the doctrine of legitimate expectation was much wider in its play. “Representations by public authorities need to be held to scrupulous standards since citizens continue to live their lives based on the trust they repose in the state. In the commercial world also, certainty and consistency are essential to planning the affairs of business. When public authorities fail to adhere to their representations without providing an adequate reason to citizens for this failure, it violates the trust reposed by citizens in the state. The generation of a business-friendly climate for investment and trade is conditioned by the faith which can be reposed in government to fulfil the expectations which it generates,” he said. On the promised relief by the Jharkhand government, he said, “The state having held out a solemn representation in the above terms, it would be manifestly unfair and arbitrary to deprive industrial units within the state of their legitimate entitlement. The state government did, as a matter of fact, issue a statutory notification under Section 9 but by doing so prospectively, with effect from January 8, 2015, it negated the nature of the representation which was held out in the Industrial Policy 2012.” The bench said that in a democracy, it was impermissible for governments to exhibit a colonial mindset of whimsically handing out doles. It also said non-implementation of policy announcements in a timely manner could be held arbitrary and violative of the right to equality guaranteed under Article 14. “The state must discard the colonial notion that it is a sovereign handing out doles at its will... In all its actions, the state is bound to act fairly, in a transparent manner. This is an elementary requirement of the guarantee against arbitrary state action which Article 14 of the Constitution adopts. A deprivation of the entitlement of private citizens and private business must be proportional to a requirement grounded in public interest,” the bench said. Due to the failure of the Jharkhand government to issue a notification within the stipulated time and by the grant of the exemption only prospectively, the expectation and trust in the state stood violated. Since the state has offered no justification... we hold that such a course of action by the state is arbitrary and is violative of Article 14, Justice Chandrachud said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/non-notification-of-government-policies-violates-article-14-supreme-court/articleshow/79520732.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 2, 2020||India||Ayush medics can prescribe drugs for Covid prevention: Government||NEW DELHI: The Union government on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that Ayurveda, unani and homoeopathy practitioners can prescribe drugs for prevention of Covid-19 by boosting immunity but cannot claim that their medicines can cure such patients. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah that Ayush practitioners have been provided with norms to prescribe drugs for boosting immunity or for symptomatic treatment of Covid-19 patients. “While approving the medicines, the Ayush ministry had clarified that it could not be claimed that these medicines can cure Covid-19,” Mehta said. The bench said all Ayush practitioners must adhere to the norms. The Ayush ministry said homoeopathic medical practitioners were permitted to prescribe drugs, as mentioned in the guidelines, as an add-on to the conventional treatment for patients who had tested positive. Since it has approved prescription of homoeopathic medication as an add-on treatment, the only embargo is that the said medicines should not be administered or advertised as a cure but should be administered as preventive measure/immunity booster, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ayush-medics-can-prescribe-drugs-for-covid-prevention-government/articleshow/79520775.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 2, 2020||India||Covid cases down 32% in November, but India still No. 2 globally||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 infections in India declined by 32% in November as compared to previous month, but India still recorded the second-highest case count in the world for the month. India reported nearly 12.8 lakh cases in November, second only to the US, where the pandemic surged to unprecedented levels with the country logging 44.8 lakh cases — the highest in any nation for any month since the outbreak. France reported the third highest Covid numbers at 8.5 lakh, followed by Brazil (8 lakh) and Russia (6.8 lakh). Meanwhile, daily cases in India remained below 40,000 for the third day running, with 36,440 fresh infections reported on Tuesday. The total caseload in the country rose to 94,99,450, as per data collated from state governments. The daily count of cases was 31,249 on Monday and 39,192 the day before. The trend of slight decrease in cases seen over the past two weeks appeared to be continuing. The death toll, however, rose to 500 on Tuesday. Fatalities had remained below 500 in the past five days. Maharashtra had the highest toll on Tuesday with 95 deaths reported in the state, followed by Delhi (86), Bengal (52), Chhattisgarh (31) and Haryana (28). Deaths also surged in Himachal Pradesh, with the hill state reporting 21 fatalities from the virus on Tuesday. Kerala logged the highest tally of fresh cases at 5,375, followed by Maharashtra (4,930), Delhi (4,006) and Bengal (3,315). For the first time in seven months, Mumbai recorded less than 10 Covid-related deaths in a 24-hour span. On Tuesday, Mumbai saw nine Covid deaths, taking the city’s toll to 10,893. Maharashtra recorded 95 deaths, a marginal increase from Monday’s 80 deaths, taking the toll to 47,246.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-down-32-in-november-but-india-still-no-2-globally/articleshow/79520790.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Patna||Road mishap cases spike in Bihar||PATNA: The number of road accident victims reaching the PMCH emergency department has shot up by about 30% since Chhath. This spike in trauma cases has led to a shortage of beds in the hospital with many victims getting emergency treatment for saving their lives lying on the floor. On Tuesday, 30 such accident victims underwent emergency treatment on the floor. “There are 50 beds in the emergency, but we undertook the treatment of 80 on Tuesday,” Dr Abhijit Singh, the chief casualty medical officer of PMCH, said. Singh further said these victims are mostly bikers who met with accidents on highways across the state and the local hospitals referred them here for better and specialized treatment. He added that despite the shortage of space, the emergency department provided mattress to all those accommodated for saving their lives and after improvement in their condition forwarded them to the wards concerned. A majority of the casualties had external injuries and fractures while some had neurological complications which were taken care of by the doctors of the neurosurgery department. “The return journey after Chhath and the marriage season led to rush of vehicular traffic on highways and other roads and it, in turn, pushed the number of accident cases,” Singh said. The head of neurosurgery at PMCH and former vice-chancellor of the Aryabhatta Knowledge University, Dr AK Agrawal, confirmed the rise in neurological cases of accident victims reaching his department due to a rush on the roads which remained deserted during the lockdown. Festivals added to the road traffic and subsequently the number of accidents. “Road accidents mostly led to polytrauma including head, bone and abdominal injuries and neurological injuries which required immediate treatment,” Agrawal said. Dr Agrawal, however, feared that the number of road accident victims reaching the PMCH might increase further with the dip in temperature and poor visibility due to foggy conditions. Trauma cases due to road accidents are also reaching the Nalanda medical college and hospital (NMCH) but in low number compared to the PMCH. Dr SK Sinha, head of the orthopaedic department of the NMCH said at least five to six cases of road accidents have been coming every day since the Chhath festival. "The NMCH resumed normal medical services since last month after remaining a dedicated Covid hospital for about six months, people were either hesitant or unaware and so emergency cases were taken to PMCH or private hospitals," Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/road-mishap-cases-spike-in-bihar/articleshow/79516861.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Patna||Bypoll in Bihar: LJP turns down RJD’s offer||PATNA: The LJP on Tuesday officially turned down the RJD offer to support the candidature of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s widow Reena Paswan if their son Chirag Paswan agreed to field her against BJP’s Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) in the byelection for the Rajya Sabha seat from Bihar. “Byelection is to be held for the Rajya Sabha seat, which fell vacant after the death of LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan. The seat was for the LJP founder. When the founder is no more, it is for BJP to decide whom it wants to give the seat ... Some RJD friends have talked about extending support to LJP candidate for this seat. The party is thankful for their support but no one from LJP wants to contest for this Rajya Sabha seat,” LJP made it clear through its two official tweets on Tuesday. The seat had fallen vacant after the death of Ram Vilas on October 8 this year. The LJP tweets put at rest all speculations about any possible contest as former deputy CM SuMo is set to file his nomination papers on Wednesday and is most likely to sail through the election process unopposed, as the RJD-led opposition did not appear to be in a mood to field its candidate for the December 14 bypoll. SuMo will file his papers before the state assembly secretariat secretary Rajkumar Singh at 12.30pm. The last date for the filing of nomination papers is December 3. In case of no other candidate files papers, SuMo will be declared elected on December 7, the last date of withdrawing the nomination papers. State BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said CM Nitish Kumar and senior NDA leaders, including state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, as well as other ministers, will accompany SuMo. While Modi’s election to the Rajya Sabha appeared to be a certainty, the media and other speculative circles appeared agog around the question if the RJD-led opposition will also field its candidate. The two names doing the rounds were former minister Shyam Rajak and Anil Kumar Sadhu, a relative of Ram Vilas. “If LJP chief Chirag Paswan had decided to field his mother, then our party and other alliance partners could have given a thought to it, but that is not happening. The seat, in any case, belongs to the BJP and its alliance partner JD(U),” a state RJD spokesman said. As to Chirag himself, he is likely to wait till the central Cabinet reshuffle, hoping for a berth for LJP in it. Only after that, he would unravel his next political line and options, observers feel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bypoll-for-rs-seat-ljp-turns-down-rjd-offer-sumo-to-file-papers-today/articleshow/79516914.cms||Abhay Singh
December 2, 2020||Patna||IIT-Patna student grabs Rs 43.5 lakh package from Microsoft||PATNA: Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, which has resulted in thousands of job losses, placement offers are picking up the pace at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and the National Institute of Technology (NIT) in Patna. During Phase I of an ongoing placement drive at the IIT-P, nearly 40% of final year BTech students from five different branches — electrical, civil, mechanical, chemical and computer science and engineering (CSE) — have received lucrative job offers. Microsoft has offered the highest package of Rs 43.5 lakh per annum to a CSE student, followed by D E Shaw that has given a package worth Rs 40 lakh per annum to another CSE student. While seven other students have been offered an annual package of Rs 32 lakh each, six have grabbed yearly packages worth Rs 31 lakh each from Amazon. IIT-P’s training and placement officer Kripa Shankar Singh told this newspaper on Tuesday that 75% students of the CSE branch had been placed. “Phase I of the placement drive will continue till December-end and Phase II begin from mid-January. Altogether 35 companies have conducted online interviews and tests and 17 more shared their job descriptions,” Singh said and added that two international firms were likely to give job offers to the students in the second phase of the recruitment drive. In the previous batch, three IIT-P students had been offered an annual package of Rs 59 lakh each by a Japanese multinational company. The undergraduate students of NIT-P also have a reason to rejoice as 75% of them have got job offers amid the pandemic. Amazon has given an annual package of Rs 31 lakh each to three CSE students. NIT-P placement officer Samrat Mukherjee claimed that the average package offered to the students this year stood at Rs 6.3 lakh per annum. “As many as 35 firms have shown interest in recruiting our students so far. More reputed companies, including international giants, are expected to participate in the placement drive in January,” he added. Describing the “hectic” process of recruitment amid the pandemic, Mukherjee said, “We have created WhatsApp groups whose members include students of different branches, HRs of companies and coordinators. The coding tests, interviews and group discussions are organized with the help of mobile apps.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-patna-student-grabs-rs-43-5-lakh-annual-package-from-microsoft/articleshow/79516720.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 2, 2020||Business||Pandemic e-tail push creates 3 lakh delivery, supply chain jobs||BENGALURU: The pandemic-induced demand for e-commerce created 2.5-3 lakh temporary delivery and supply chain jobs in India during the recently concluded festive season sales, according to data from staffing firm TeamLease. These include the aggressive hiring led by e-commerce major Amazon India and other e-tailers — as well as third-party logistics firms — from May till Diwali. For e-tailers, this hiring was 30-40% higher than last year. While e-commerce operators were hit during the lockdown as the government allowed only essentials to be sold online, they made a sharp recovery after May as more consumers bought goods on their platforms sitting at home. This was a mix of increased purchases from existing e-buyers and a significant chunk of offline retail demand coming online. Estimates from TeamLease showed 15-20% of these seasonal jobs, typically created to meet the festive season rush, are likely to be renewed or extended going into 2021. These roles typically pay Rs 20,000-25,000 per month. The seasonal jobs are usually for anywhere between three and six months. Industry executives and analysts said the e-commerce sector will continue to create such roles at a steady pace as demand remains strong for online purchases. According to market research firm Forrester, the e-commerce market is estimated to see a higher growth of around 25% next year to $42 billion compared to a 7-8% growth in 2020 at around $33.5 billion, hit by lockdown. In 2019, the industry was over $31 billion in size. Amazon India is estimated to have hired 70,000-75,000 workers during the pandemic. This includes replacing existing vacant positions in its supply chain network. Amazon India had said it hired over a lakh such people, but this includes call centre executives to address consumer queries. Flipkart had announced hiring estimates of 70,000, while other logistics players like Delhivery and Ecom Express announced hiring around 15,000 and 30,000 respectively. “Whatever volume (shipments) is there in terms of the new normal will continue. After the relaxation, every month has been better than the previous ones. While traditional retail may take longer to recover, these volumes will hold till next season. We would have retained 10-15% of our seasonal hiring,” said Ecom Express co-founder and CEO T A Krishnan. According to him, future monthly hiring would depend on sales in the next two quarters, but overall it may be higher by 30-50% in 2021. During this year’s festive season, peak order volume was 7.5 million a day compared to around 4.5 million last year. A spokesperson of Amazon India said it will “continue to create additional opportunities across the network based on customer demand”. The e-tail giant did not specify numbers for 2021. In a separate blog, Amazon said its India operations team, as part of a global programme, will get additional payments as incentives. This will be applicable to both full-time and part-time employees who worked during October 16-November 13. “E-commerce is still going to drive job growth for multiple reasons. First, existing companies are catching more consumers. A lot of offline brands are building their e-commerce team, albeit small, and then one can expect Reliance to push hiring growth for online grocery (JioMart) and the potential entry of Tata would further scale that up,” said Forrester senior forecast analyst Satish Meena. Tata Group is reportedly looking to acquire a majority stake in online grocer Bigbasket. A senior executive of a vertical e-commerce player said his firm was expecting higher sales from January as it sells niche products focused on kids. “Based on inquiries and current sales trends, we are expecting to hit higher gross sale numbers in the next two months,” he added. Watch Pandemic induced demand for e-commerce creates 3 lakh delivery, supply chain jobs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-e-tail-push-creates-3l-delivery-supply-chain-jobs/articleshow/79518721.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 2, 2020||Patna||Cabinet expansion likely after RS bypoll or in January||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar will go for the first cabinet expansion and reshuffle either before December 15 or after Makar Sankranti (January 14), sources in JD(U) and BJP said on Tuesday. “Technically, till December 14, the BJP and JD(U) leadership will be busy in the Rajya Sabha election of Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo). If he is declared elected unopposed by December 7, the leadership of the two parties will go for the first cabinet reshuffle,” a BJP source said. December 7 is the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers for the RS seat. So, far no political party or combination has announced its candidate against BJP’s SuMo. “If the cabinet reshuffle is not done by December 15, then one will have to wait for a month, because the inauspicious monthlong period of ‘kharmas’ will continue till January 14,” a BJP source explained, adding that Nitish and the BJP leadership cannot afford to wait for that long. As the BJP circles felt, many BJP and JD(U) MLAs are eagerly waiting to see the inclusion of their names in the state cabinet. The feeling of expectation is more accentuated in the BJP circles. By virtue of having a substantially greater number of seats than the JD(U) in the assembly — BJP has 74 against JD(U)’s 43 MLAs — the saffron party is expecting more ministerial berths compared to JD(U). The total strength of the council of ministers at any point of time can only be 15% of the 243-member assembly — that is 36. In accordance with the number of MLAs, BJP can hope to have 22 ministers, including the two deputy ministers it has. Nitish, on November 16, took oath as the CM along with 14 others as ministers — 7 from BJP, 5 from JD(U) and one each of HAM(S) and VIP. The 7 BJP ministers included two deputy CMs — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi. However, JD(U)’s Mewa Lal Choudhary had to resign as a minister as he was facing “corruption charges”. Curiously, the party’s central leadership sidetracked the claims of the party’s elders and former ministers, like Nand Kishore Yadav and Prem Kumar, for the ministerial berths. The critical point for the BJP is if the party’s elder former ministers will be accommodated in the cabinet reshuffle, as and when it takes place, and also who among the MLAs will be given the prized place, observers felt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-expansion-likely-after-rs-bypoll-or-in-january/articleshow/79517010.cms||Abhay Singh
December 2, 2020||Patna||December 15 last date to submit forms: NOU||PATNA: Nalanda Open University (NOU) has extended the last date of online submission of application forms for admission to its different courses at undergraduate and postgraduate level for 2020-21 session till December 15. NOU joint registrar A N Pandey said the decision was taken on the request of several admission seekers from rural areas as they could not submit their applications on time due to festivals and non-procurement of required documents from the institutions concerned. Nearly 15,000 candidates have already applied for admission to as many as 109 courses running in the university, he said. The university has already started counselling classes for students of different courses admitted in the last academic session. Their examinations would also commence shortly and the programme has already been announced, Pandey added. Meanwhile, Patna University (PU) is also likely to extend the last date of online submission of admission forms for its postgradaute academic programmes under regular conventional mode. The last date ended on Monday, but a large number of students have not yet been able to apply as the results of their degree examinations are yet to be cleared by the university. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha said the results of Degree Part II examinations were to be published by the end of November and those students whose Degree Part III examination results were kept pending for want of pass marks in Degree II examinations would become eligible to apply. However, the evaluation of answerbooks of Degree Part II examinations held recently was still going on. Therefore, it would take some more time before the admission aspirants would be in a position to apply after publication of Part II examination results, said Jha. Admission to the PG courses running under self-financial mode is already going on as it is made on the basis of entrance tests. Similarly, admission of students to various undergraduate courses made on the basis of entrance test is also going on and the same is likely to be completed by mid-December, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/december-15-last-date-to-submit-forms-nou/articleshow/79516810.cms||B K Mishra
December 2, 2020||Patna||No end to traffic snarls in Bagaha due to lack of RoB||BAGAHA: The narrow level crossing on the Narkatiaganj-Gorakhpur rail section under Samastipur division of the East Central Railway, which is located in the densely populated Naraipur locality and virtually the only way to enter Bagaha town from the west and the north, has been facing frequent traffic congestion. When the gate of the level crossing is shut during the arrival of trains, there is hardly any space left on the road for pedestrians due to long queues of overloaded trucks, tractors and buses. The situation worsens when goods trains cross the area as a result of which the gate is closed for nearly 30 minutes. Farmers claim that they are the worst sufferers as they are facing frequent traffic snarls in the sugar cane crushing season. They blame the local MLA and the MP for the situation and urge the district administration to divert heavy traffic from the area. Ward councillor Nandesh Pandey says, “In February 2019, Union minister Nitin Gadkari had laid the foundation for two rail overbridges (RoBs) — one in Naraipur at an estimated cost Rs 62.48 crore and the other in Mangalpur at a cost of Rs 68.49 crore. However, the bidding process is yet to start.” Meeting held: A meeting was recently held at the office of Bagaha SDM, ShekharAnand, for finding a solution to the problem of frequent traffic jams. SDPO Kailash Prasad and others shared their views and decided that the entry of cane-loaded vehicles would be prohibited in the town from 8am to 7pm every day. However, traffic snarls continue to happen frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-end-to-traffic-snarls-in-bagaha-due-to-lack-of-rob/articleshow/79517052.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
December 2, 2020||Patna||Govt invites private players to open driving training centres||PATNA: The state transport department plans to open 61 private motor vehicle driving training centres in all the districts, department’s secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Tuesday. He said individuals and private establishments will be invited to open such training centres. “Quite often drivers, due to lack of proper training, commit mistakes leading to accidents. Thus, it is essential to provide proper training to drivers in order to prevent road accidents,” Agarwal said. As per the proposal, training for driving light motor vehicle (LMV) will be provided at the training centres through simulators as well as tracks. The districts have been divided into three categories — big districts to have three such centres in ‘A’, with two centres in ‘B’ and having one centre in category ‘C’. The districts in category ‘A’ are Patna, Muzaffarpur, Gaya, Purnia and Bhagalpur. Vaishali, Siwan, Samastipur, Rohtas, Motihari, Darbhanga, Bettiah, Bhojpur, Aurangabad, Begusarai, Gopalganj, Madhubani and Nalanda have been placed in category ‘B’ and Arwal, Araria, Banka, Buxar, Jamui, Jehanabad, Kaimur, Katihar, Khagaria, Kishanganj, Lakhisarai, Madhepura, Munger, Nawada, Saharsa, Sheikhpura, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Supaul and Gopalganj in category ‘C’. “Financial assistance to the tune of Rs20 lakh or 50% of the total investment, whichever is higher, will be provided to the willing individuals and establishments to open such centres,” Agarwal said, adding that this scheme will also provide employment opportunities in private sector. The centres will be based on advanced technologies and have been proposed even at those places where no such training facility is available. “All the centres will have simulators for imparting training,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-invites-private-players-to-open-driving-training-centres/articleshow/79516877.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Surat||‘Doctors, not insurer decide treatment’||Surat: The Valsad District Consumer Redressal Commission (VDCRC) has directed United India Insurance Co Ltd to pay a claim amount of Rs 1.15 lakh to a woman from Silvassa in Dadra & Nagar Haveli, ruling that doctors advice for hospitalization is part of the patient’s treatment. The insurance firm had in May 2019 rejected the claim of Dipali Vasaya on the grounds that her treatment for four-day at Mumbai-based Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital did not require hospitalization. Vasaya got chest pain and fell unconscious on September 14, 2018, and was taken to Kokila Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital in Mumbai. She was admitted on the advice of the doctor there and was discharged on September 18, 2018. Her hospital treatment bill was Rs 1.15 lakh. As she had medical insurance of Rs 5 lakh from United India Insurance Co, she claimed reimbursement. However, the insurance firm rejected her claim in May 2019. “The procedure or treatment usually done in Out Patient Department are not payable under the policy even if converted as an in-patient in the hospital for more then 24 hours or carried out in Day Care Centre,” the firm contended. Vasaya had approached Valsad District Consumer Redressal Commission in October 2019. VDCRC ruled, “The patient was hospitalised on the advice of the doctor and expenses incurred is related to medical treatment and the treatment was based on doctor’s advice and it is a part of the treatment and therefore complainant is entitled to get reimbursement claim amount with 7.5% interest effective from October 2019.” It also ordered the insurance company to pay Rs 2,500 to the complainant for the mental stress and complaint fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doctors-not-insurer-decide-treatment/articleshow/79517006.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||Keep records of paddy & wetlands, krishi bhavans told||Palakkad: Agriculture department has directed krishi bhavans to keep a register of the conversion of paddy and wetland in the district under Kerala Conservation of Paddy and Wetland Act (2008). With the Act, government aimed to conserve paddy and wetland and restrict the conversion or reclamation to promote growth in agricultural sector and sustain the ecological system. The GO issued by secretary of agri department said that krishi bhavans should keep a record of all conversions of paddy land in its register and the principal agriculture officer of the District should examine the register once in three months. The order was issued after there were complaints about large-scale illegal conversion of paddy and wetland in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/keep-records-of-paddy-wetlands-krishi-bhavans-told/articleshow/79517896.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vadodara||Auto driver arrested for molesting minor girl||Vadodara: A 55-year-old autorickshaw driver was arrested on Tuesday for alegedly molesting a minor girl at her home on Ajwa Road. The incident occurred when the 14-year-old girl was alone at her home on Monday evening. The police said that the accused identified as Dinesh Bhavsar used to ferry the girl to her school in his auto. On Monday evening, Bhavsar visited her home and asked for a glass of water. The girl gave him water and also offered a cup of tea. The accused then asked the girl to sit in his lap. When she refused, he began molesting her. The girl panicked following which Bhavsar left the spot. The girl then narrated the incident to her parents who registered offence against Bhavsar at Bapod police station on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/auto-driver-arrested-for-molesting-minor-girl/articleshow/79516645.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Business||Cos’ purpose will draw talent post-Covid, not posh offices||By Paul DupuisA recent McKinsey research revealed some interesting changes in attitude on the role of the office. As many as 80% of those surveyed indicated that they enjoyed working from home (WFH), with 41% asserting it made them more productive. Many organisations felt they could not only slash real-estate costs, but access newer talent pools without the constraints of location. What started off as a compulsion to ‘keep the lights on’ at work has now become the world’s biggest WFH experiment. Google, Facebook, Amazon and Ford have recently extended their WFH option until mid-2021. Twitter’s new WFH policy allows employees to work from home permanently.Across enterprises, large and small, this leaves leaders with an interesting question: Do we really need to go back to the office as we knew it earlier? Bringing purpose back to ‘presenteeism’ Every crisis is an opportunity. This is a mantra I have consistently lived by in my professional journey. Today, Covid has shown this to be true again. As we moved from the urgency of restore and recover to thriving in a new normal in the last six months, the notion of the office has been transformed. Traditionally, for many organisations, the office has been the physical space that projects what their business stands for. Well-appointed offices in the right locations, a funky set-up with attractive features — these were defining signatures for companies. All this is rapidly changing and, in the bigger scheme of future-proofing work, they will become non-issues. Let’s for a moment step back into the pre-Covid period. The concept of ‘flexible’ and ‘gig’ work had already seized the imagination of many organisations and leaders. We had already been talking about a ‘hub-and-spoke’ model in the future of work. In one sweep, Covid has mandatorily fast-forwarded that thinking. The future that we were mulling about has been catapulted into the present. Purpose will steer a new meaning for ‘presenteeism’. The office will not be just ‘where’ and ‘how’ we work. It will be the ‘why’ of our work — an integrated philosophy of purpose, talent, culture and leadership. The questions we will ask ourselves will be different. How strong is our North Star? What is the positive impact we can make in this world? And this will also be the critical edge to attract the right talent. Research has shown that an organisation’s purpose matters most to the millennial and Gen Z segments of the workforce. Ushering in a redefined ‘culture of collaboration’ As challenging as it was in the beginning, both employers and employees have found that work can happen efficiently from remote locations, and virtual collaboration can work. My organisation, for example, has been in the ‘people’ business for 60 years, and we have always focused on the ‘touch’ element. The office, to us, is a place for face-to-face interactions to build lasting relationships. Being forced to work together virtually was very new to us, as for many others. Yet, we have shown tremendous creativity, ingenuity and agility in the way we have virtually hired and on-boarded bright, young and ambitious graduates, and given them a sense of belonging to what we stand for. But here is another truth about employees’ mental well-being. We are social beings — and being together matters. While people have learnt to bring work focus even at home, they have missed the socialising and the impromptu interactions of a shared work experience and ‘in-the-moment’ learning and mentoring that they bring. At the end of the day, as humans, we will need to connect with something tangible and real. We will want to step out of our desks and engage with our colleagues — because that’s where our emotional connections get built. It’s therefore time to explore opportunities of building psychic equity in a hybrid work environment. ‘Work from remote’ and virtual engagement will be an integral part of the post-Covid normal, but we can still build a new culture of collaboration. This calls for an additional dimension of leadership. Beyond building high-performing teams, leaders will face a new ask — of being more compassionate. Compassion is one step beyond empathy, it is about action to inspire, motivate, measure and ultimately support their teams. Compassion quotient — this will be the leader’s new guiding star. As we safely return to work, the office brings re-imagined possibilities. The concept of the office is still important and will be a necessary part of any organisation. But its role will change. It will no longer be a place where you report to, for work. Rather, it will be a place for communication, collaboration and celebration. (The writer is MD and CEO, Randstad India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cos-purpose-will-draw-talent-post-covid-not-posh-offices/articleshow/79519662.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Business||Rohatgi advises fresh bids for DHFL||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai:DHFL lenders are likely to accept revised bids for the troubled mortgage company following a legal opinion received by them from former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi. Sources said that lenders have set December 12 as the deadline for the revised bids. The legal opinion follows a controversy over Adani Properties revising its bid for the company after the last date for submitting bids. Lenders had published the invitation for expression of interest on January 28 this year, for which the last date was February 17. From the bidders, a list of prospective resolution applicants was prepared, and they were asked to submit resolution plans by September 16. Bidders could either bid for the whole company or parts of it. Four bidders — Oaktree’s India Opportunities Investment, Piramal Capital & Housing Finance, Adani Properties and SC Lowy had submitted their applications on October 17, which was the extended date for submission. After negotiations with creditors, the four bidders submitted revised plans on November 9. However, in their subsequent bid, the Adani Group had bid for the whole company and not just the projects that they had sought in their earlier bid. Adani’s bid resulted in the other three bidders protesting and threatening to withdraw their resolution plans. In his opinion, Rohatgi said that the committee of creditors must open all revised bids received, including that of Adani as the idea under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code is to have a healthy competition among applicants and to ensure maximisation of the value of assets of the corporate debtor. Rohatgi has recommended that the creditors give an additional seven days to other bidders to put in a revised bid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rohatgi-advises-fresh-bids-for-dhfl/articleshow/79518449.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 2, 2020||Business||Robust sales of bikes, cars in Octrevive motor insurance business||Chennai: Robust festive demand and a gradual rise in freight volumes revives motor insurance business in October, 2020. After a muted business in the first half, impacted by the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, insurers say fear of contracting the virus through public transport has led to surge in mid-segment cars and two-wheelers sales, further leading to revival in motor insurance business.For the industry, premium collections were driven by a 20% yoy growth in private car business and a 15% yoy growth in two-wheeler business. “The share of business from commercial vehicles is down from 30% to 15% as compared to March levels. However, the share of business from private cars and two-wheelers has filled the gap,” says Aditya Sharma, business head of motor, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.SBI reported a 48% yoy growth in motor led by 94% yoy increase in purchase of third party (TP) policies. ICICI Lombard saw a 12% yoy growth, driven by new tie-ups with new OEMs. Other insurers including Acko and Go Digit witnessed 40% and 24% increase in motor business. While Tata AIG was up 28% yoy; continued improvement over the past few months, a research report of Kotak Institutional Equities said. Head of motor insurance business of Acko General Insurance, Animesh Das, attributed the growth in premium collection to OD business (or own damage) in this festive season. He said “We have seen equal growth in both third party damage (TP) and OD insurance premium underwriting in the festive season. In the initial months of lockdown business from TP was higher, when people were not purchasing new policies.” Acko said OD business contributes to over 60% of its business. On claims applied for motor insurance, Sharma said it was 20% less compared to pre-Covid levels till the month of September. “However, we expect it to reach the pre-Covid levels in November. And 1%-2% of claims are found to be fabricated post the lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/robust-sales-of-bikes-cars-in-octrevive-motor-insurance-business/articleshow/79518339.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 2, 2020||Patna||Patna: Illegal structures razed to ground||PATNA: Several structures, including few boundary walls that had been built on encroached parts of different roads and lanes, were razed to the ground on Tuesday, Day 4 of an eviction drive launched by the district administration. Officials of the Patna Municipal Corporation and the police department monitored the drive in different residential and commercial areas of the city. According to Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi, the eviction drive, which began on Saturday, picked up the pace on Tuesday. “We identified the places that were encroached upon and led to frequent traffic snarls. We roped in three teams with 50 workers and 150 cops for getting rid of the encroachments,” the DM told this reporter. Some areas, which were freed from encroachments, included the multipurpose parking lot behind the New Market, an illegally constructed boundary wall near Pani Tanki as well as makeshift stalls and eateries on Boring Road. At many places, extended verandas that were part of residential and commercial buildings were also demolished. “The problem of traffic congestion aggravated after the Covid-19 lockdown because several temporary structures came up on prominent roads,” Ravi said, adding that the anti-encroachment drive would continue in localities like Boring Canal Road, Bailey Road, Kankarbagh, Ashok Rajpath and Kadamkuan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/illegal-structures-razed-to-ground/articleshow/79516793.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Business||WhatsApp Pay off to slow start, has under 1% share||BENGALURU: WhatsApp’s payments service in India through the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) is off to a slow start in its first month on the network with less than 1% volume share. This comes when it is still in the process of gradually rolling out its payments service to the current limit of 20 million users. Till November 4, it was restricted to 1 million users only. It is estimated to have clocked under 20 million transactions last month, two sources said. Overall, UPI saw 2.2 billion transactions in November compared to 2.1 billion in October, registering a growth of close to 7%, according to data from National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI. “They (WhatsApp) are scaling it slowly and it is yet to hit the maximum limit of users allowed in the first phase,” a person aware of the matter said. WhatsApp has 400 million monthly active users in India and got the approval to start payments after two and a half years due to regulatory issues. For now, it allows peer-to-peer payments only and peer-to-merchant payments haven’t been enabled. A WhatsApp Pay spokesperson declined to comment on its monthly transactions. Besides UPI numbers, IMPS, which just completed 10 years, saw 339 million transactions last month compared to almost 319 million in October. Utility payments through Bharat BillPay were largely flat at close to 24 million in November. FasTag, which indicates vehicle movement across the country, saw nearly 125 million transactions in November compared to little over 122 million in October. UPI is largely dominated by Google Pay and Walmart-owned PhonePe, who together control over 80% of transaction volume, while Amazon Pay and Paytm are other major names. Overall, UPI is said to have about 100-120 million users. To control dominance of third-party payments apps on UPI, the NPCI last month said it will implement a 30% cap on total payment volumes through a single third-party payments app from January 1, 2021. For existing third-party apps on UPI, they will get two years to comply till January 2023. For WhatsApp and other future apps on UPI, this will apply from next January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-pay-off-to-slow-start-has-under-1-share/articleshow/79518139.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 2, 2020||Patna||Recruitment of officers begins in Munger University||PATNA: The Munger University has recently initiated the process for contractual appointment of officers and supporting staff. The university reportedly resorted to the process of appointment on contract basis as the state government had some time back instructed the state universities not to go in for regular appointment of non-teaching staff as a move is a foot to constitute a state-level commission for the appointment of officers and other supporting staff on the pattern of Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) meant for appointment of teachers in colleges and universities. The varsity constituted a nine-member selection committee with a nominee of the chancellor and representatives from SC/ST, minority and women. As many as 73 retired people having requisite qualifications had applied for appointment against altogether 38 posts, including those of assistant registrar, assistant finance officer, librarian, section officers and stenographers and out of them 49 shortlisted candidates were called for an interview. As the selection committee could not judge the writing skill of the candidates just on the basis of interview, it was decided to hold a writing ability test. As many as 32 applicants took the written test. The selection committee members were, however, shocked to find the spelling howlers in the answer scripts of the candidates. While some applicants had spelt ‘college’ as ‘collage’, others had spelt ‘principal’ as ‘principle’. Many other applicants had spelt the word ‘administrative’ as ‘adminisnistrive’. “An ex-serviceman who was asked to write an application for casual leave was caught cheating from a WhatsApp message on his cell phone. He was disqualified from the test,” said vice-chancellor Ranjit Kumar Verma. The VC pointed out that only 13 candidates could be appointed against 38 posts. In an earlier attempt, too, only two candidates were selected, Verma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/recruitment-of-officers-begins-in-munger-university/articleshow/79516834.cms||B K Mishra
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||SI, constable thrashed by corporator in Bareilly||Bareilly: A sub-inspector and a constable investigating a complaint were allegedly beaten up by a corporator and his family members in Bareilly’s Izzatnagar area on Tuesday afternoon. The accused had allegedly locked both policemen in the house and they were rescued after the extra force was called in, said police. Corporator’s family members, on the other hand, alleged that one of the policemen misbehaved with his wife and mother. Following a written complaint lodged by the corporator against the SI, police launched an investigation and found the conduct of both policemen suspicious, said police sources. The corporator claimed that he had lodged a complaint against the SI for “helping mining mafia” in illegal quarrying of sand, and the circle officer 3 was investigating the matter. “The SI and the constable had come to my house and attempted to take me along without having a warrant. He was trying to build pressure on me to withdraw the complaint. When my wife and mother tried to intervene, they misbehaved with them and even vandalised articles in my house. Locals came to our rescue and tore police officers’ uniforms during a scuffle,” alleged the corporator. Additional SP Sansaar Singh said, “A sub-inspector and a constable were beaten up by a corporator in Izzatnagar area when they were investigating a complaint. Their uniforms were torn and they were locked inside a house. A counter complaint was lodged by the other party as well. After the initial investigation, we have transferred the SI to reserve police lines as his acts were not according to law.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/si-constable-thrashed-by-corporator-in-bareilly/articleshow/79516819.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 2, 2020||Patna||8 promoted to IPS rank||PATNA: Altogether eight officers of the 42nd batch of Bihar Police Service (BPS) have been promoted to IPS, according to a notification issued by the Union home ministry on Tuesday. However, two of them — Vishwajeet Dayal and Vijay Kumar — will not be benefited from their promotion due to departmental proceedings initiated against them. The Union Public Service Commission in September had approved the names of R K Dubey, Sheela Irani, Vishwajeet Dayal, Vijay Kumar, Sanjay Bharti, C P Vidyarthi, H M Shukla and Baliram Choudhary for promotion to IPS under state quota. Dubey, who is posted as ADC to the governor, had earlier served as DSP (town) and ASP in Patna. Sheela, who was earlier posted as DSP (town) in Patna, is currently assistant commissioner in Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC). Shukla and Baliram Choudhary had earlier served as SDPO of Patna City. Prior to their postings in Patna City, they were deployed in the chief minister’s security. Authoritative sources said while Dayal is facing a criminal case, Kumar is facing departmental proceedings for lapses on his part in the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-promoted-to-ips-rank/articleshow/79516902.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Business||Kalpathi Group launches edtech co Veranda Learning||Chennai: Kalpathi Group, early entrants in the education businesses who tasted success with IT training entity SSI in the 1990s, launched a new edtech venture Veranda Learning Solutions on Tuesday with an initial investment of Rs 50 crore. Veranda Learning will offer training programs in test preparation for all competitive exams in India and abroad including IIT-JEE, NEET, GRE, TOEFL/ GMAT, IAS, and others. Veranda will also offer courses in software development including learning on databases, languages, development tools, and others. Veranda plans to expand through both organic development and acquisitions route and is targeting an Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) of Rs 100 crore, in the first full year of our operations and projects that it will reach Rs 1,000 crore ARR in 3 years from now. Given the impact of the pandemic and consolidation that's happening in the Indian edtech sector, the group is also working on multiple acquisitions in the space, some of which are in final stages of talks. Suresh Kalpathi, co-founder of Veranda Learning, said the company aims to blend the best of offline and online learning models, and its USP is to offer quality educational content across all channels, and leverage the digital route to focus on outcomes, and be affordable to “real India.” “The company will not be an ‘also-ran’ in the industry and we are bringing the Group’s learning from offline education businesses to this venture...We want to bring the culture of discipline and rigor that’s prevalent in offline learning to the online medium,” he told TOI. The offerings will be priced at least 50% lesser compared to industry averages, he added. The courses will be structured as a mix of video, reading and assessment-based learning. To strengthen fundamentals of learners, Veranda’s tech platform will also use adaptive AI for quizzing- a tech where the difficulty of questions will change depending on the student’s performance. To ensure learner commitment, the platform will also be supported by continuous follow-up from the Veranda faculty, and a mentor will be attached to each learner to measure course outcome. Veranda Learning is currently a staff of 200, and Kalpathi estimates the team size to reach around 600 in the next 12 months. The Group pegs the Indian online education market to grow to around $1.96 billion by 2021, and to $4.87 billion by 2024.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kalpathi-group-launches-edtech-co-veranda-learning/articleshow/79518294.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 2, 2020||Business||Yes Bank eyes 10% in So Hum Bharat||TNN Yes Bank is in talks to pick up a 10% stake in So Hum Bharat Digital Payments, which is applying for a licence of the proposed new umbrella entity (NUE) for digital payments. So Hum Bharat has been set up by ItzCash founder Navin Surya with the backing of Infibeam Avenues. A Yes Bank spokesperson confirmed the development. “We are evaluating a partnership with So Hum Digital, subject to relevant approvals including regulatory. In So Hum and its founder Navin Surya, we believe there are synergies around innovation and the problem-solving spirit, that we feel can accelerate the journey towards a fully digital India,” said Yes Bank global head (transaction banking group) Ajay Rajan. The bank also holds around 1% stake in the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). NUE will challenge NPCI and is expected to offer services like managing ATMs, point-of-sale machines, Aadhaar-based payments and remittances. TOI reported last month that the race for the NUE licence is heating up with the likes of Paytm, HDFC Bank and largest conglomerates likes Reliance, through Jio, and Tata Group evaluating to apply for a licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/yes-bank-eyes-10-in-so-hum-bharat/articleshow/79518328.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Patna||SAP jawan commits suicide in Rohtas dist||PATNA: A 55-year-old SAP jawan Shiv Kumar Ojha committed suicide by shooting himself with a self-loading rifle (SLR) inside a police barrack under Nauhatta police station in Rohtas district on Tuesday. Police said Ojha took the extreme step barely two hours after returning from his native village Pachkaiya under Belsar police outpost in Vaishali district. He had returned to the barrack four days before his sanctioned 10 days leave. Ojha, who returned to the barrack around 4 am, took out his SLR from his box and shot himself around 6 am hitting his chick and neck. Other SAP jawans, who were busy in daily chorus, rushed to the barrack after hearing the sound of gunshot. He, however, died on the spot. Later a police team led by ASP Sanjay Kumar visited the spot and inquired about the incident. The SLR belonging to the deceased jawan was sent for ballistic examination. An FSL team from Patna also collected evidence from the spot. The SHO (in-charge) of Nauhatta police station, N P Singh said that Ojha was deputed at Nahatta police camp after the shifting of CRPF personnel on November 23. He had proceeded on leave and gone to his native village. “Ojha was in duress after returning from home. He talked to a sentry on duty before proceeding towards the police barrack. He shot himself with his SLR before anybody could suspect anything foul,” a police officer associated with the investigation said. The deceased’s wife had committed suicide by setting herself on fire about three months ago. “He was very unhappy with his son, who has, of late, turned into a drug addict,” the investigating officer said. The postmortem was conducted at the Sasaram sadar hospital after the arrival of close relatives of Ojha, who was earlier deputed at Tilauthu police station in Rohtas district. A case of unnatural death (UD) has been lodged with the Nauhatta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sap-jawan-commits-suicide-in-rohtas-dist/articleshow/79517101.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Festival spl train services extended||Madurai: The railway board has approved the extension of the following festival special trains connecting various districts in Tamil Nadu. Train No. 05120 Manduadih – Rameswaram weekly special leaving Manduadih on Sundays will be extended on December 6, 13, 20 and 27 (four services). Train No. 05119 Rameswaram – Manduadih weekly special leaving Rameswaram on Wednesdays will be extended on December 9, 16, 23 and 30 (four services). Train No. 08496 Bhubaneswar – Rameswaram weekly special leaving Bhubaneswar on Fridays will be extended on December 4, 11, 18, and 25 (four services). Train No. 08495 Rameswaram – Bhubaneswar weekly special leaving Rameswaram on Sundays will be extended on December 6, 13, 20 and 27 (four services). Train No. 06232 Mysuru – Mayiladuthurai daily special leaving Mysuru will run from December 1 to 31 (31 services). Train No. 06231 Mayiladuthurai – Mysuru daily special leaving Mayiladuthurai will be extended to run from December 2 to January 1, 2021 (31 services). Train No. 06236 Mysuru – Tuticorin daily special leaving Mysuru will be extended to run from December 1 to 31 (31 services). Train No 06235 Tuticorin- Mysuru daily special leaving Tuticorin will be extended to run from December 2 to January 1, 2021, (31 services). Train No. 06526 KSR Bengaluru – Kanyakumari daily special train leaving Bengaluru will be extended to run from December 1 to 31 (31 services). Train No. 06525 Kanyakumari – KSR Bengaluru daily special train leaving Kanyakumari will be extended from December 3 to January 2 (31 services).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/festival-spl-train-services-extended/articleshow/79519438.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Patna||Home guard jawan shot at near Chhapra jail gate||CHHAPRA: A home guard jawan was shot at by bike-borne miscreants when he was on duty at the outer gate of Chhapra Jail (opposite Chhapra Zila School). In another incident, police recovered the bodies of two youths from Kesri village under the Ekma police station area on Monday night. The injured home guard jawan, Rama Shankar Yadav (55), a resident of local Gudari Mohalla, has been admitted to Chhapra sadar hospital. Based on his statement, an FIR has been lodged with the Bhagwan Bazar police, in which seven persons have been named accused. Saran SP Dhurat Sayali Savlaram said investigation is on but based on the statement of the injured jawan, the incident prima facie appears to be an outcome of personal enmity. The jawan said that three persons came on bike and shot at him while he was on duty on Monday night. He said he has some land dispute with his ‘pattidars (crop sharers)’. In the other incident, under the Ekma police station, the deceased have been identified as Rohit Tiwari (25) and Manoranjan Rai (22), both residents of Kesari village. According to the locals, they were habitual trouble makers during orchestra shows and on Monday night both had gone to attend an orchestra in a marriage ceremony in the village. Saran SP, however, did not confirm any reason behind the incident and said parents of the deceased duo are tightlipped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-shot-at-near-chhapra-jail-gate/articleshow/79516998.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Business||Union Bank completes Corp Bank integration||Mumbai: Union Bank of India has completed the IT integration of Corporation Bank with itself. The bank has said that this is a new record as the process has been completed within just eight months of the amalgamation on April 1, 2020. Following the integration, customers of the erstwhile Corporation Bank can use internet banking, mobile banking, UPI and other digital services of Union Bank. “The migration has been done with least inconvenience to the customers as no change in their account number, debit cards or netbanking credentials were effected.” Although the Corporation Bank branches have been allotted new IFSC codes, the old IFSC codes will continue to work for inward transfers up to March 31, 2021. The government had notified the merger of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank with Union Bank effective April 1, 2020. “This opens huge opportunity for our customers and enhances our capability to offer innovative products and services,” said Union Bank MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai. He also added that according to plan, in the next phase, all branches of e-Andhra Bank shall also migrate to Finacle 10 and the integration is expected to be completed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/union-bank-completes-corp-bank-integration/articleshow/79519827.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 2, 2020||Patna||One more doctor dies of Covid-19 in Bihar||PATNA: One more doctor and four others died due to coronavirus as the state reported 482 new cases on Tuesday. Altogether 38 doctors have died due to Covid infection in the state so far. Retired medical officer Dr Arun Kumar Verma (73) died during the treatment at AIIMS-Patna. The official deaths took the Covid toll in Bihar to 1,268 while the tally reached 2,36,098 in the past 24 hours. The health department reported two deaths from Paschim Champaran. One death each was reported from Patna and Vaishali districts. So far 327 Covid patients have died in Patna district, which reported 133 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the corresponding tally to 42,307. But 40,007 of them have recovered leaving only 1,973 active cases in the district. Other districts with substantial number of cases were Aurangabad (39), Muzaffarpur (38), Nawada (19) and Bhagalpur (18). There were 5,465 active Covid cases in the state, which has 97.15% recovery rate. A total of 567 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,29,365. As many as 1,29,984 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, the health department bulletin said. The health department figures apart, AIIMS-P on Tuesday registered five deaths, including Dr Arun from Mahesh Nagar (Boring Road) in Patna. One 69-year old man from Kankarbagh in Patna also succumbed to the infection. Among the other victims were a 58-year-old man from Saran, a 67-year-old man from Jehanabad and a 70-year-old man from Sheikhpura, AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said. He said 14 patients from Shastri Nagar, Kadamkuan, Gai Ghat, Rajeev Nagar and Bhagwat Nagar in Patna and others from Darbhanga, Munger, Saran and Gopalganj were admitted and 13 people got discharged on Tuesday. One 80-year-old woman from Nalanda died at NMCH, its nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said. He said one Covid positive person was admitted while another was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. “There are six Covid patients at the hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-doctor-dies-of-covid-in-bihar/articleshow/79516775.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 2, 2020||Patna||New ropeway at Rajgir to be functional in January: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA/BIHARSHARIF: Tourists visiting Rajgir will be able to enjoy joy- rides on a new and safer cabin-type ropeway at the historic Ratnagiri hills as CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday directed its completion by January. The CM was on a day-long visit to Rajgir where he reviewed the progress of ongoing projects, including the eight-seater gondola ropeway and the expansion work at Venu Van — the bamboo grove, where Gautam Buddha is believed to have stayed for a few Varshawasas (rainy retreats). He also took a ride on the new ropeway. Speaking on the new ropeway, Nitish said, “The ropeway was targeted to be ready by October 25 last year on the 50th anniversary of the Vishwa Shanti Stupa. It could not be completed then due to certain modifications and got further delayed due to the Corona pandemic, but I have instructed officials to complete it at the earliest. I actually came to see how much more time is required to complete it.” On the upcoming zoo safari at Rajgir, Nitish said, “Work on the zoo safari is progressing fast pace and it will be ready soon. People will move in vehicles, while the animals will roam in open, like a typical safari.” The CM further asked officials to make the new ropeway ready for the winter tourism season. “Tourists mostly come in the winter. Though fewer tourists are likely to come this time owing to the pandemic but make it ready by this winter season, probably by January, so that at least domestic tourists can use the new facility,” Nitish said. The CM also inspected the old chairlift ropeway and asked officials to ensure its proper maintenance. Once the new cabin-type ropeway is functional the existing chairlift ropeway is proposed to be conserved as a heritage structure. Ropeway apart, the CM also spent some time at Ghora Katora on Tuesday and instructed officials to further beautify it. The CM then visited Venu Van and reviewed with officials the ongoing expansion and beautification work. Speaking on the expansion of Venu Van, the CM said, “It is a historic place, where Lord Buddha had come 2600 years ago. As its expansion work is underway, I came here to see it. The work is going fine and I have given a few more suggestions. The work will be completed as early as possible and it will look very beautiful, which will attract even more tourists.” He added: “Special facilities are being made available for foreign tourists as well as children. Besides, arrangements have been made for Buddhist followers to conduct prayers. I am hopeful that the work will be completed within a few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-ropeway-at-rajgir-to-be-functional-in-january-nitish/articleshow/79516960.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 2, 2020||Patna||Six cops injured during raid in Bihar's Kahalgaon||BHAGALPUR: Six police personnel were injured when criminals hurled bombs on the police team which had gone to conduct a raid at Nadia Tola locality under the Kahalgaon police station area on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Police later arrested two hardcore criminals and seized several arms and ammunition during the raid. The arrested criminals are Divyanshu Jha alias Soni, a resident of Nadia Tola, and Litul Singh, a resident of Shital Nagar, under the Kahlagaon police station area. Police have seized two pistols, one country-made gun, one revolver, several half manufactured arms and arms manufacturing equipment besides some live cartridges from the spot. Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti said, “On a tip-off, a police team was formed to raid the hideout of the criminals. The raiding police team was led by Kahalgaon DSP Reshu Krishna, trainee IPS Bharat Soni and other police officials from Kahalgaon. As soon as police reached the hideout of the criminals at Nadia Tola, they were attacked by criminals with bombs. Despite injuries to several police personnel, they were able to arrest the two criminals in connection with the cases lodged against them.” He added that both the arrested criminals were involved in more than a dozen cases lodged in Kahalgaon and Bhagalpur under various sections of IPC, Arms Act and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of 1985, Explosive Substances Act of 1908 and SC/ST Amendment Act. “We are also probing whether the criminals were involved in illegal arms manufacturing and other crime. We would also request for speedy trial of the criminals besides taking steps for seizing the property procured by them,” the SSP said. The SSP further said that the members of the raiding police team, who despite receiving injuries during the raid nabbed the criminals, would be recommended for rewards for their exemplary courage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-cops-injured-during-raid-in-kahalgaon/articleshow/79516975.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Patna||Patna airport upgrade: ATC, other facilities to be ready by April, 2021||PATNA: Construction of the new auxiliary buildings, residential quarters and the multi-level car parking at the Patna airport will be ready by March-April 2021. However, flyers will have to wait two more years for the new integrated terminal building with state-of-the-art- facilities. The auxiliary buildings comprising a technical block, fire station, cargo complex and ATC tower are being built at a cost of Rs 30 crore. The total estimated cost of the airport modernisation project is Rs 1,216.9 crore. The new ATC tower is 24m tall nearly 8m more than the existing one and will have state-of-the-art communication, surveillance and navigation equipment. The multi-level parking lot can hold up to 750 cars at peak hours. The parking lot is linked to the departure level of the new terminal building through a link bridge for pedestrian movement. K S Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, Airports Authority of India- Patna said around 60% of the work is completed in the auxiliary buildings. “The construction work on the top floor of the parking and furnishing work is left. It will be a ground+ 5 floors structure with a shopping complex proposed on the fourth floor,” Vijayan told this newspaper on Tuesday. “Similarly, a new residential area of the airport is also targeted to be ready by March or April. It will be a six-building structure to accommodate 108 aviation employees and 75% of the work on the residential quarters is complete. We are speculating that most of the allied structures would be ready by April while the new terminal building is to be completed by March 2023. Concrete foundation work is going for the new terminal building,” Vijayan added. The new airport building designed by the Singapore-based firm Meinhardt (Singapore) Pte Ltd has a two-storey terminal building which will have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor. It will handle up to 45 lakh passengers per year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-airport-upgrade-atc-other-facilities-to-be-ready-by-april-2021/articleshow/79516992.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar gets seven ART centres on World AIDS Day||PATNA: State health minister Mangal Pandey inaugurated seven antiretroviral therapy (ART) centres on the occasion of World AIDS Day on Tuesday. The event was organized by Bihar State AIDS Control Society (BSACS) in association with UNICEF (Bihar). The seven new ART centres started in Munger, Jamui, Supaul, Purnea, Nalanda, Kaimur and Siwan districts. The minister laid emphasis on awareness drive in the state for the prevention of AIDS infection. Pandey said in the last few years, new antiretroviral (ARV) medicines have been discovered and their production has also increased. “In 2017, the Centre’s decision on test and treatment has proved fruitful because as soon as a person is diagnosed with HIV at any of the integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTC), he or she receives free medicines and other medical facilities at the ART centres,” Pandey said. The minister also released ‘Bihar Fact Sheet’ on HIV-AIDS. The fact sheet mentioned that the number of ICTCs has increased to 1,093 in 2019-20 from 766 in 2018-19. The first advanced level STD diagnostic service centre was established at state reference centre in SKMCH at Muzaffarpur, while STD, tuberculosis, HIV testing started in 59 prisons of Bihar. Pandey also felicitated the winners of Yuva Sanchar 2020, an online quiz competition. Principal secretary of health Pratyaya Amrit said HIV test was available free of cost in all government health centres and the number of test centres was being increased for the public convenience. Manoj Kumar, project director of BSACS, said 20 ART centres were operational in Bihar. Shivendra Pandey, programme manager, UNICEF (Bihar), said there were 391 Red Ribbon Clubs in various colleges/universities of the state where students organized the social awareness programmes on HIV and its prevention. Dr Syed Hubey Ali, health specialist, UNICEF (Bihar), said 22 out of every 10,000 people in India were infected with HIV while in Bihar it was 18 per 10,000 people. “At 20 ART centres in Bihar, about 61,000 persons are being provided free medicines and other facilities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-gets-seven-art-centres-on-world-aids-day/articleshow/79517035.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Ahead of Kumbh 2021, Ganga water quality dips||DEHRADUN: With just a month left for Kumbh, a report by the Uttarakhand Environment Protection and Pollution Control Board (UEPPCB) on the state of Ganga in Haridwar has revealed that the water is now in category B, not fit for drinking anymore and suitable only for bathing. Barely a month after the lockdown was imposed in late March, water at Har-ki-Pauri crossed into the ‘A’ category, which means for the first time in decades, it was fit for drinking after chlorination, all thanks to minimal activity on its banks. Environmentalists rued that the government has failed to check pollution in the river despite spending crores on it. According to the officials of UEPPCB, which has 16 centres across the state that monitor the river, Ganga water is in category A at five places - Bhagirathi at Gangotri, Rudraprayag, Devprayag, Raiwala and Rishikesh. “The reason the river had entered ‘A’ category was minimum human intervention. All big hotels and industries were shut during the lockdown, which is why the river became so clean. But since May, pollution started increasing,” said SS Pal, chief environment officer, UEPPCB. “In an area where the total coliform is under 50 MPN/100 ml, the water is categorised in ‘A’ category. At Har ki Pauri, the total coliform increased from 50 MPN/100 ml in March to 80 MPN/100 ml in September. The reason for this is the large sewage discharge in Ganga. In areas where the river water is under ‘A’ category, the total coliform is as less as under 2 MPN/100 ml,” said Pal. Total coliforms are a group of related bacteria that are (with a few exceptions) not harmful to humans. A variety of bacteria, parasites and viruses, known as pathogens, can potentially cause health problems if humans ingest them. The pH level of Ganga at Har-ki-Pauri was 8 and the biological Oxygen demand (BoD) 1 mg/L as of October, both of which are under the safe limits (Category ‘A’ water has pH between 6.5 and 8.5 and unpolluted rivers BoD under 1 mg/L). “Sewage is a major water polluter across the country. It is the state’s responsibility to ensure sewage doesn’t fall untreated into Ganga. It is sacred, they call it ‘mother’ after all. If enforced properly, with fines and penalties, people are bound to follow norms. Take the Delhi metro for example, no one spits inside the trains,” said Anil Prakash Joshi, environmentalist and founder of a Dehradun-based organization involved in making sustainable technologies for the agricultural sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ahead-of-kumbh-2021-ganga-water-quality-dips/articleshow/79516821.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 2, 2020||Business||States’ debt to hit 36% of their GDP||MUMBAI: State government debt as a ratio of their gross domestic product (GDP) is set to rise to a decadal high of 36% on the back of a sharp drop in GST collections and sticky expenditure on account of the pandemic. This will force states to moderate their capital expenditure (capex) by around 30%, largely to remain within fiscal borrowing limits. Despite the moderation in capex, states’ gross fiscal deficit is likely to expand by around 65% year-on-year this fiscal and will increase their borrowing needs substantially. These are the findings by research firm Crisil, which conducted a study of the 19 top states that account for 90% of the aggregate gross state domestic product. It said that states’ overall revenues are estimated to decline almost 15% year-on-year this fiscal in line with a shrinking economy. All the revenue sources of the states will take a hit, with almost 65% of the decline attributable to a fall in state GST collections, GST compensation payments, and tax devolutions to the states from the Centre’s own tax pool. These put together form nearly 50% of states’ total revenue receipts. The Reserve Bank of India had earlier warned that states may see a massive cut in capital expenditure in FY21 due to revenue shortfall. Its report on study of state budgets found that they had cut their capex by Rs 1,26,000 crore, or nearly 0.6% of the country’s GDP. This would have serious ramifications for the country’s growth prospects.But despite the cut in capex, states face huge expenditure because of fixed costs. “Amid falling revenue receipts, states’ revenue expenditures would remain largely sticky due to high committed expenditures (related to salaries, pension and interest costs) and essential developmental expenditures (such as grants in aid, medical and labour welfare related expenses). These cumulatively contribute to 75-80% of the total revenue expenditure and will be difficult to cut down,” said Crisil Ratings senior director Manish Gupta. Overall debt of states, including guarantees and loans provided by the Centre to partly compensate for their GST shortfall, will increase sharply by around Rs 10 lakh crore this year to about Rs 68 lakh crore by the end of this fiscal, said Crisil Ratings director Ankit Hakhu. This will expand states’ indebtedness to at least 36% — an expansion of 600 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) year-on-year. The math assumes a likely shrinkage of 2-4% in states’ nominal GDP this fiscal. This will remain sensitive to containment of pandemic and states’ policies towards unlocking the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/states-debt-to-hit-36-of-their-gdp/articleshow/79518584.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 2, 2020||Business||Greaves Cotton to close down Ranipet plant||CHENNAI: As part of a restructuring process Greaves Cotton has closed down its factory in Ranipet and has shifted the entire engine production to its Aurangabad plant. The decision said Nagesh Basavanhalli, group CEO & MD, has led to “both operations and people side redundancies”. The company, “is still figuring out strategic plans and evaluating all opportunities and there has been no decision yet on whether to sell the closed plant or offer it for contract manufacturing”. While the plant has been shut, the company’s e-vehicle subsidiary Ampere is witnessing a demand comeback. “On the personal mobility front, demand is coming back up and Ampere now has 20% plus market share,” said Basavanhalli. “We added 40 new dealerships post lockdown 1 and now have 220 dealerships in all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/greaves-cotton-to-close-down-ranikhet-plant/articleshow/79518278.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 2, 2020||Business||Edelweiss fund buys IL&FS road project||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS) on Tuesday said Justice D K Jain has approved the sale of the group’s road asset Jorabat Shillong Expressway (JSEL) to Edelweiss-sponsored Sekura Roads. Sekura had bid Rs 916 crore for 100% stake in the project, which has a debt of Rs 1,600 crore. Sekura Roads is backed by Edelweiss Infrastructure Yield Plus, an infrastructure category-1 alternative investment fund. JSEL is a wholly owned subsidiary of IL&FS Transport Network (ITNL). The group, as part of the debt-resolution process, had classified the company in ‘amber’ category, which meant that it would not be able to meet complete debt obligations but can meet only operational payment obligations to senior secured financial creditors. JSEL is a four-lane highway from Jorabat to Shillong on the NH-40, which connects Shillong, Mizoram and Tripura with Guwahati. “Sekura Roads had emerged as the highest bidder for JSEL and the same was ratified by the committee of creditors (CoCs) of ITNL and JSEL,” it said. The proceeds would be distributed in accordance with the resolution framework approved by the NCLT, the group added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edelweiss-fund-buys-ilfs-road-project/articleshow/79518388.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 2, 2020||Business||PE-VC deals up 30% in Nov, value falls 34%||Chennai: Automotive, healthcare and logistics sector boosted deal activity and provided diversity in an otherwise subdued November for privateeEquity (PE) and venture capital (VC) industry. The month saw $2.7 billion of PE-VC investments across 70 deals, data from Venture Intelligence shows. This was a 34% fall in terms of value from October, but deal count increased 30% from the previous month. Investment activity was down 15% year-on-year compared to $3.2 billion worth deals recorded in the pre-Covid period of November 2019. Cars24, an online marketplace for used cars, turned ‘unicorn’ in November with a $200 million Series E raise from DST Global and others. Nutraceuticals player OmniActive Health Technologies raised $150 million from TA Associates and Goldman Sachs invested $150 million in Biocon Biologics. Debt-laden Essel Group’s sale of tollways to the National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) for $270 million was another large deal. Arun Natarajan , founder and MD, Venture Intelligence said that the deals this month were spread across a wide variety of sectors, suggesting a gradual return to normalcy for PE-VC sector from here on.“This was perhaps the first month when deal activity went beyond the tailwinds of the pandemic like edtech or Reliance,” he said. Fundraising by Reliance Industries, which has hitherto driven PE-VC capital deployment during the pandemic, made up just 47% of the total fundraising in November compared to 65% in October. Reliance Retail raised around $1.3 billion from the Public Investment Fund in the month. E-commerce logistics startup XpressBees figured among the top VC investments of the month raising $110 million from InvestCorp and other investors. SaaS co MindTickle raised $100 million from SoftBank Corp and others in another large deal. For the January to November period, 2020 has recorded $34.5 billion from 695 deals, compared to $34.4 billion from 927 deals last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pe-vc-deals-up-30-in-nov-value-falls-34/articleshow/79518311.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Patna||Patna DC and IG visit police stations at night to inspect functioning||PATNA: Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and IG Patna- range Sanjay Singh carried out a joint vigilance inspection late on Monday night in the state capital to assess night policing on city roads by the local police stations. The duo paid a surprise visit at police stations and outposts to see if the requisite strength of the force was working late night hours. Bihar chief secretary Deepak Kumar had directed the inspections after holding a meeting with senior officials on law and order situation in the state on Monday. CM Nitish Kumar had earlier conducted a review meeting on law and order with senior officials and had stressed the need for strengthening night patrolling across the state. Agarwal and Singh visited Kotwali and Shastri Nagar police stations, inspected the officers on night duty, and those on patrol duty. They checked the records, station diaries and instructed police personnel to take measures to facilitate the public and to intensify the night patrolling in their areas to prevent crime. They also checked the status of pending cases and the status of vehicles seized (carrying liquor). They also visited Bailey road, Patliputra, Station road and airport road among other areas. The DC directed the SHOs of Kotwali and Shastri Nagar police stations to strengthen night patrolling and ensure that the grievances of the people are addressed quickly and genuinely. “The police should respond immediately upon receiving a complaint or information related to the crime. If a citizen dials 100 at night and asks for help a police patrol party should reach out and help. If any citizen comes to the police station to register an FIR treat them with decency,” Agarwal said. He directed that a police officer or constable should be present at the police station to register complaint even during midnight hours. “The patrolling party should be actively working at night on road, different pickets and intersections to maintain law and order. The patrolling party should also check auto-rickshaws, buses and other public and private vehicles especially near the railway station, airport and bus stand,” the divisional commissioner said. Agarwal also asked the police officers to take strict action against liquor smugglers and sellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-dc-and-ig-visit-police-stations-at-night-to-inspect-functioning/articleshow/79517013.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 2, 2020||Business||LVB bond, stock write-offs negative for investors, good for depositors: Moody’s||Chennai: The government decision to write off bonds and stocks of Lakshmi Vilas Bank as part of its merger with DBS Bank are negative for investors holding these instruments since this leads to loss of their investment. However, it is positive for the bank’s depositors and senior creditors since the incidence of loss will be lesser on these two groups of stakeholders, said ratings agency Moody’s Investors Service.The rating agency said the LVB case was the first such incident that stocks of an Indian bank have been written off. Earlier in the case of Yes Bank, only the Additional Tier 1 (AT1) bonds were written off during the lender’s reorganization in May this year. This write-off of stocks of a lender was consistent with the approach regulators use globally to minimize the cost of a bank bailout on taxpayers. It is to be noted that before these two cases, the banking regulator has never imposed losses on bond holders, and has now set precedence for such future actions, according to Moody’s report.Under the government-backed RBI plan for LVB, announced on November 26, the lender’s Basel III Tier 2 bonds, aggregating Rs 318 crore, were completely written off after the central bank deemed the private lender to be non-viable or approaching non-viability. “As per rules of Indian Basel III compliant AT1 and Tier 2 securities, securities or bonds will be written down before authorities can step in to support a bank,” the release from Moody’s said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-bond-stock-write-offs-negative-for-investors-good-for-depositors-moodys/articleshow/79518361.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 2, 2020||Business||‘Virtual learning, telemedicine can empower masses’||Intel India head Nivruti Rai is passionate about driving innovation, technology advancement and research. She says the pandemic has accentuated the urgency to build self-reliance. According to her, the rise in teleconsultation and virtual learning has democratised access to quality healthcare, and education... How far has your business returned to normal? The unprecedented nature of the Covid-19 outbreak has necessitated organisations to heighten their focus on operational resilience, business continuity and efficiency while enhancing digital capabilities. Our top priority continues to be protecting the health and wellbeing of our employees and the communities where we work, while keeping the business running for our customers. Intel has always provided employees flexibility to work remotely. As a result, Intel India has been able to deliver consistently and drive critical innovations. What challenges and opportunities has the new normal presented? It has advanced virtual working and therefore increased adoption of technology. Hence, demand for technology has accelerated. Our responsibility is to be more inclusive and empathetic as we continue to lead and grow. Will you look at more digitisation, automation? Intel has always been on the forefront of digitisation that not only delivers efficiency, but also enables robust collaboration between our global teams that work across multiple time zones. Our focus on technology adoption and readiness has always offered work flexibility to employees and partners. How is technology shaping the new normal? In education, technology is enabling a virtual learning environment with the potential to empower the masses with access to quality content and instructors. Similarly, in healthcare, we are seeing a significant rise in telemedicine and teleconsultation, democratising access to quality healthcare, particularly for people from remote parts of the country. What should government do to revive demand? The pandemic has accentuated the urgency to build self-reliance in areas like technology development, research, manufacturing, both digital and physical infrastructure. I believe India has opportunities to leapfrog to the next level of technology adoption by making bold moves, especially to build inclusive infrastructure for the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/virtual-learning-telemedicine-can-empower-masses/articleshow/79518843.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Is Kavitha a voter in city?||Hyderabad: Congress has asked TRS MLC K Kavitha to come clear on casting her vote in the city for GHMC polls. “Kavitha had her name on electoral rolls of Pothangal village of Navipet mandal in Nizamabad district. Has she removed her name from the voter’s list in Pothangal. The State Election Commission should look into this issue seriously,” TPCC official spokesperson Indira Shobhan demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-is-kavitha-a-voter-in-city/articleshow/79519444.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Business||Sensex jumps 506 points to new closing high of 44,655||MUMBAI: Despite a slide in US stocks on Monday night, the sensex on Tuesday rallied from the start and ended with a 506-point gain at 44,655 points — its highest ever closing level. Strong buying by foreign funds led to smart gains in software exporters, select financials and Reliance Industries, which aided the Tuesday’s rally. This also took investors’ wealth to a new all-time high with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 175.7 lakh crore. Market players said that encouraging data about Chinese manufacturing helped major Asian and European markets to trade higher, which also had a rub-off effect on Dalal Street. As a result, the US markets too touched new highs at the open. On Dalal Street, Infosys, ICICI Bank, HDFC, RIL and TCS contributed the most to the sensex’s rally, while selling in Kotak Bank and HDFC Bank limited the gains. Tuesday’s gains came on the back of a Rs 3,242-crore net buying by foreign funds, while domestic institutions were net sellers at Rs 1,043 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-jumps-506-points-to-new-closing-high-of-44655/articleshow/79518638.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Graduates poll witnesses record voting at 55%||Nagpur: The Nagpur division graduate constituency witnessed voting at around 55% on Tuesday. The figure for 4pm was 53.64%. As voting took place even after 5pm in some rural pockets, the final figure may go up, according to government sources. In 2014 when Anil Sole of BJP trounced Baban Taywade of Congress in a straight fight, the voting percentage was only 37%. However, compared to this time’s 2.06 lakh voters, there were 2.88 lakh voters six years ago. Nevertheless due to huge increase in voting percentage, some 8,000 to 10,000 more votes have been polled this time. Supporters of both Sandip Joshi of BJP and Abhijit Wanjari of Congress claimed that it would help them record a comfortable victory. Supporters of other major candidates like Atul Khobragade and Rahul Wankhede of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) claimed that they were now in the race due to the increased voting. The Congress camp is claiming that the voting percentage increased this time because OBC and Dalit voters came out in large numbers to vote for Wanjari. A Congress leader told TOI, “Dalits marked 1 against Wanjari and 2 against Khobragade or Wankhede. OBC voters mostly voted for Congress in all six districts. According to our calculations, Wanjari will romp home with a margin of 15,000 votes.” BJP leaders are claiming that the high voting percentage was due to their traditional supporters coming out in large numbers. “Some booths in Nagpur West and Nagpur South-West assembly constituencies experienced over 70% voting. Between 80% and 90% of these votes went to BJP. Our candidate will romp home by a margin of 25,000 votes,” said a BJP leader. Supporters of Khobragade said that it was a triangular fight and while the candidate might not win, he would certainly finish second. “Dalit voters have mostly voted for Khobragade and not Congress. Wanjari is in for a surprise if he thinks he is going to get all Dalit votes,” said a supporter. The election is a prestige issue for BJP as it has held the seat since last 58 years. It was represented by late Gangadharrao Fadnavis, father of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, and union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in the past. Fadnavis has been camping here since last two to three days to help Joshi. Gadkari has also worked hard in the election addressing meetings for the party candidate. The counting will take place on Thursday, December 3, at Divisional Sports Complex, Mankapur. The process will begin at 8am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/graduates-poll-witnesses-record-voting-at-55/articleshow/79517908.cms||Ashish Roy
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Farmers told to cut weight of palms||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu agricultural department has advised farmers to reduce the top weight of coconut palms by cutting off coconuts, tender coconuts and old leaves ahead of storms to avoid uprooting of the trees. The agriculture department issued an advisory in view of the IMD’ forecast of very heavy rain in the southern districts from Wednesday to Friday. Coconut palms, especially with heavy tops filled with coconuts and unpruned leaves, are among the worst-hit during such weather conditions. Watering the coconut trees should also be stopped four days ahead for allowing the fibrous roots to strongly hold on to the soil and prevent the trees from getting uprooted. Similarly, tapioca also could be saved from uprooting by pruning extra leaves. Spread of infection in the pruned portions of the stem can be avoided by spraying copper oxychloride by mixing 300g of the chemical with one litre water. Tapioca that is 90% grown should be harvested, and roots of the young plants should be strengthened by heaping soil to their lower stem. Proper draining arrangements should be made to prevent stagnation of water in paddy and millet fields. Green house and shadow hut cultivation sheds can be protected by tightly fixing them to the ground with metal rods. Doors and windows should be closed to prevent wind from entering. The government has also asked primary cooperative societies and regulated markets to have adequate stock of protective materials to safely stock the produce brought by farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-told-to-cut-weight-of-palms/articleshow/79519442.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||World AIDS Day: Health dept to open 5 more ART centres to help HIV patients||Dehradun: Uttarakhand on Tuesday got five new antiretroviral therapy (ART) centres on the occasion of World AIDS Day. Currently, the state has 4,314 people infected with HIV/AIDS. Among these, 306 people were detected with the virus in 2020. Dr Saroj Naithani, additional project director of State AIDS Control Committee, told TOI that the new ART centres were opened at Indresh Hospital, Jolly Grant Hospital, AIIMS Rishikesh, Roorkee Sub-district Hospital, and Srinagar Medical College. “Four ART centres were inaugurated on Tuesday but the one in Jolly Grant Hospital will be inaugurated on Thursday (December 3),” she said, while adding that the ART centre is a place for the treatment that suppresses or stops a retrovirus. Notably, Uttarakhand has reported 5,028 HIV/AIDS cases since its formation in 2000. Among these, 4,314 are receiving treatment. The remaining are taking rest, being considered to be migrated from here, or have died. The maximum of 2,525 patients are taking treatment at ART centre at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH), followed by 1,565 patients in Haldwani Medical College, and 224 in Pithoragarh ART centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/world-aids-day-health-dept-to-open-5-more-art-centres-to-help-hiv-patients/articleshow/79516836.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||Woman strangled by ‘robbers’, her parents accuse son-in-law of murder||Bareilly: A woman was allegedly strangled by five robber who barged into her house in Majhola area of Moradabad late Monday night, while her parents accused their son-in-law of killing their daughter and concocting a fake robbery story to mislead the investigation. Police have, however, detained the husband and forensic experts collected evidence from the scene. A panel of doctors will conduct the post-mortem examination to ascertain the reason for her death. Manju (24) was married to Jitendra Kumar, a resident of Milak village, nearly two years ago. Owing to marital discord, Manju had been living with her parents for a month, said police, adding that she had returned to her in-laws’ house along with her husband 12 days ago. On Tuesday morning, Jitendra informed police that five robbers barged into his house and tied him with a rope. The robbers asked Manju to handover all jewellery and cash to them, but as she refused, they strangled her, Jitendra told police. The robbers fled with all valuables, while he was rescued by his neighbours, claimed Jitendra. In a complaint lodged at Majhola police station, Jitendra’s in-laws rejected his robbery story and accused him of killing their daughter Manju. Moradabad SSP Prabhakar Chaudhary said, “The autopsy report and evidence collected from the house will reveal the truth. We are investigating the case and action will be taken based on the autopsy report. We are also questioning the husband.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-strangled-by-robbers-her-parents-accuse-son-in-law-of-murder/articleshow/79516840.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 2, 2020||Kozhikode||SDPI march for justice to cadre on Friday||Kozhikode: Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) will take out a march to the office of the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in Thalassery on December 4 demanding arrest of the conspirators behind the murder of its cadre Syed Muhammad Salahudeen. SDPI leadership claimed that RSS workers from different regions have taken part in the murder and a detailed probe in necessary to find out as to who coordinated the various groups. The party alleged that police are trying to end the investigation after the arrest of those who directly participated in the action. Police version that RSS mukhya shikshak Amal Raj was the main conspirator cannot be believed. SDPI state general secretary K K Abdul Jabbar will inaugurate the march at Thalassery at 10am. Salahudeen was murdered at Chittariparamba while going home on September 8. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/sdpi-march-for-justice-to-cadre-on-friday/articleshow/79517914.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Low voting due to BJP, MIM: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress on Tuesday blamed the BJP, TRS and MIM as responsible for the polling percentage coming down in GHMC elections. “The voters did not show the enthusiasm to come out and vote due to communalisation of the election campaign mainly by BJP and MIM. Even the state government and State Election Commission did not make serious efforts to improve the poll percentage,” alleged Telangana Congress working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar. He said the state election authorities and police should book cases at least now against the leaders who made statements on communal lines threatening to disturb the law and order situation. “Stringent action against such forces will do wonders in encouraging the voters to come to polling booths in the long run,” Prabhakar said. Former MP Madhu Yashki Goud said it was unfortunate that the city, which has educated voters in majority, did not come out to exercise their electoral franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/low-voting-due-to-bjp-mim-cong/articleshow/79519448.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||HC stays Centre’s notification on ESZ at sanctuary||Madurai: The Madras high court on Tuesday granted interim stay on the central government’s gazette notification declaring eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Kanyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary, on the ground that no public hearing was conducted. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi also sought details of mining licences issued by the authorities and directed not to carry out any mining activities in the area. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Satheesh, a resident of Kanyakumari district. The petitioner stated that the central government had issued the gazette notification on February 20, demarcating villages around the sanctuary and asked the people to submit written objections within two months. He stated that no public hearing was conducted in this regard. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, the people were not able to send their objections, however, the central government had finalized the notification on September 22, notifying the area varying to an extent from 0-3km around the boundary of the Sanctuary as ESZ. He stated that areas where there are mining activities were excluded and those with no western ghats and animals, were included as ESZ. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-stays-centres-notification-on-esz-at-sanctuary/articleshow/79519446.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt ensured lowvoting, says BJP||Hyderabad: BJP state unit said the TRS government had taken every step to make sure that the voting percentage remained low as a higher voter turnout would spell disaster for the ruling party in the GHMC polls. “Despite complaints about TRS misconduct, the SEC chief has not done anything. He should be suspended,” BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said. Senior BJP leader G Vivek Venkatswamy, party OBC morcha national president Dr K Laxman and others sat on a fast at the party office after casting their votes. They said they sat on fast in protest against what they called the TRS government misusing official machinery to win the polls at all costs. Sanjay alleged that the TRS tried to scare away people from polling booths by continuously talking about violence. “ He alleged that the SEC had deployed employees whose disposition was favourable to the TRS at the polling booths. “KCR understood that they are losing ground. So, he did everything possible to see that more voters do not turn out,” he said. Sanjay also alleged that ‘car’ symbol of the TRS was marked well, while the lotus symbol of BJP was not highlighted properly on the ballot paper. Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy said TRS purposefully held polls on this day coinciding with consecutive holidays. “State government instead of having polling day on a working day had it conducted in between. People in the city should take note of this,” he said. BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleged that state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi had acted completely under the direction of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-ensured-lowvoting-says-bjp/articleshow/79519456.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Untreated sewage contaminating Ganga in Haridwar and Rishikesh, say locals||Haridwar: Despite several complaints and interventions, Ganga, the river revered by millions of people, is still being polluted by untreated sewage from drains falling directly into it in Haridwar and Rishikesh towns, say locals. They add that the sewage and untreated water from many hotels, ashrams, and shops located along the Ganga is being discharged directly into the river on a daily basis. “The errant commercial establishments have been given several directions to tap their drains and treat the sewage before discharging it by the local administration but they refuse to mend their ways. The administration claims that all the drains have been tapped but the ground situation is completely different. Many drains are still falling directly into the Ganga in the city area,” says Vibhash Mishra, a resident of Haridwar town. Echoing a similar sentiment, RM Dobhal, another local, said, “The state pollution control board is not taking action against errant hotels and ashrams which are located close to the bank of Ganga for draining waste water directly into the river. Most of the commercial buildings do not have their sewage treatment plants and how they treat their waste is a matter of investigation. Similarly, sewage line leakage is another cause of pollution in Haridwar.” Meanwhile, DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “New sewage treatment plants (STPs) have been constructed and the capacity of old ones have been increased. These STPs are proving useful in tapping the drain. As far as hotels and ashrams is concerned, we are taking action. The local authority is also imposing a penalty over littering and open defecation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/untreated-sewage-contaminating-ganga-in-haridwar-and-rishikesh-say-locals/articleshow/79516853.cms||MS Nawaz
December 2, 2020||Varanasi||New GRP thana inaugurated||Varanasi: The newly constructed thana of the Government Railway Police (GRP) in the state-of-art centrally air conditioned section of the newly expanded main building of Varanasi junction was inaugurated on Monday. Now with the newly created facility, the railway offenders involved in theft, snatching, begging, illegal vending, travelling in trains without ticket and blocking railway tracks will ‘chill’ in the lockup. According to the station director Anand Mohan, upgradation and remodelling of Varanasi junction is being done with a major project of Rs 568.7 crore. Besides, the modern GRP thana, the expanded building also has a world class waiting lobby, escalators, stairs for a new railway foot over bridge, cafeteria and other passenger amenities. GRP inspector Ashok Kumar Dubey said that the accommodation has separate chambers for station in-charges, sub-inspectors, office room and armoury. Earlier, the GRP had its thana at the platform 4/5. The building at platform 4/5 is being abandoned for demolition as these platforms are going to be trimmed for laying one extra railway track. According to him, on an average six miscreants involved mainly in theft and snatching of mobile, chain or purse are kept in lockups of GRP per day before producing them before the court. The lockup in the new building has sufficient space to accommodate 10 persons. The violators of Rail Act and Railway Property Unlawful Possession Act, who can be beggars, illegal vendors, people travelling in trains without ticket, those damaging railway property or stealing it and also protesters are kept in the lockup.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/new-grp-thana-inaugurated/articleshow/79519455.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Cops still uncertain about cause of Dr Sheetal Amte’s death||Chandrapur: Police are still uncertain about the cause of death of social worker Dr Sheetal Amte, as the primary post mortem report has failed to shed any light upon it. SDPO, Warora, Nilesh Pande said they have registered a case of accidental death in the matter and are awaiting final post mortem report, which is expected by Wednesday evening. Dr Sheetal Amte had died under mysterious circumstances and is suspected to have committed suicide, but police are tight-lipped about the cause of death even after receipt of primary post mortem report. SDPO Pande claimed they have seized two mobile phones, a tab and a laptop of Dr Sheetal Amte. They have to send them to Nagpur to cyber experts as they don’t have the passwords to open them. Cops have also seized a lot of medicines and a syringe from the scene. Pande claimed they have not recovered any kind of suicide note from her residence in the search carried out by expert forensic teams from Nagpur and Chandrapur. However, they have not ruled out the possibility of recovering some evidence from her laptop, phones and tab. Meanwhile, sources claimed that official police statement of Gautam Karajgi was recorded, and statements of members of Amte family are likely to be recorded on Wednesday. Sources close to Amte family claimed that Dr Sheetal’s husband Gautam Karajgi found her immobile in her room when he returned from office. He had to break open the door and gave CPR as he found no heart beat, but in vain. Her father-in-law and mother-in-law had gone for Covid test at that time. A resident doctor of Anandwan was summoned to the spot but he found the body unresponsive. When she was rushed to the sub-district hospital, doctors there confirmed her death. Her remains were laid to rest late on Monday night at Shraddha Van, the resting place of Baba Amte, in the presence of her family members and residents of Anandwan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-still-uncertain-about-cause-of-dr-sheetal-amtes-death/articleshow/79517930.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||NSUI stages protests against reducing students’ scholarship||Dehradun: The National Students Union of India (NSUI) staged a protest in front of the residence of Dhan Singh Rawat, state higher education minister, in Dehradun on Tuesday. The student organization of the Congress asked the minister to take back the decision of reducing the amount of students’ scholarship and holding the grant of 18 non-government colleges. The protestors were unable to meet the minister as they were stopped by the police near the minister's residence. The protest concluded after a memorandum was issued to the city magistrate. “We will continue with our protest until the decisions aren’t taken back by the state higher education department,” said Mohan Bhandari, state president of NSUI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsui-stages-protests-against-reducing-students-scholarship/articleshow/79516872.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||83% voters seal fate of 27 in Amt teachers’ seat polls||Amravati: Fate of 27 candidates was sealed in ballot boxes on Monday as nearly 83% voters exercised their franchise in the Amravati division teachers’ constituency polls on Monday. Of the total 35,622 registered voters, 29,534 came out to cast their vote. In the first two hours, the turnout was low as only 10.11% votes were cast. In the next two hours, the percentage went up to 25.11, a rise of 15%. By 2pm, 46.71% teachers had cast their votes. Voting picked up in the next two hours with 21.94% more voters exercising their franchise to take the total percentage to 68.65. Heavy rush was seen at most of the booths in the city in the last hour, taking the final voting percentage to 82.91. Enthusiasm among the teachers was remarkable as they got “something to do” after a long, tiring and frustrating layoff due to Covid scenario. Prestige of both BJP and Shiv Sena is at stake. BJP has fielded Dr Nitin Dhande, while sitting MLC Shrikant Deshpande is the Sena candidate. Various teacher organizations too have fielded candidates, which will surely ensure division of votes. Counting will begin from 8am onwards at Vilasnagar godown in the city on December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/83-voters-seal-fate-of-27-in-amt-teachers-seat-polls/articleshow/79518019.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Poor arrangements leave elderly and differently abled helpless||Hyderabad: Senior citizens and differently abled voters were left in the lurch due to poor arrangements made by election authorities at polling booths on Tuesday. Lack of volunteers and no wheelchairs greeted voters in Somajiguda’s Zikra School, Chandrayangutta, Madhapur’s Meridian school polling station, Moosapet, Kalyan Nagar, Borabanda and Khairtabad. While many were seen struggling to climb stairs and cement ramps, some of them had made their own arrangements to reach polling stations. An 87-year-old, retired central government employee, MC Maranna, was finding it difficult to climb a few steps to enter the polling booth, due to a problem in one of his legs.  While struggling to walk with his entire weight on one leg, he said he was surprised to see that the school where he was supposed to cast his vote had no facilities for senior citizens. “I am used to walking small distances but cannot climb stairs or ramps without assistance. I have been voting in every election since I was 25. From past two years however, the election commission is not making any arrangements at the polling booth. I was clueless as to how to climb the stairs to enter the polling booth until a stranger helped me,” said Maranna. M Lakshmamma, an 88-year-old woman, also faced similar problems. At the polling booth located in a government school, there was no wheelchair or railing to help her get inside the polling booth.  “I took help of a few people standing outside the polling booth to get inside it due to the absence of a ramp. Had the authorities made some arrangements, it would not have been so difficult,” she said. On the other hand, the postal ballot system which was re-introduced after almost eight years seems to have made the life of senior citizens easier this election season. Geeta Pattun, presiding officer at Zikra school polling station in Somajiguda, said, “A lot of senior citizens with sight and hearing problems used to find it very difficult to cast their vote on the EVM. The ballot system is not so complicated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poor-arrangements-leave-elderly-and-differently-abled-helpless/articleshow/79519461.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Depts must have wings to bring court directions before policy makers: HC||Madurai: Observing that either the Parliament or the state legislature is not seriously taking up the suggestions or directions of the Constitutional courts with regard to enacting a law or making an amendment, the Madras high court has said that separate wings should be established in each department to bring such suggestions of courts to the notice of policy makers.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that it is a settled position of law that there cannot be any mandamus to Parliament or legislature to enact a law or to make amendment of a statute. Based on the principle enunciated in the Constitution that there should be a separation of powers between the executive, legislature and judiciaryThe judges observed that the orders giving suggestions to the respective governments are either not properly considered or not brought to the notice of the policy makers. It seems that there is no proper wing in every government department to note the suggestions/directions given by courts and bring them to the notice of the policy makers.The judges noted that though 21 years has elapsed, the Supreme Court’s recommendation to make an amendment to the Advocates Act, 1961 on apprenticeship was not acted upon. Similarly, it took nearly 15 years for the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act to be passed in 2013.Though recommendations have been made by Law Commission to the central government for a comprehensive legislation in the field of ‘Torts and State Liability’ as early as in 1965-1967, except introduction of some Bill in 1965-1967, nothing came out as an Act. The judges further observed that since the chairman and members have not been appointed so far for the 22nd Law Commission of India, it would affect the progress of the law making process in the country.Hence, the judges suo-motu impleaded secretary of ministry of parliamentary affairs, Tamil Nadu chief secretary and secretary of the state law department and sought response for a series of queries.In how many judgments the Constitutional courts have recommended enactment of new laws or amendments of existing Acts so far, and details as to how many orders have been acted upon or still under progress. When will Parliament bring comprehensive legislation in the field of ‘Torts and State Liability’ for violation of fundamental rights of citizens at the hands of the state and its officials. When will the central government appoint the chairman and members of the Law Commission. The court was hearing the PIL filed by K Pushpavanam, a law student from Madurai, who sought a direction to bring in comprehensive legislation on torts and state liability. The case was adjourned to December 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/depts-must-have-wings-to-bring-court-directions-before-policy-makers-hc/articleshow/79519449.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 2, 2020||Madurai||MKU to reopen today with practical classes for final yr PG students||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) is set to reopen for final year postgraduate (PG) students and research scholars on Wednesday, the university authorities confirmed. Covid-19 safety precautions and SOPs are to be in place and followed.“We are starting only practical classes for final year PG students from Wednesday. Research scholars will also be allowed. We are hopefully expecting a good response from the students. I’m sure they too are looking forward to returning,” said MKU vice-chancellor Dr M Krishnan. The VC said that however acceptance letters have been sought from parents.The MKU campus had been functioning as a Covid-19 care centre during the course of the pandemic. “But, now all Covid-19 patients have been shifted and disinfection measures have also been carried out so there is no cause for concern. The hostels will also function depending on the number of students with only one person per room,” said Dr Krishnan. The VC also added that students should strictly follow Covid-19 SOPs, including wearing of masks, avoiding crowding in common areas like canteen, avoiding exchange of books/articles etc.,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-to-reopen-today-with-practical-classes-for-final-yr-pg-students/articleshow/79519462.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||UP gets ‘Bagh Mitras’ to deal with tigers straying near villages||Bareilly: In order to provide support to Uttar Pradesh forest department to tackle frequent straying of big cats in residential areas, World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) is preparing a team of ‘Bagh Mitra’ who will be the first line of support for the villages in case of big cat conflicts. A total of 50 Bagh Mitra have been selected in Kheri while 75 are being trained in Pilibhit district. They will be trained in sensitizing local residents, understanding tiger/leopard behaviour, pug marks identification, providing support in rescue operations.According to all-India tiger estimation, the numbers of tigers have increased significantly to 65 in Pilibhit Tiger Reserve while Kheri has 107 tigers with 82 in forest areas and 25 straying in sugarcane fields in the Mohammadi range. Experts say that the male tigers that couldn’t mark their territory or the tigresses expecting to give birth to cubs often stray outside the forests for a safer place. Detailing on the need of ‘Bagh Mitra’, state coordinator, WWF-India, Mudit Gupta told TOI, “We are seeing an encouraging increase in tiger numbers over the past few years. With limited restricted areas, species like tigers are expected to move out to mark their territory outside the forest. Like many other tiger reserves in India, we need to learn how to live with the situation. Unlike forest tigers, the tigers living in sugarcane fields are getting used to the presence of human beings and there are rare instances of them attacking the human population in the region. Now, we are training selected people living in the villages where sugarcane tigers are found as Bagh Mitras.”Anil Kumar, a Bagh Mitra from Mohammadi, told TOI, “We were trained in general tips and tools used in case of a big cat straying close to a village. We have nearly 15 villages in the region. We can now identify carnivores through their pugmarks and the steps to be taken to push the animal into the forest area. During training, we came to know that sugarcane tigers are actually beneficial for the farmers as they kill wild boars and nilgai that damage the crops. We just need to take certain precautions while working in the fields. Now, we speak with villagers from time to time and spread awareness. No recent incident of man-animal conflict has been reported despite many tigers straying into the cane fields here.”Divisional forest officer (social forestry) Samir Kumar said, “There were 12 tigers straying in sugarcane fields in the Gola and Maheshpur ranges in the last camera trap census. Fortunately, the last incident where a man was killed near a sugarcane field was reported from the Maheshpur range on December 30, 2019. Since then, there has just been one minor attack on a youth. The coordination with villagers, after the introduction of Bagh Mitras, has increased and since they are locals, people trust them more.”“The advance training of selected Bagh Mitras will happen soon where they would be given expertise on how to assist the forest department in tranquilizing/rescue operations, usage of GPS for tiger monitoring and installation of camera traps,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-gets-bagh-mitras-to-deal-with-tigers-straying-near-villages/articleshow/79516897.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Few Covid +ve voters ink fingers||Hyderabad: There were hardly any electors who claimed to be Covid-19 voters at polling stations in the city. State election commission had stated that from 5pm to 6pm, Covid-19 patients can vote at polling stations. The district election authorities kept 10 PPE kits in standby in each polling station, but in most of the wards there were hardly any people who claimed that they were Covid-19 patients and had come to cast their vote. Ahead of the elections, the state election commission had stated that Covid-19 voters can cast their vote using postal ballot. After postal ballot is issued, elector was not allowed to exercise vote in polling station. SEC had also stated that infected electors must enclose self-attested ID card and recent medical certificate while applying for postal ballot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/few-covid-ve-voters-ink-fingers/articleshow/79519464.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Varanasi||Kashi graduate constituency election records low turnout||VARANASI: The MLC (graduate) election for Varanasi constituency registered mere 39.33% voter turnout on Monday while 68.83% voting took place for MLC (teachers) constituency. Counting of votes will be held on Thursday and decide the fate of 22 candidates in the graduate constituency and 12 candidates in the teachers' constituency. UP ministers Neelkanth Tiwari and Ravindra Jaiswal reached the polling booths in Varanasi to exercise their franchise. Additional returning officer Ajay Singh said, “Voting for MLC teachers and graduate constituencies took place peacefully from 8am to 5pm amid tight security in all eight districts. By the end of polling, 23,067 voters of total 33,511 had exercised their franchise for teachers’ constituency. For the graduate constituency, only 82,498 out of 2,09,754 voters turned up to cast their votes.” In Varanasi, 4,945 of 7,511 voters exercised their franchise and polling was 65.84% for teachers’ constituency. Jaunpur recorded 71.99% polling, followed by 66.37% in Ghazipur while Ballia witnessed 64.14% turnout. Highest polling percentage was 77.35% in Mirzapur, followed by 75.24% in Chandauli, 72.25% in Sonbhadra and 69.49% in Bhadohi. In contrast, the graduate constituency election saw low turnout and polling remained below 50%in all eight districts. ARO Ajay Singh informed that Varanasi and Jaunpur had maximum 48,437 and 48,359 voters. Police percentage was 32.44% in Varanasi and 37.11% in Jaunpur, he said. Highest polling in the graduate constituency was recorded in Mirzapur where 47.25% votes were cast. Chandauli registered 46.31% polling, Sonbhadra 44.83% and Ballia 44%. Ghazipur witnessed 39.29% with 31,661 voters exercising their franchise while at 39.08% Bhadohi saw 9,693 voters casting their votes. The turnout of voters for MLC graduate constituency remained poor since the beginning and only 12% votes had been cast in all eight districts by 12 noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-graduate-constituencyelection-records-low-turnout/articleshow/79519465.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Adult literacy scheme: Over 10k in Madurai identified||Madurai: As a new adult literacy scheme-- Karpom Ezhthuvom Iyakkam-- was introduced under the directorate of non-formal and adult education, total 10,843 illiterate people have been identified in Madurai for learning basic mathematics and writing skills. The programme is being conducted at 548 learning centres across the district.The scheme was launched on Monday by Madurai district chief education officer (CEO) R Swaminathan. The CEO interacted with the learners at the centre in Shenoy Nagar, urging them to attend classes regularly and benefit from the free programme. The additional district programme co-ordinator (ADPC), Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan, N Thirugnanam, said that 543 volunteer teachers will be involved in the programme. “Around 90% of the volunteer teachers are women. The aim is to equip these adults to become socially-capable citizens so that they can perform simple tasks like reading name boards in buses or going to the bank without having to depend on other people,” he added. Out of the 10,843 learners identified, almost 90% of them were above the age of 20 years.A volunteer teacher said that the classes are to be held for two hours in a day and the schedule is flexible so that all learners can attend it. Each centre has roughly around 20 learners.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/adult-literacy-scheme-over-10k-in-madurai-identified/articleshow/79519458.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Poll staff get little help from schools, suffer silently||Hyderabad: Officials on election duty posted at various polling stations in the city, especially in the Cyberabad region, have said making arrangements for polls became difficult this time as there was no or little support from school managements as private educational institutions remained shut since March. They said that while at least 5-6 helps from a school used to be present during every election, this time for GHMC elections, no one was present except for the security guard. Even wheelchairs and other equipment/materials of the school, which are used during elections, were not made available. “On Monday and Tuesday, there was no one at the school except us, mostly working with GHMC staff, on election duty. Right from shifting benches to getting the premises cleaned, we took care of everything. When we asked the school management for help, they said they have no staff available as they sacked quite a few of them during the pandemic,” a work inspector, posted at one of the well-known schools in Madhapur, said. Those on election duty said the situation at government schools was even worse as they lacked even basic infrastructure. “We had to supply water through tankers to many schools, which are used as polling stations, as there was water shortage,” an official said. At several polling stations, officials complained they were assigned more than one responsibility due to shortage of staff. “Three or four staff present at the station were taking care of all responsibilities. In fact, after the route officer showed us the polling station on Monday, no one even checked on us to see if we need anything to make arrangements for polling. Even today, the food was not arranged on time, causing severe discomfort to those suffering from diabetes or other ailments,” a presiding officer at a polling station in Kukatpally said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-staff-get-little-help-from-schools-suffer-silently/articleshow/79519469.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard that killed elderly caught in Joshimath, brought to Haridwar rescue centre||Dehradun: A day after a leopard killed an elderly in Chamoli's Paenka village, it was caught by a forest rescue team in Joshimath at 9.30 am on Tuesday. The big cat was on prowl for the past three months in the district, say officials. It has now been transported to Haridwar rescue centre. The development comes after locals of Paenka village on Monday refused to pick up the body of the victim in protest. The body was removed from the road only in late evening after the villagers were assured of necessary action by the district administration and the forest department. According to the forest team, the leopard had attacked and killed a couple of livestock even on Tuesday morning before it entered the cage. “Today (December 1) too, it killed goats and then again, ventured in the same spot where it had killed a man a day ago. Subsequently, the leopard got trapped and now it is being sent to Chidiyapur rescue centre,” said Nanda Ballabh Sharma, DFO, Nanda Devi National Park Division. The official, however, did not specify if the leopard will be ‘radio-collared’ or not. Notably, the forest department has radio-collared three leopards which were found prowling near human landscape in the past two months. Meanwhile, a four-year-old female leopard was found dead on Sunday night on Rishikesh-Badrinath road near Paali. The big cat was killed in a road accident that had occurred barely five kilometres away from Devprayag. A case against the accused driver was registered on the basis of the post-mortem report. It has been learnt that the leopard died after suffering a neck bone fracture. Meanwhile, SDO Devendera Balooni has been assigned to probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-that-killed-elderly-caught-in-joshimath-brought-to-haridwar-rescue-centre/articleshow/79516888.cms||Shivani Azad
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Junior docs at Haldwani Medical College begin indefinite strike for ‘full’ salary||Dehradun: As many as 60 junior resident (JR) doctors from Haldwani Medical College began an indefinite strike, for the fourth time this year, on Tuesday. The agitating doctors are demanding full salary from the state government. The JRs — already the employees of Uttarakhand government — are taking postgraduate education on education leaves for which they get half the amount of the salaries that they used to get while serving in government hospitals. Most of these doctors are sole earners in their families and many of them have taken education and home loans and are paying hefty EMIs for the same. Dr Naveen Semval, a Dehradun resident, who is among the protesters, told TOI that he had completed his MBBS from Srinagar Medical College in 2016 and served in hills (Srinagar and Uttarkashi) for around 2.5 years. Later, he joined Haldwani Medical College for post graduation. “I was earning around 86,000 per month on the job and now my salary is just 33,000. I have a car loan on my head and my marriage is scheduled next month. How the government thinks that I will manage the family in this amount. Around Rs 28,000 goes in loans and EMIs,” said Semval, while adding that those who are not state government staffers do get full stipend of over Rs 50,000. He claimed that the chief minister, in January this year, had made a public announcement that the Provincial Medical Service (PMS) doctors will get full salary but the announcement was not followed by action. Another such protester Dr Mohit Singh, who too is a PMS doctor, is currently pursuing MS in surgery in Haldwani Medical College. He said, “Last time in October, health secretary Amit Negi himself had assured us that our matter will be cleared in the next cabinet meeting but three cabinet meetings have passed since then and nothing has been done,” added Singh. A doctor also told TOI that they are being threatened by the government of being blacklisted and booked. “The principal tells us that the government is likely to book us all. These threats won’t help us because in such conditions, we are finding it difficult to concentrate on studies or on work,” added the doctor. Meanwhile, Dr CP Bhaisoda, principal of Haldwani medical college, said, “At least 58 doctors are currently on protest. We are trying to speak to them. Their concerns are already being considered by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/junior-docs-at-haldwani-medical-college-begin-indefinite-strike-for-full-salary/articleshow/79516905.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Woman dies at home during ‘biryani fight’||Kolkata: A 48-year-old homemaker died when her sister-in-law, who is an architect and owns an architecture firm in the Dalhousie area, attacked her at their two-storey Ganguly Bagan house under Patuli police station on Monday evening. According to police, the accused was angry when her son started vomiting after allegedly being served ‘stale’ biryani by the victim. The architect has been arrested.Cops added that the accused pinned down the victim to the bed and started hitting her. She stopped only after the victim fell unconscious and her husband rushed in hearing his wife’s cries.The victim, Falguni Basu, was rushed to the Baghajatin Hospital, where she was declared dead.The family claimed that the accused, Sharmistha Basu (40), was schizophrenic and would often burst into anger over trivial issues. “We have asked the family to provide medical details of the accused. Though primary investigations show the victim suffered a heart attack during the assault, we will seek forensic evidence before arriving at a conclusion,” said a senior investigating officer. The victim’s husband, Arindam Basu (56), is a senior officer with the state agriculture department and the accused’s husband, Anshuman Basu (44), is a director of a Sector V firm, said policwe officers.Police said both Sharmistha and Falguni had minor arguments in the past. However, this was the first time there was a physical assault involving the two. The accused’s son and the husband of the deceased were also present at the house on Monday. “Falguni treated Sharmistha’s son as her own and often treated him with delicacies. Sharmistha wouldn’t like that as she thought that her son was being overfed and served junk food. On Monday, an argument broke out between the two after her son vomitted when his tutor had come. Sharmistha suddenly caught Falguni by her hair near the dining table,” said an investigating officer. “She was then dragged on to a bed and pinned down. We believe the sudden severe assault led to Falguni suffering a major cardiac arrest. By the time Arindam could rush in and take her to hospital with the help of the tutor and neighbours, it was too late. We have enough evidence to suggest this was not a pre-planned attack or murder,” the officer added. “A case was recorded on the basis of letter of the complaint of Arindam at Patuli police station in which he alleged that Sharmistha Basu had allegedly committed culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Arrangements are being made for post-mortem to ascertain the actual cause of death. Further investigation and noting of statements are in progress. The accused woman has been arrested,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-at-home-during-biryani-fight/articleshow/79518046.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: Sanitation, distancing norms flouted at polling stations||HYDERABAD: GHMC officials failed to mark circles, which are meant to maintain social distance by voters, at a polling station at Warasiguda in Secunderabad, on Tuesday as part of polling day. In another polling station at Jangammet, voters stood in lines similar to queues at theatres. Though Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) had made marking circles mandatory at every polling station in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the civic body ignored most of the polling stations. Another major precautionary measure was providing sanitisers. Though sanitiser bottles were available at polling stations, none of the polling staff were found utilising them for the voters, before they entered the voting compartment. Even GHMC sanitation staff did not insist the voters use it. A few voters also carried sanitisers along with them, but police did not allow the sanitisers inside the polling station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-distancing-norms-flouted-at-polling-stns/articleshow/79519480.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Thanjavur dist tops central region in Covid cases, Tirunelveli in south TN||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 146 Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the tally to 1,29,471 cases, which include 1,136 active cases, 1,26,267 recoveries and 2,068 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 130 cases taking the tally to 70,802, which include 1,003 active cases and 68,900 discharged cases. A day after recording zero fresh cases for the first time, Ariyalur recorded five fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 4,567. The number of active cases in the district was 26, while the death toll remained 48 for several days. Tirunelveli (28) reported the most number of fresh cases in the southern region on Tuesday. Three other districts in the southern region, Madurai (25), Dindigul (22) and Virudhunagar (20) reported more than 20 fresh cases. Madurai (235) and Dindigul (171) districts have the most number of active cases in the south, followed by Tirunelveli (140), Kanyakumari (138) and Tuticorin (121). After seeing a gradual rise in new cases during the past week, Virudhunagar (106) crossed 100 active cases on Tuesday. All other districts have less than 100 active cases, with Theni (20) having the lowest number. Barring Kanyakumari (18) and Sivaganga (10), all remaining districts in the south -- Tuticorin (9), Virudhunagar (8), Tenkasi (5), Theni (5), and Ramanathapuram (4) -- recorded fresh cases in single digits only on Tuesday. The lone Covid-19 death in the region was in Madurai. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains 1.6%. Among the central districts, Perambalur also registered three cases after a few days of zero cases. The district has five active cases, the lowest in the central region. Pudukottai, which has the third highest number of total positive cases (11,131) in the region, recorded eight cases on Tuesday. Thanjavur recorded 39 fresh cases, taking the tally to 16,459, the highest number of fresh cases in the region. The death toll (229) of Thanjavur is also the highest in the region. The region recorded no deaths maintaining the toll at 899 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/thanjavur-dist-tops-central-region-in-covid-cases-tirunelveli-in-south-tn/articleshow/79519463.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||CM Rawat appoints party leaders in government boards, councils and commissions||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday appointed as many as 10 BJP leaders, including a couple of former MLAs, in different boards, councils, corporations and commissions. According to Darshan Singh Rawat, media coordinator of CM Rawat, Sher Singh Gadiya, who is an ex-MLA from Bageshwar, has been made vice chairman of Twenty Point Programme Implementation Committee, while Vinay Rohila from Udham Singh Nagar has been appointed vice-chairman of the State Planning Commission. Both of them have been given cabinet minister rank. Former MLA from Karnprayag, Anil Nautiyal, has been appointed as vice-chairman of Uttarakhand Medicinal Plants Board, Sanjay Sehgal from Haridwar will be the vice-chairman of National Rural Health Advisory and Monitoring Council. Also, Rajpal Singh Rawat from Dehradun has been made the vice-chairman of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana monitoring committee. Similarly, Govind Pilkhwal, who hails from Almora, has been made the vice-chairman of Uttarakhand Tea Development Board, while CM Rawat has appointed Jagveer Singh Bhandari from Uttarkashi as the vice-chairman of State Horticulture Board and Tarun Bansal from Haldwani has been made the vice-chairman of the state-level industry coordination council. Sanjay Negi has been appointed as the vice-chairman of Uttarakhand's Other Backward Commission and Surendra Mogha has been made the vice-chairman of Social Welfare Scheme Monitoring Committee. All the eight political appointees will enjoy minister-of-state status, according to Darshan Singh Rawat. In a separate appointment, the chief minister made Lieutenant General Jaiveer Singh Negi (retired) as his advisor in the matters of military and frontier area security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-rawat-appoints-party-leaders-in-government-boards-councils-and-commissions/articleshow/79516908.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor skirmishes mar peaceful GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Barring minor skirmishes, no major incidents of violence were reported during polling for GHMC on Tuesday. At some places, TRS and BJP workers ended up in scuffles, levelling allegations of malpractices against each other. Police had to use mild force to disperse mobs at different places in the three city commissionerates. MIM and BJP workers too clashed at some places. Tension prevailed at Sheikhpet Government High School after BJP cadre protested by attempting to barge into a polling station after an MIM leader went inside the booth. Police resorted to lathi charge to disperse activists of both parties. On learning the situation turned serious, senior Hyderabad police officers rushed to the spot and deployed a large number of policemen. Trouble started when BJP cadre came to know that an MIM leader went inside a polling booth, reportedly to influence polling. A little later, MIM supporters too reached the polling station. Police had to wield their lathis to disperse both groups. Similarly, two rival groups exchanged blows and a person suffered injuries at Banjara Hills after BJP and MIM members came face to face. At Ram Nagar eSeva centre at Adikmet, TRS worker Sudhakar Gupta was assaulted by BJP workers. TRS and BJP workers also got into scuffle at Gopanpally near Serilingampally, Patancheru and Madhapur. In another incident, a Congress activist, who was in a car at Humayun Nagar, was attacked by rivals. He suffered bleeding injuries. Earlier in the day, BJP workers stopped a car near Forum Mall at KPHB Colony, alleging the vehicle, belonging to minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar, was being used by TRS workers to distribute cash among voters. BJP workers also roughed up a local alleging that he was unduly influencing voters. “The minister was not in the car. We do not know to whom the car belongs. We dispersed the mob. If anyone lodges a complaint, appropriate legal action will be initiated,” ACP, Kukatpally, B Surendar Rao said. At Jiyaguda, BJP and MIM workers clashed after the latter party’s candidate alleged he was threatened by BJP workers. Police had to use force to disperse the mob. At sensitive and hyper sensitive booths, armed police were posted. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar and Cyberabad CP V C Sajjanar said there were no major untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-skirmishes-mar-peaceful-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79519486.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||‘For Covid recovery, keep climate goals in mind’||“If we do not take steps towards reducing warm temperatures, we are moving towards suicide in relation to future generations,” said Antonio Gueterres, the United Nations secretary-general, in an exclusive interview with TOI from his New York headquarters. Gueterres was speaking a few hours before his ‘State of the Planet’ virtual speech from the Columbia University. It is linked to the fifth anniversary of the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement. The interview was coordinated by Covering Climate Now, a global consortium of news outlets to strengthen coverage of the climate story. “We need to keep the temperature growth to 1.5° Celsius at the end of the century. And to reach this objective, we need to be carbon neutral in 2050. Else, the conditions of living in our planet will be severely undermined,” he added. Excerpts from the interview… Q. India is opening more coal mines to spur the economy despite significant increase in air pollution. What would be your message to India? A. By adopting the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) in line with 2 degree increase in temperature at end of century, leading the solar alliance and innovation in renewables, India had made remarkable efforts to tackle climate change. But, my appeal to India is to join what we are building now, which is a global coalition for net zero emissions in the middle of the century. Europe, Japan and Korea have announced net zero by 2050, China before 2060 and soon the new American administration will join the coalition. I am very hopeful that soon India will be able to join the net zero coalition. I would ask India to make a bigger effort in promoting renewables. Today, it is more expensive to keep a rogue power plant working than to build from scratch a renewable plant. So, to build new coal power plants is to build stranded assets, not the best way to look into our future. I am not asking India to close all power plants which will take time. There is no future in coal for the production of energy. The future is in renewables. Nobody will benefit more in the drastic reduction of pollution — coal is a part of it — than the Indian population. Q. A recent report released by 14 global think tanks reveals that India is the only G20 nation which is on a track consistent to move the world to a 2-degree Celsius warming future, though not a 1.5 degree warming future. What should be the next step for India? A. Every G-20 country must commit to the 2 degree C warming, if not the 1.5 degree C mark. And every G-20 must commit to net zero emissions by the middle of the century. It is only now we are seeing a movement in this direction. Full credit to the Indian political will for what it has achieved. Q. In response to your speech at the TERI conference, there is a lot of discussion in India about the country’s NDC and its compatibility to 2 degree Celsius. Do you think India’s NDC is sufficient for moving forward or there is scope to renew it given the announcement we have seen by other countries recently? A. It is obvious that India has made extremely important contributions. But, as times go by, India must also improve its NDC. I believe that India’s contribution will become more and more important in future. Having said so, I pay tribute to the efforts that India has already made, and I wish the best success in making sure that India becomes a true leader in climate action as it corresponds to the will of the Indian government and people. Q. Observers doubt the commitment of countries that have announced net zero target. What needs to be done to make the international community confident that these pledges will be achieved? A. There are two very important credibility tests. One is in relation to the NDC that will be presented before COP26 in Glasgow next year and, second, the investments and measures that will be announced. For instance, reducing subsidies to fossil fuels, stopping the construction of nuclear power plants, shifting taxation from income to pollution, supporting more effectively renewables. It will be very important to see how countries will commit themselves. Developed countries will have to make sure that the promise to provide $100 billion per year to developing countries — both for mitigation and adaptation — is implemented. It is absolutely crucial that this is implemented, that measures are taken to mobilize the private sector. Asset managers are decarbonizing their portfolios. We see banks aligning more with climate action in their lending capacities. But this is still minor. There are several Indian companies that have shown it. For instance, the Mahindra group has been absolutely pioneering in this dimension. Q. The United States — the largest historic source of greenhouse gas emissions and second only to China in annual emissions — spent the last four years galloping in the wrong direction, including by withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. The incoming Biden administration has promised to rejoin the Agreement. How has the back and forth affected the pace and momentum of climate action? A. The level of emissions of Unites States even during the last four years is still the highest but has been reduced. The new administration has announced that it will be aiming at net zero. With a strong government in place, the American society will be able to respond well. You will see that the NDC will come as soon as the US rejoins the Paris Agreement and prepares for COP26. I hope they will be clear in making sure that the US assumes leadership in climate action and does not lag behind other countries. Because, without US it will be impossible to achieve our goals to limit the growth of temperature at end of century by 1.5 degrees Celsius. Q. It’s nearing 5 years since Paris Agreement was signed. Do you feel any progress has been made? A. The Paris Agreement is a good road map. But it is necessary that it is implemented. It was known five years ago that the NDCs that were presented were not sufficient and needed to be enhanced. Only India’s NDC (within the G-20) is in line for the 2 degrees warming. Many other countries are still 2.5-3 or 5 degrees at the end of the century. That will be devastating for the global economy. The consequences in a country like India I can imagine. India is suffering so much with climate change. There has been no political will in these last five years. But now we see a new momentum. The private sector is showing to governments that they need to act, the youth are mobilizing everywhere, the civil society with enormous energy is pushing for action. We are at war with nature. Look at what is happening to the storms and hurricanes that are destroying economies in many countries. Look at drought which is having a terrible impact. India is suffering a lot. It is putting into question the food security at many parts of the world. Look at the people dying with heat waves, pollution. Look at the corals bleaching, glaciers melting. People are getting conscious that we are destroying the planet. From now on, I am sure there will be a new momentum. At the UN, we will do everything possible to make sure that 2021 is the year of truth, the year in which we move decisively into 1.5 degrees at the end of the century as an objective for everybody. We must make peace between humankind and nature. And if we do not act immediately, things will be irreversible. And when things are irreversible, then it means that the future of our children and grandchildren will be dramatically impacted. Q. The Green Climate Fund is woefully under-resourced. Instead of the $100 billion a year that rich countries are obliged to provide, it has received $10 billion in total since 2014. What is your strategy for fixing this mismatch so that poor countries can fight poverty without wrecking the climate in the process? A. Well, I truly believe that the Green Climate Fund is underfunded. It needs to be much stronger. There has to more solidarity with the Green Fund. We need to make sure developed countries are committed to contribute $100 billion per year. They need to support developing countries in adaptation and taking mitigation measures. International multilateral institutions, nationalized banks and private sector must do whatever necessary to support the developing world in connection with climate action. Let us not limit our ambition to the Green Fund. We need to have a massive mobilization of global funds. Q. Does UK’s decision to reduce the aid it provides to other developing countries sends out a wrong signal, especially when we are seeing consecutive record-breaking extreme weather conditions across the globe? A. Any reduction done at the present moment sends a very negative signal. We need more aid and we also need more diversification of the instruments. We need to have a Covid-19 recovery plan and, debt relief and reconstruction given to a number of countries. Measures taken by G-20 are not enough. It is essential to increase liquidity in international markets. We have been appealing for special drawing rights to be put at the disposal of developing countries. A massive mobilization is needed for the developing world to recover from Covid-19 and make sure at the same time that the recovery is in line with sustainable and inclusive future of the world’s climate action. Q. Would you say 2020 has been the year where Asian countries announced much more ambitious climate targets than the developed western countries? A. It is essential that all developed countries commit to a reduction of 45% of their emissions until 2030, to carbon neutrality in 2050 and implement the $100 billion fund. The developed countries have a particular responsibility in fulfilling the role. Developed countries must lead the world. They have the obligation to do so because they have been for decades the main contributors to global warming. Q. Do you think the pandemic has pushed back gains made in decarbonization around the world? There are reports that some countries are using Covid-19 as a reason to dig more coal. A: It is true that we are seeing 50% more of the recovery money being used for fossil fuel-related activities than renewables. This is regrettable. I think it is essential that the money that is used to recover from the pandemic responds to the fragility that the pandemic has shown in equality. Look, we are spending trillions of dollars that are being borrowed. It means we are going to give a debt to the new generations. It is essential that the money that we are spending to recover is in line with the green economy, with the priority to renewables in energy and in relation to all other aspects of green recovery in industry, agriculture and all human activities. EXPLAINEDNationally Determined Contributions | NDCs embody efforts by each country to reduce national emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate change. The Paris Agreement (Article 4, paragraph 2) requires each Party to prepare, communicate and maintain successive NDCs that it intends to achieve. Parties shall pursue domestic mitigation measures with the aim of achieving the objectives of such contributions COP26 | The United Nations Climate Change Conference to be held in Glasgow from November 1 to 10 next year. Paris Agreement | In 2015, 196 parties came together under the Paris Agreement to transform their development trajectories so that they set the world on a course towards sustainable development, aiming at limiting warming to 1.5 to 2 degrees C above pre-industrial levels. Through the Paris Agreement, parties also agreed to a long-term goal for adaptation — to increase the ability to adapt to the adverse impacts of climate change and foster climate resilience and low greenhouse gas emissions development, in a manner that does not threaten food production. Additionally, they agreed to work towards making finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development. $100 billion per year | The amount pledged by developed countries to underdeveloped countries for mitigation measures and other climate related work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-covid-recovery-keep-climate-goals-in-mind/articleshow/79530296.cms||Sunil Warrier
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||HNBGU holds its 8th convocation ceremony: NEP 2020 will make world-class citizens, says Nishank||Dehradun: The Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University in Srinagar, Uttarakhand, held its eighth convocation ceremony on Tuesday. The ceremony was held virtually and was broadcasted live on various social media platforms and Doordarshan. This year, 155 students registered for online convocation, 72 students were awarded PhD, 59 gold medals were awarded to the toppers in various subjects, out of which, 15 gold medals were given by the sponsors. This year, the theme of the convocation was — 2020 Online Education and Resilience — which is an overview of the university’s efforts to implement the formula of “Teaching, Learning and Skill Development: Towards a Himalayan Spirit”. The chief guest of the event was Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Union minister of education, who gave his best wishes to the graduates. “Those who are graduating today will represent our country and take it to even greater heights. He further said that the university has one of the most beautiful campuses in the country and expressed his gratitude for being an alumnus of the university. Speaking about the recently introduced New Education Policy (NEP) 2020, the MP from Haridwar, said, “The NEP 2020 will further improve the education system of our country. It will create world-class citizens and will also make sure that the citizens are completely attached with their Indian roots and culture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hnbgu-holds-its-8th-convocation-ceremony-nep-2020-will-make-world-class-citizens-says-nishank/articleshow/79516911.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 2, 2020||India||TMC rebel meets Mamata's kin and PK, sparks speculation||KOLKATA: In a dramatic turn of events, rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) member Suvendu Adhikari, who had resigned from the Bengal cabinet just four days ago, met chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and party strategist Prashant Kishor on Tuesday evening, prompting party functionaries to claim that he was “firmly with the Trinamool” and “there was no question of him going anywhere”. There was no word from Suvendu himself about the outcome of the hush-hush dialogue held at a north Kolkata address, but it was his first face-to-face meeting in the past few months with Abhishek and Kishor. Two other senior party MPs, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandyopadhyay, were also present at the meeting. “Suvendu was happy with the antorikota (sincerity) on display,” a TMC veteran told TOI after the meeting. “There was a phone call from the meeting to Kalighat (CM’s residence),” the veteran said. TMC functionaries said that Suvendu had been “requested” to be present at Mamata’s Midnapore rally next week and was promised that he would have “an important role to play in selection of candidates for the assembly polls”. Saugata Roy, entrusted with the task of engaging Suvendu in talks and keeping him in the party fold, insisted that Suvendu was “very much with TMC” and would not be “going anywhere”. “We needed to meet face-to-face and, hence, Tuesday’s meeting. All is fine, it was a good meeting (Sab mite giyechhe, bhalo meeting hoyechhe). He may clarify his position to the media on Wednesday,” he added. There has been speculation — which Suvendu or his politically influential family has not denied — that his rebellion was against the increasing importance of Abhishek and Kishor in the party and his being “sidelined” within the organisation. Suvendu has been holding “apolitical” rallies on home turf East Midnapore and neighbouring districts like West Midnapore and Hooghly over the past few weeks. He quit his transport and irrigation portfolios on Friday, asking for “immediate acceptance” of his resignation. He also gave up his Z-category security and government flats, fuelling speculation that he would be quitting TMC as well. BJP seniors like state party chief Dilip Ghosh and Congress seniors, including Bengal unit chief Adhir Chowdhury, have actively wooed Suvendu, calling him an “asset” for any party. Suvendu’s father and Trinamool Contai MP, Sisir Adhikari, was cryptic in his reaction. “It will be good for the Trinamool if Suvendu does not leave the party,” he said. BJP responded guardedly with party Bengal chief Ghosh contending that “Suvendu’s staying back with TMC is not a blow to BJP”. “It is TMC’s internal matter. I have nothing to say if they can manage the feud... But our doors are still open for Suvendu,” he added. Central leader and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya still sounded hopeful: “I am sure Suvendu will not bend before anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-rebel-meets-mamatas-kin-and-pk-sparks-speculation/articleshow/79520803.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Govt transfers Tehri district social welfare officer over press release encouraging inter-faith, inter-caste marriages||Dehradun: The state government on Tuesday transferred Deepakar Ghildiyal, district social welfare officer of Tehri, following the controversy related to the press release issued by him that is alleged to be promoting a government scheme incentivising inter-caste and inter-faith marriages in the state. Ghildiyal has been transferred to the social welfare directorate in Haldwani and he has been asked to join immediately, according to the order issued by director of the social welfare department, Vinod Goswami. Incidentally, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ordered a probe in the matter to ascertain the circumstances that led to the issuing of the press release by the district social welfare officer. Earlier, a section of people had criticised the state government’s policy on social media platforms saying that the press release is an “attempt to encourage the practice of love jihad”. The controversial press release stated that Uttarakhand government is paying Rs 50,000 to encourage inter-caste and inter-faith couples and the eligible couples can apply for the cash incentive till one year of their marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-transfers-tehri-district-social-welfare-officer-over-press-release-encouraging-inter-faith-inter-caste-marriages/articleshow/79516928.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 2, 2020||Mumbai||Top domestic job offers at IITs rise 30% to Rs 80 lakh||MUMBAI: Domestic packages offered at some IITs have gone up several notches this year. A package of Rs 80 lakh has been offered by more than one firm on some campuses—a jump from last year’s highest of Rs 62 lakh.  Among international firms, California-based IT giant Cohesity has offered the highest package of $200,000 (close to Rs 1.5 crore). However, trading firm Optiver, with a competitive package of 157,000 euros (nearly Rs 1.4 crore), has picked more students for its Amsterdam and Sydney profiles. Interviews were conducted virtually this year.At IIT-Bombay, Optiver picked seven students for roles in trading, software and Quant research for Amsterdam and Sydney profiles. There were more interviews scheduled by Optiver, even in the second slot at IIT-Bombay, said a student. A student said the numbers of roles offered by the institute is very encouraging given the pandemic situation. Cohesity, with the highest offer, had shortlisted one student for the US profile in the second slot. The final offer was not confirmed. Domestic recruiters like Qualcomm picked a larger number -- 11 from the Powai campus and eight from IIT Madras. The telecom major’s compensation package stood at Rs 46.4 lakh, followed by Rs 39.7 lakh offered by WorldQuant, Rs 37.2 lakh by Morgan Stanley and Rs 35.3 lakh by Uber. Around 18 companies were part of the first session, and the highest offers were made by Microsoft, Google, Texas Instruments, Qualcomm, Boston Consulting Group, Apple and Bain & Co at IIT-Bombay. A total of 153 pre-placement offers (PPOs) were made to the graduating class of 2021 from the institute. At IIT-Kanpur, Day One closed with a total of 226 offers. Graviton Trading picked three students for a package of Rs 82 lakh, and QuantBox offered a package of Rs 80 lakh to one student (package includes joining and performance bonuses). Cohesity offered the US profile to one student. Other leading domestic offers of over Rs 60 lakh were made by Apple and Cohesity (for Indian profiles). Google and Microsoft offered attractive packages for domestic profiles at the institute. IIT Madras beat the Covid blues as a total of 123 offers were made by 22 companies during Day One’s Session 1.1, higher than in any of the preceding academic years. During the last academic year of 2019-20, 102 offers were made by 20 companies at the end of Session 1.1. Top recruiters at IIT-Madras included Microsoft (19 offers), Texas Instruments (12), Bajaj Auto (10), ISRO (10), Alphonso Inc (9). The second slot of the day had 24 companies, including TSMC, KLA Tencor, GE and Wipro.  Of the 425 internship opportunities, 276 were converted into pre-placement offers at IIT-Kharagpur. “This is the highest number among all other top academic institutes in India at the top MNCs in spite of the current economic condition,” said A Rajakumar, chairperson, Career Development Centre, IIT Kharagpur. Around 30 companies participated on Day One and 130-plus placement offers were made. TSMC, Sony-Japan and Cohesity US offered international profiles at the institute. In the initial few days of the recruitment drive, around 25-27% companies are from the core sector, 65% are from software and 10% are from the consulting sector. At IIT Roorkee, three international offers were made in the first slot, one each from Japanese IT firm Diverta Inc, Topline and London-based investment firm Squarepoint Capital. But the big-ticket recruiter which made the buzz was one that picked up a student by offering an annual domestic package of Rs 80 lakh, up from the previous year’s domestic high of Rs 60 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/top-domestic-job-offers-at-iits-rise-30-to-rs-80l/articleshow/79520309.cms||Yogita Rao
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||With tiger lurking amid cane fields, farmers halt harvesting in Pilibhit village||Pilibhit: Residents of Madhotanda village in Kalinagar tehsil seem to have no respite from the danger posed by tigers. A week after a tigress lurking amid the reeds of the banks of Kharja canal near their village for a fortnight retreated into the Barahi forest range in Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR), they have been forced to stop harvesting sugarcane as a three-year-old tiger was spotted in the area. According to villagers, the tiger was first sighted on November 29, just 1 km from their village. It has been prowling about in the vicinity since then. A joint forest team of PTR and the forest and wildlife division has been deployed in the area to monitor the tiger’s movement. But so far, it have not been able to push the big cat back into the forest. Villagers are fuming as they have been forced to halt all agricultural activity in the midst of peak harvesting season. Besides the tiger has killed two calves. Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer of forest and wildlife division, said, “The big cats are straying out of the forest due to increasing numbers in PTR. The reserve does not have jungle space to accommodate 65 tigers.” Dismissing the view, Lucknow-based wildlife enthusiast and former member of Uttarakhand wildlife board Kaushalendra Singh alleged that PTR’s problems stem from “acute crisis of prey base due to lack of proper grassland management”. He accused the forest department officials of failing to control the rapidly dwindling number of herbivores in PTR. “Why will a tiger go back to the core forest area if it can kill livestock in villages and if it is facing space crunch in the wild,” he wondered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-tiger-lurking-amid-cane-fields-farmers-halt-harvesting-in-pilibhit-village/articleshow/79516924.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Govt departments linked with Smart City command centre||Dehradun: Several government departments of the district were linked to the smart city integrated control command centre (ICCC) ‘Sadaiv Doon’ on Tuesday. The departments which have been linked with ICCC include police, Uttarakhand Jal Sansthan, Pey Jal Nigam, MDDA, and Dehradun Municipal Corporation. According to the officials, the training of officers from the departments linked to the ICCC has been initiated from Tuesday and will be completed in phases. The training module will include basic IT skills, software application, system administration help desk, and tracking of public-related services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-departments-linked-with-smart-city-command-centre/articleshow/79516942.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Cases on rise, NMC reaches out to comorbids to control deaths||Nagpur: With Covid-19 positive cases on the rise in the district, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has launched a campaign to reach out to persons with comorbidities, to control number of deaths in case of a spike in cases. The district registered 515 new cases, of which 417 were from the city, on Tuesday. The figure crossed 500 after a gap of 40 days, after October 22, when there were 602 cases. The district had witnessed 5-6 weeks of peak from third week of August to end of September. Cases started to decline from last week of September, and continued dropping till second week of November. Daily average of cases was 269 in first week, followed by 243 in second week. Cases increased to 285 per day in third week, followed by 378 in last week. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “Majority of the deceased were comorbid. We have details of around 81,000 persons with comorbidities. These details were collected during NMC’s door-to-door drive in April and state government’s ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign in September-October. Our team will visit these persons, inquire about their health, check for symptoms, take oxygen saturation level, and give immunity boosters.” All these people will be guided on ways to avoid contracting the disease, and prompted to visit NMC testing centre or inform on call centre in case they get any symptoms. “Early detection can help in controlling the deaths. Early testing and treatment of comorbid patients is very crucial,” he said. NMC health department started the campaign last week. The target is to cover all persons with comorbidities in next 15 days. Radhakrishnan added, “NMC will also hold a meeting with doctors treating diabetic patients. Number of persons with comorbidities is likely to be over 1.50 lakh in the city. We will collect database of patients from these doctors. Also, they will be advised early testing and treatment to patients in case of symptoms.” NMC additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma said, “Plan has been chalked out to ensure proper management of beds in case of spike in cases. We are planning to introduce token system to ensure availability of beds to all patients and monitor admissions. We will give a token to patient, who will get a bed in government and private hospitals on the basis of token.” During peak in August and September, many patients had faced serious problems in getting beds in private hospitals. Sharma also said none of the private hospitals have been given permission to switch over to non-Covid patients though cases were low for last two months. The district has capacity of around 4,000 beds in private and government hospitals. The deaths too are slightly on the rise from third week of November. Daily average of deaths was 9 in first week of November and declined to 7 in second week. The number of fatalities increased to 10 per day in last two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-on-rise-nmc-reaches-out-to-comorbids-to-control-deaths/articleshow/79518224.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||473 new Covid-19 cases surface in U’khand, infection rising in hills||With 473 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Tuesday, the coronavirus tally of Uttarakhand crossed the 75,000-mark. Also, seven more deaths pushed the death toll of the virus to 1,238 in the state. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that the Covid-19 test reports of 11,701 samples were negative on Tuesday. “The maximum of 164 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 51 in Pithoragarh, 43 in Chamoli, 40 in Haridwar, 32 in Almora, 26 in Pauri, 25 in Tehri, 24 cases each in Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital, 16 in Uttarkashi, 14 in Bageshwar, 10 in Champawat, and four in Rudraprayag district,” said Tripathi, while adding that Covid-19 tally in the state stood at 75,268 on Tuesday. Among the seven coronavirus-related deaths on the day, two patients each died in the Army Hospital of Pithoragarh and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College of Haldwani, and one each in Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Base Hospital of Srinagar, Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, and Sri Mahant Indiresh Hospital of Dehradun. Meanwhile, health watchers in the state have expressed concern over rising cases in the hills. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that percentage of Covid-19 cases in the nine hill districts is going up rapidly since September. “In September, 74% percent of the total cases were concentrated in plains and the remaining 26% were in hills. In October, plains were accountable for 61% Covid-19 cases, followed by 39% in hills. And in November, plains reported 58% Covid-19 cases while the rest 42% coronavirus cases were reported from the hills. To check new cases in the hills, we need more community awareness and more preparations from the state government,” added Nautiyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/473-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand-infection-rising-in-hills/articleshow/79516972.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Union minister launches five-star village postal scheme in U’khand||Dehradun: Sanjay Dhotre, the Union minister of state for communications and human resources development, on Tuesday inaugurated five-star village postal scheme to ensure universal coverage of flagship postal schemes in rural areas of the state. He also distributed Sukanya Samirdhi Yojana passbooks, cheque books, ATM cards, and saving bank passbooks to the beneficiaries of Senior Citizens' Welfare Fund Scheme. During his week-long visit in Uttarakhand, Dhotre also chaired the review meeting of Uttarakhand postal circle at Dehradun's general post office. He appreciated the work of postal services during the lockdown period. During the meeting, he mentioned that fifty villages have initially been selected from seven districts — including four from Kumaon, and three from Garhwal region. These districts are Almora, Chamoli, Nainital, Pauri, Tehri, and Pithoragarh. All these districts have seven village each where the scheme will be implemented. Meanwhile, Dehradun district has eight villages nominated for five-star village postal scheme. In a media interaction, Dhotre said, “Postal department is competing with other banking services. Now, people can use the post office as the post payment bank and avail Aadhaar enrolment service in every post office.” An official said, “We have identified fifty villages and each household of these village will be brought under the five different schemes like Postal Life Insurance (PLI), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), India Post Payment Bank (IPPB), Public Provident Fund (PPF), and Sukanya Samirdhi Yojana.” Anusya Prasad, senior Superintendent of Post Office (SSPOs), Dehradun said, “Uttarakhand circle has covered 62% of the total eligible girl child in Sukanya Samridhi Abhiyaan. We stand next only to Himachal Pradesh. A total 3,98,576 SSA accounts have been opened in the Uttarakhand circle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/union-minister-launches-five-star-village-postal-scheme-in-ukhand/articleshow/79516981.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
December 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Police launch drive to track missing kids||Aurangabad: City police, keeping up with the annual tradition of carrying out a dedicated drive to trace out missing children, has launched a dedicated programme from December 1 to 31. As part of the initiative, police teams at the commissionorate and police station levels would treat each missing or kidnapping case of each children in the age group of 1 to 18 years as fresh and probe it accordingly. “All the cases that have not been detected in the past five years will be scanned and fresh attempts would be made to find a clue about the missing children,” crime branch inspector Anil Gaikwad said. Efforts to track down the children who went missing in the past five years and also efforts would be made to help children on the street, found abandoned, begging or working at roadside stalls to find their parents. All the rescued children would be handed over to correctional homes. Sources said that city police chief Nikhil Gupta has ordered to pay special attention in finding the parents of the children forced into begging, rag picking or child labour. Officials maintained that the children found working as rag pickers, working or begging at religious institutes, hospitals, shops would be treated as missing children and their photographs would be clicked and efforts would be made to track their parents. Sources said that there are standing orders to the officers at the police station level to pay visit to the houses of the missing children and gather all the possible details and clues, if any, so that once again efforts are made to solve the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-launch-drive-to-track-missing-kids/articleshow/79516980.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Earthquake of 3.9 magnitude jolts Haridwar||Dehradun: An earthquake measuring 3.9 on the Richter Scale jolted the Haridwar district of Uttarakhand at 9.41 am on Tuesday. Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC), said that no loss of life and property was reported due to the low intensity of the tremor that lasted for a few seconds. According to the regional meteorological centre in Dehradun, the earthquake struck at a focal depth of 10 km from the surface and was centred 22 km west-north-west (WNW) of Haridwar. Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre, said, “The epicentre of the quake that jolted the district was located at latitude 30.74 degree north and longitude 77.95 degree east i.e near the Kankhal locality of the town.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/earthquake-of-3-9-magnitude-jolts-haridwar/articleshow/79516988.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Forest dept starts nature walk in Japanese Garden||Nagpur: To inculcate nature education among citizens, Nagpur forest division has started guided nature walk in Japanese Garden. The first such trail was inaugurated by APCCF Vikas Gupta, in presence of DyCF Prabhu Nath Shukla, ACF (Seminary Hill) Surendra Kale and representative of WWF, India, Ajinkya Bhatkar. The nature walk will be conducted on every Sunday and will start at 7am from Balodyan gate. Department will give certificates to those who will participate in 10 such walks. The charges is Rs25 for students and Rs50 for others. Size of each group will be maximally 15. Maximum 30 participants will be allowed on each organizing day. The two hour nature walk will give the glimpse of amazing landscape of Japanese Garden, and its diverse flora and fauna. For organizing the programme regularly, the department will sign an MOU with Centre for Animal Rescue & Study, Amravati. A dry deciduous reserve forest area the 67.41 hectare Japanese Garden is home to 100 butterfly and bird species. Shubham Chhapekar, biologist of Gorewada International Zoo, Mamta Bhadade, zoology lecturer of Hislop College, Kumud Paidlewar, project associate of NEERI, and Aman Deogade, apprentice of entomology, Mohata Science College, will be available with the team as experts. Gupta said, “Nature walk enhances our efficiency and strength in many ways. Our brain registers the wind blowing through leaves and trees, bird sounds revitalize a fatigued mind. Department should encourage particularly youths and children, to participate in the activity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/forest-dept-starts-nature-walk-in-japanese-garden/articleshow/79516019.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||DM orders FIR against three for cruelty against 12-year-old boy inside madarsa||Pilibhit: An FIR was lodged on Tuesday evening against three people, including the manager of Madarsa Aljamiya Tul, Razbiya Madinatul, its teacher, Raza e Rasool[PLEASE CONFIRM NAMES], and Shahid Noor, the father of a 12-year-old boy who was allegedly brutalized inside the madarsa and had to be been rescued by child helpline on November 25.The FIR was lodged after district magistrate Pulkit Shrivastav took serious cognisance of the matter and asked chairperson Zeenat Jahan Begum of child welfare committee (CWC) to explain the reason for delay in filing of a written police complaint. The DM also rebuked Mohammad Khalid, the district minority welfare officer, who had given a clean chit to the madarsa management, alleging instead that the minor had narrated a false story of his victimisation.On November 27, when the minor had been produced by child helpline before CWC, for legal action against the accused, he had recorded his statement claiming that along with seven other children, he had been subjected to brutal beating and inhuman torture inside the madarsa, where the teachers used to fasten him with metal chains.The CWC chairperson said that in compliance with the DM’s orders, a written complaint was filed with Pilibhit Kotwali police station, while a detailed letter has also been sent to the DM explaining reasons for the delay in taking action.Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said the three accused were booked under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-orders-fir-against-three-for-cruelty-against-12-year-old-boy-inside-madarsa/articleshow/79516985.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||DGP forms grievance redressal panel to look into issues of cops||Dehradun: A day after taking over as the new DGP Uttarakhand, Ashok Kumar on Tuesday formed a Police Personnel Grievance Redressal Committee at police headquarters level to look into the transfer-related requests of police personnel. The committee with IG Headquarters as its head and IG law and order, SP personnel, and deputy SP headquarters as its members will also consider other service related and personal issues of the cops, according to DGP Ashok Kumar. Police headquarters have also issued a Whatsapp number — 9411112780 — on which any police personnel having any issue, be it related to transfer, service, or personal issue — can send his/her complaint. “The complaints, on priority basis, will be sent to the district or range for immediate redressal. The issues, if need arises, will be addressed at police headquarters level,” said Ashok Kumar. He added that he is going to review the redressal of complaints by the committee on a weekly basis. It is to be noted that Ashok Kumar after taking over as the new DGP of Uttarakhand announced that he is going to take a slew of measures for the welfare of police personnel to increase their happiness quotient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dgp-forms-grievance-redressal-panel-to-look-into-issues-of-cops/articleshow/79517001.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 2, 2020||Meerut||UP, Haryana farmers clash with swords, many injured, 5 taken 'hostage'||Meerut: Farmers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana again came face-to-face over a territorial dispute near the bordering region separated by Yamuna, whose slight shift in course affects the fortunes of many on both the sides. This time, the clash erupted on Baghpat-Panipat border after the river’s route change created confusion over the ownership of lands. At least four farmers were injured in the clash on Monday evening in Baghpat’s Tanda village, police said. It is alleged that some farmers from Panipat side attacked people of Baghpat with “sharp-edged” weapons and also took away five of them. Baghpat Police, however, denied the abduction claim and said the four men were detained by police on the other side. This is the third such clash in a month. The clash in Tanda occurred just two months after its residents staged a protest at Baghpat’s district magistrate office demanding action against Haryana farmers. Circle officer of Baraut, Alok Singh, said, “The clash involved men from both the sides. While four were taken away by Haryana Police, a couple of Haryana farmers were arrested by UP Police also. One was admitted to hospital while others received minor injuries.”Meanwhile, a case against 50 Haryana farmers-- 25 named and rest unidentified-- has been registered on the basis of a complaint filed by a Baghpat farmer, Yunus.Such fights are an annual affair, especially after the monsoon is over and the river recedes leaving a changed route. A large stretch of the border is marked by the river. On November 18, a clash occurred on the agricultural fields of Niwada village along the border. According to sources, farmers from Haryana barged into UP fields on tractors and destroyed a large area of standing crops.In another confrontation, at least 12 farmers in Sonipat’s Jajal village were injured in an alleged attack by farmers from UP.Clashes over the ownership of lands regularly take place in six districts of western Uttar Pradesh -- Shamli, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr and Aligarh.These confrontations recently forced the governments on both the states to take steps towards resolving the vexed issue. But, since the pandemic struck, there has been little progress on the front, a senior official said.“Several meetings were held to resolve the border issue. In fact, chief ministers of both the states (Haryana and UP) have discussed the matter. Later, chief secretaries of the states also met. Both states are determined to find a concrete solution. But the pandemic is delaying the matter. DMs of border districts of both the states are also in contact to curb these frequent clashes,” said divisional commissioner of Meerut Anita Meshram.Meshram had also called a meeting of officials of all border districts in October last year and asked them to prepare an action plan involving Survey of India officials. There was a proposal to set up pillars to mark borders. The next meeting was held in January this year.At present, 132 villages of five districts of UP and 102 villages of six districts of Haryana are located on the border of the state and have land ownership issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-haryana-farmers-clash-with-swords-many-injured-5-taken-hostage/articleshow/79516680.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||Legislative council polls: Pilibhit records brisk 74.6% voting||Pilibhit: A brisk 74.6% voting was recorded in Pilibhit for biennial legislative council polls on Tuesday. Pilibhit is teacher's seat. The district administration had made comprehensive arrangements of security. As many as seven polling booths at four polling stations in five tehsil circles had been set up while five zonal and four sector magistrates had been deployed for constant monitoring of the polling.The polling for electing 11 members of UP legislative council including five from graduate constituencies and six from teachers’ constituencies had been held in 72 districts of the state.A total of 15 candidates were in the fray for Bareilly-Moradabad teachers’ constituency which included Dr Hari Singh Dillon on the candidature of BJP, Sanjay Kumar Mishra, the defending MLC from Samajwadi Party, Dr Mehandi Hassan from Congress. The BSP had not fielded any candidate at this seat.The polling began at 8am and concluded at 5pm with a total of 1,967 voters that included 607 women. One presiding officer, three polling officers and a micro observer had been deployed at each polling booth.Of the total seven polling booths two each, one for urban and another for rural voters, had been set up in Pilibhit sadar, Bisalpur and Puranpur tehsil areas while Amaria tehsil managed the polling with a single booth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/legislative-council-polls-pilibhit-records-brisk-74-6-voting/articleshow/79517008.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Plot near Iskcon Circle may hit record price||AHMEDABAD: In a landmark deal, believed to have broken all previous records, two city-based developers joined hands to buy a land parcel on SG Road measuring 5,000 square yards for a cost pegged to be as high as Rs 150 crore. Going by the deal size, the price for this prime piece of land in the city’s posh locality near Iskcon Circle works out at Rs 3 lakh per sq yard, the highest rate for land in the city so far, said real estate sources aware of the development. The deal comes at a time when the real estate market is seeing a serious downturn due to the Covid-19 situation with lot of inventory piled up. “This deal will go on to prove that there is still demand for such high-end projects,” said a real estate developer. The state’s coffers are likely to swell by at least Rs 9 crore (6% stamp duty) the day the land deal is inked at the sub-registrar’s office. According to real estate sources, this could be the costliest land deal in the city if it is struck at Rs 3 lakh per square yard. The current land prices around Iscon circle are about Rs 2.25 lakh per square yard. “For land that is bought for Rs 60,000-70,000 per square yard, if one were to build a high rise residential building, the selling cost of a unit will be about Rs 35,000-45,000 per square yard. In this case, the selling cost will work out much higher,” said a real estate expert. The construction cost for such a large project will be about Rs 25,000 per square yard, he added. To make it viable, the cost of a flat will have to be around Rs 4-5 crore, he added. While the purpose of the project is not clear, for commercial purposes rentals are quite low at present which could hamper its viability. Land deals of Rs 2 to 2.5 lakh per square yard have created a buzz in the market for the last year, but most were called off later. The latest deal is something the Ahmedabad real estate market has seen after a long time as land transactions have dried up ever as the Covid-19 pandemic slowed down the real estate market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plot-near-iskcon-circle-may-hit-record-price/articleshow/79518285.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Allahabad||Revamp hostels, ensure good facilities for students: AU VC||Prayagraj: The newly-appointed vice-chancellor of Allahabad University (AU), Prof Sangita Srivastava instructed the authorities to revamp the hostels for boys and girls to improve their living conditions. “We want to assure our students that making their hostels a better place to stay would be my foremost priority. They would be provided with the best amenities and their hostels would be revamped so that they feel comfortable in their stay away from home,” Prof Srivastava said on Tuesday, a day after taking charge. “I have told the officers that I would be making a surprise inspection of hostels in the coming days,” she added. The first woman vice-chancellor of the 133year-old university said students should have knowledge of at least four languages. Every student should know English and Sanskrit language, while teaching of German and French will also be incorporated, Prof Srivastava said. Quoting poet Pankaj Prasoon’s poem titled, ‘Ladkiyaan badi ladaaka hoti hain’ she said, “Before becoming the vice-chancellor, I had fought and set up a separate department at AU. Now, that fate has given me this opportunity to head this revered institution, I will fight to restore the glory of this university for which efforts of all teachers will be required.” She also instructed the authorities to revamp the guest house on the campus. “I have instructed officials to revamp the university guest house and ensure best facilities and security for our guests,” she said. The new VC is likely to make a major reshuffle in the administration in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/revamp-hostels-ensure-good-facilities-for-students-au-vc/articleshow/79519611.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||GTU postpones its college exams||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Technological University (GTU), the state’s largest university, has decided to postpone the winter 2020 exams indefinitely due to the Covid-19 situation in the state. “At our meeting today, attended by deans and associate deans, it was unanimously decided to postpone the coming winter 2020 exams. Whenever the new timetable is finalized, it will be put on the GTU website 10 days in advance,” said Naveen Sheth, the vice-chancellor of GTU. He said colleges will resume studies in online mode for the next semester to protect the interests of students. The Association of Gujarat Engineering and Technological Diploma Colleges had earlier this week demanded that GTU to reconsider their decision to hold the winter examination in pen and paper format. There are 550 colleges affiliated to GTU. As many as two lakh students were expected to take the exams, included candidates taking remedial exams. In a letter to the GTU vice-chancellor, the association said GTU should consider holding the exams online. The state government recently revoked its order for re-opening schools and colleges from November due to the Covid-19 situation. Schools and colleges have been closed in the state for more than eight months now. GTU was the first university to hold online annual exams for colleges earlier this year. As many as 460 students from 153 foreign countries and 17 states had registered for the online exams held from September 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-postpones-its-college-exams/articleshow/79518289.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Allahabad||Heritage trees to be tagged soon||Prayagraj: In a first-of-its-kind initiative in UP, some of the old trees in the Sangam city would soon bear the tag of ‘heritage trees’. The state government had directed all the district administrations to compile an exhaustive list of trees that are more than 100-year-old and have religious, mythological or historical connect. Once the list was sent to the state government by the respective districts, the entries were verified at the local level by experts before the final decision would be made to tag heritage trees. The initiative is aimed to help identify, locate and mark revered trees that have stood the test of time and so long preserved only in folklores. A special team visited Prayagraj few months back and made a list of over 80 trees which fit into the criteria after consultation with the divisional forest officer (DFO) and other officials of the forest department. “The government has selected 27 species of trees that can be termed as heritage tree, wherein not only the age of the tree but its historical, heritage or religious importance is also considered,” said DFO Prayagraj, YP Shukla. It could be that a tree is around 60-70 years old but could be termed as heritage because of its historical relevance, he added. The DFO said following the submission of the list of over 80 trees in the district, head of the department of zoology, Amita Kanojia visited Prayagraj on Sunday and visited two important sites, one being the Akbar Fort and second being the famous old tree on the Jhunsi side of river Ganga. The huge tree, called ‘Baba Shaikh Ped’ or ‘Hathi ka Pawn’, on the Jhusi side of Ganga hogged the limelight in 2016, when a caller from Mahoba raised the pitiable condition of the tree during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s monthly radio address ‘Mann ki Baat’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/heritage-trees-to-be-tagged-soon/articleshow/79519695.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||Clerics demand demolished Sufi shrine be rebuilt, officials claim it was an encroachment||Rampur: The city’s Ulamas (Islamic scholars) and Sajjada Nashins (hereditary custodians of Sufi shrines) gathered at the Jama Masjid on Tuesday under the leadership of its Imam, Mufti Mehboob Ali, and condemned the demolition of the centuries-old shrine of Hazrat Zanzeer Shah Baba inside Rampur fort by the authorities. The gathering of Islamic scholars and cleric called the act of the authorities “regrettable” and “painful” for the entire Muslim community. A press release issued by the Jama Masjid committee also stated that during the demolition, the sacred Quran was also profaned. The committee gave the authorities three days’ time to reconstruct the shrine and announced they will reconvene at the same spot on December 5 to decide future course of action. In a late night operation on Sunday, district administration and local police removed the Sufi shrine located on a lawn in the city fort for “causing obstruction to morning walkers” and for illegally encroaching upon the area”. According to Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh, the shrine was lying unattended for years without any owner, caretaker or religious activity around it. But local Sufi scholars and clerics claim it is centuries old and has historical significance. Speaking with TOI, the DM said, “The demolished shrine won’t be reconstructed, as it was an encroachment. No evidence supporting the claim that the shrine was centuries-old has been found.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/clerics-demand-demolished-sufi-shrine-be-rebuilt-officials-claim-it-was-an-encroachment/articleshow/79517042.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Winters getting warmer on city’s outskirts: Study||Ahmedabad: Many Amdavadis retire to farmhouses in winters to enjoy the quiet chill. But the outskirts of Ahmedabad are getting warmer than municipal areas at nights and even in winter. This revelation was made after a seven-year study by IIT- Kharagpur of the mean Surface Urban Heat Island Intensity (SUHII) temperatures for 44 cities across the country. The study covered the period from 2000 to 2017. It even recorded an exception for Ahmedabad: rural temperatures during monsoons were higher than urban temperatures by 2.46°C. In the seven years, the highest night-time SUHII difference across all seasons was 2.5°C, with urban areas being warmer than rural areas in Ahmedabad and Ludhiana in 2014. The lowest was in Srinagar and Guwahati at 0.3°C in the same year. “The Urban Heat Island (UHI) phenomena is among the major consequences of the alteration of temperature due to human activities,” study says. The authors add: “Therefore, this study shall aid planning and management of urban areas by giving insights about the effects of nature and intensity of development, land cover and land-use mix and the structure of cities on SUHII.” The report authors are IIT- Kharagpur’s Sarath Raj, Arun Chakraborty, and Jayanarayanan Kuttippurath of the CORAL division; and Saikat Paul of the department of architecture and regional planning. The study says SUHII temperatures showed a negative trend — rural areas being hotter than urban areas — with vanishing vegetation in cities such as Chandigarh and Ahmedabad, by 0.27°C and 0.10°C in a decade respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/winters-getting-warmer-on-citys-outskirts-study/articleshow/79518304.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Traffic diversion on Sadar Residency flyover||Nagpur: To pave the way for smooth beautification of Residency Road flyover work, the Nagpur city traffic police has allowed to divert the traffic on the busy stretch. The notification issued by deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sarang Awad will remain applicable for 30 days, starting from Wednesday to January 1, 2021. Vehicular movement on left side of the road from Mankapur to Liberty Talkies road will be diverted from time to time to carry out the beautification work, stated the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traffic-diversion-on-sadar-residency-flyover/articleshow/79536590.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways extends run of 18 more special trains till December 31||PATNA: Railways has extended the running of at least 18 more special trains till December 31. Railways had already extended the running of 80 pairs of special trains originating from or passing through Bihar to clear the post-festive season passengers rush. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said rail services between Patna and Ranchi have been restored. The services were disrupted in the lockdown period. He said the Patna-Ranchi special (02363/02364) will run till December 31. Besides, Purnea-Hatia special (08625/08626), Islampur-Hatia special (08623/08624), Danapur-Tata special (08183/08184) and Chhapra-Tata (08181/08182) trains will now run till December 30, he said. Railways has also extended the weekly run of Darbhanga-Jallandar special (05251/05252), Saharsa-Amritsar special (05331/05332), Saharsa-Anand Vihar special (05529/05530), Darbhanga-Pune special (01033/01034) and Barauni-Pune special (02143/02144) till December 29 and 30 respectively, Kumar said, adding that the New Jalpaiguri-Udaipur weekly special (09601/09602), Barauni-Ernakulum special (02521/02522) and Lokmanya Tilak-Jaynagar special (01061/01062) have also been extended till December 31. He said the Sitamarhi-Anand Vihar special (04005/04006), Jaynagar-Amritsar special (04649/04650, 04673/04674), Bapudham Motihari-Amritsar special (04009/04010) and New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar special (0207/0208) will run till December 31. Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association secretary Shoaib Quraishi has demanded immediate restoration of MEMU passenger train (63231/63232) between Patna and Buxar to benefit local commuters and office-goers on this particular route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-extends-run-of-18-more-spl-trains-till-dec-31/articleshow/79517064.cms||Kumod Verma
December 2, 2020||Pune||Senior citizen waylaid, robbed by trio in Nigdi||Pune: Three men riding a motorcycle robbed an elderly man at gunpoint on Pavle bridge in Nigdi on Sunday. The incident happened late at night when 70-year-old Gurumukhdas Chawla — a garment shop owner — was on his way back home Pimpri on his two-wheeler. The suspects threatened him with a revolver and snatched a bag containing Rs35,000 [his day’s earnings] and a box of garments worth Rs4,000. Sub-inspector of the Nigdi police Mahendra Aher said Chawla owns a ready-made garments shop on Dehu Road. When he reached the bridge, the trio intercepted his moped. “Chawla told us that one of them brandished a firearm and snatched his bag,” Aher said. The trio sped towards Pune via a grade separator. “There are no CCTVs on the bridge or nearby. Chawla too was unable to note down the motorcycle’s registration number,” Aher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senior-citizen-waylaid-robbed-by-trio-in-nigdi/articleshow/79518331.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||How the suburbs grew faster||Ahmedabad: After two decades, the rate of the population growth in Ahmedabad’s urban agglomeration has outpaced that of its municipal limits in 2019, according to an Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) report. The population of the city and it’s outskirts that are under the AUDA, is 83 lakh, according to this report which was shared with the World Bank Group. By 2031, the Ahmedabad the urban agglomeration is expected to have 16.6 lakh people outside the municipal jurisdiction. This increase in population is also expected to be accompanied by the spatial expansion of Ahmedabad, the report says. Between 2000 and 2013, while Ahmedabad’s population grew by 2.1 per cent on average annually, its outskirts expanded at a slower pace of 1.9 per cent a year (Angel et al. 2012). AUDA administers an area of 1,900 square kilometres, about a quarter of which is under AMC municipal jurisdiction. Since 2010, with the announcement of the Sardar Patel Ring Road, the city has expanded along this metropolitan beltway. Why then is the city growing on its periphery? The reason according to the AUDA report lies in the 1965 development plan of Ahmedabad, where a 240-metre green belt was proposed on private agricultural land covering 8.4 square kilometres. The main objective of the green belt was to restrict urban sprawl and regulate and balance open versus built development. It was also meant to protect the natural and semi-natural environment and act as a sink for urban pollution. Till 1975 , Ahmedabad was spread over 93 sq km. Today its area including the urban agglomerate (including AUDA areas) covers 1,900 sq km, of which the green belt covers 9 per cent. “Land owners in the green belt zone resisted the policy and moved the Supreme Court which ordered that land holdings be apportioned between land owners and the AMC in the ratio of 60 to 40,” said a senior AUDA official. In the late 1970s, the Urban Land Ceiling Act led to an artificial increase in land prices in city limits while in the 1980s and 1990s urban clusters started appearing outside the city limits leading to unregulated and haphazard development in new areas, such as the western villages of Bopal and Ambli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/how-the-suburbs-grew-faster/articleshow/79518327.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Passengers elated as more trains resume||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced restoration of some more key trains including two daily trains to Mumbai via Aurangabad. As per official release, Nanded-Mumbai-Nanded Rajya Rani special train is scheduled to start from December 3, whereas Secunderabad-Mumbai-Secuderabad Devgiri special train is slated to commence journey from December 5. The Nanded-Mumbai Rajya Rani special train (07611) will leave from Nanded at 10pm and expected to reach the state capital the next day by 10.07 am. In return journey, the train (07612) will depart from Mumbai at 6.45 pm and expected to reach Nanded by 7.20 am on the next day. The train will halt at Manmad, Aurangabad, Jalna and Parbhani stations in both the directions. The Secunderabad-Mumbai Devgiri (07058) will leave from Secunderabad at 1.25pm and expected to reach the final destination by 7.10am next day. In the return direction, the train (07057) will leave from Mumbai at 9.30pm and will reach Secunderabad at 2.40pm on the next day. The special train will cover Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani and Nanded stations in both directions. Among other trains, SCR has commenced Secunderabad-Manmad Ajanta special from Tuesday. It has also announced special run of Hyderabad-Jaipur festival special train between December 2 and December 28 on every Monday and Wednesday and on Wednesday and Friday during the return journey. The Poorna-Patna is another festival special train which will run from SCR on every Friday between December 4 and December 25 and on every Sunday in the return journey. SCR public relations officer for Nanded division Rajesh Shinde said these trains will run as special trains and will be fully reserved due to the concerns associated with outbreak of Covid-19. Railway activist Omprakash Varma said improved rail connectivity was a must as the Covid 19 related restrictions are getting eased out. “The safety from Covid while traveling is a joint responsibility of the passengers and the railway administration,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/passengers-elated-as-more-trains-resume/articleshow/79517053.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Pune experiences warmest December 1 morning in a decade||PUNE: The city made its warmest start to December on Tuesday in over a decade under the impact of the warm and partially moist easterly wind, registering the highest minimum temperature of December 1 since 2009. Shivajinagar recorded a minimum temperature of 18.2°C on Tuesday. It was 18.5°C in Pashan and 19°C in Lohegaon. A comparison of the minimum temperature on Tuesday in Shivajinagar with the minimums recorded on the first day of this month during the last decade revealed that this December 1 was the warmest since 2009. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI that the above-normal minimum temperatures were a result of constant easterly wind flow in the region, which were warm and partially moist. “The brewing storms over the Indian region, including very severe cyclonic storm Nivar over the southwest Bay of Bengal around November 25, also played a role. Another system has formed currently — a deep depression over the southwest and the adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal. The system is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by Tuesday night and move west-northwestward.” Kashyapi said the easterly wind regime predominating parts of Maharashtra had been bringing in slight moisture from these systems, causing up to 4 okta clouding (partly cloudy to mainly clear skies) in some parts even during the night time. “Cold northerly winds are thus not getting a chance to come to parts of Maharashtra, including Pune. Even after the brewing cyclonic storm makes a landfall, moisture is expected to keep coming into parts of Maharashtra. It means we do not expect minimum temperatures to change much at least during the next couple days in Pune,” he said. Kashyapi said there was a possibility of another system forming over the Bay of Bengal during the upcoming week, slightly stronger than the current one. It might cause further moisture incursion over parts of Maharashtra, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivajinagar-records-minimum-temperature-of-18-2c-highest-on-december-1-in-a-decade/articleshow/79518319.cms||Neha Madaan
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||12,000 paramedical seats available after second round||Ahmedabad: With permission accorded to some 44 colleges, there are some 12,000 seats available in paramedical courses such as physiotherapy and nursing, in the second round of centralized admissions through the admissions committee. Committee officials said the new colleges were not included in the first round of admissions because they did not have approval. By the end of the first round of admission, these colleges received approval and with it 2,000 more seats were available for the second round. Moreover, after the first round of admissions, more than 9,000 seats that remained vacant. The choice-filling exercise will begin on Wednesday. Students will be allocated colleges on December 6. Students can confirm their admission by paying the fees within in a week after that. The admissions committee has placed the list of newly approved colleges on its website for the students to pick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/12000-paramedical-seats-available-after-second-round/articleshow/79518347.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Multiple opinions, multiple confusions for new Covid patients||Nagpur: It seems a second opinion is not good enough as far as coronavirus infection is concerned. There is also no dearth of people who are not only ready to give their ‘valuable advice’ but also suggest the treatment, even as doctors keep encountering newer presentation of the virus. Newly-infected patients have been found seeking multiple opinions from not just doctors but also from recovered Covid patients and friends. This is the latest reason for delay in initiating the proper treatment and worsening of health. Dr Hema Dhoble, head of Covid unit at Suretech Hospital, Jamtha, said, “Before a patient is finally admitted, he talks to their family doctor, then someone suggests another doctor. After two opinions, a government doctor-cum-friend comes into picture. Some even talk to recovered patients if they happen to know one. Ultimately, the patient stays back at home and the condition deteriorates,” she said. Dr Dhoble added one must prefer a good pulmonologist or MD medicine and follow the treatment strictly. “People must have faith in their doctor and not resort to their own R&D. Everyone’s condition may not be same,” she said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said people must prefer practitioners of modern medicine and trust them. “I would say follow one doctor with seriousness. Delay in early diagnosis leads to complications. Medical colleges and Urban primary health centres have doctors with experience of modern medicine. We have seen even mild cases progress into moderate or severe because of time lost in seeking advice from different sources,” he said. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) medical officer Dr Ateequr Raheman Khan said a 38-year-old woman from Mangalwari zone area passed away on Monday because of this delay. The woman was admitted to GMCH. “As soon as cough, cold or fever is seen, a person must get tested. NMC also provides all basic medicines free of cost at UPHC. I suggest people must prefer UPHC or GMCs because here ICMR guidelines on prescribing medicines is followed. Also, it is important to follow only one doctor for Covid and not change them frequently,” he said. “Let the doctor decide who should be admitted or home isolated instead of discussing mutually,” said consultant cardiologist at Alexis Dr Shoeb Nadeem. He added early treatment was the key. “It saves from complications. Many times we have seen the late stage patient kept delaying seeing a doctor. This also increases mortality chances. Expert doctor examination is must. It is wrong to depend on suggestions from recovered patients or ill-equipped persons. If symptoms are picked up early, patient gets cured early,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/multiple-opinions-multiple-confusions-for-new-covid-patients/articleshow/79518348.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Morphed image posted, FIR filed||Ahmedabad: A woman,19, from the Amraiwadi area of city, on Monday filed a complaint with cyber police alleging that an unidentified person made her fake Instagram profile and uploaded her obscene pictures. In her FIR with cyber police, the woman, who is preparing for NEET, said that her friend had told her on June 26 that someone had created an Instagram account in which her obscene pictures were uploaded. The woman had reported about the fake Instagram account which was closed later. But after a few days, someone had created another account and when the woman had sent message on that account, the accused – creator of the fake profile, responded to the woman that he or she will keep creating fake accounts and uploading her obscene pictures to defame her. She had again reported about the second Instagram account which was also closed. Later, the accused had created third account and again uploaded her pictures with obscene messages and comments on it. When the complainant sent messages on this account, the accused abused her and passed indecent comments on her. The accused had also created a fake Facebook profile of the woman and sent lewd messages to various people. Finally, she approached cyber police and filed a complaint under information technology act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/morphed-image-posted-fir-filed/articleshow/79518356.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Infy to start work for its first Bengal IT hub in July: Mamata||Kolkata: IT giant Infosys would commence work at Rajarhat New Town from July 2021 for its maiden project in the state and will complete it in two years, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Tuesday. “I had sent them a letter about the project and Infosys has replied. It will get final approval for the project this month only,” Banerjee said, adding that Wipro, too, has committed to invest for a second campus in the state. At the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Bengal Silicon Valley Hub by the chief minister on August 13, 2018, Infosys had officially announced the commencement of work on its new software development centre in Kolkata, but it did not disclose any date. The IT bellwether had an initial plan of Rs 100 crore investment in the 5,25,000-sq ft New Town hub with the creation of around 1,000 engineering jobs. Both Wipro and Infosys have been offered the ‘free-hold’ status for the land parcel in Rajarhat. The IT duo was given 50 acres each in New Town. Besides these two mega projects, Banerjee added that cabinet has approved an additional 100 acres for Silicon Hub in the second phase. “Now, there are 100 acres for the state silicon hub already and the major part of the land parcel has already been booked. We have got 20 more applications for land in the hub,” she said while chairing a cabinet meeting on Tuesday. Last year, the CM had announced that IT heavyweight Wipro was all set to begin work for its second campus in the state following Infosys’s 2017 decision to invest here. Wipro’s total investment for its 10,000-employee-strong new campus was pegged at Rs 500 crore. Wipro, unlike Infosys, had set up its first campus in Salt Lake Sector V in 2005-06 during the Left Front regime. Both Infosys and Wipro have been sitting on their allotted plots in Rajarhat-New Town for around a decade, for which they had paid Rs 75 crore each. The state cabinet had allowed the IT giants to use 49% of the plot for whatever purpose it deemed fit after using the remaining 51% for its core IT operations. The sop was the biggest till date given to an IT-sector investor in Bengal. In response to the demand for an SEZ tag for their Rajarhat land, the Bengal CM had been categorically telling IT bigwigs that her government would offer “everything else but an SEZ status” to any industrial unit interested in Bengal. “The company got the land on November 18, 2011, for IT-related work on 75% of the land on 99 years’ renewable lease,” state higher education minister Partha Chatterjee had said in 2017. Salil Parekh, CEO and MD, Infosys, had said: “I would like to thank CM Mamata Banerjee for giving Infosys a unique opportunity to be a part of this prestigious project, and further strengthen our presence across the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/infy-to-start-work-for-its-first-bengal-it-hub-in-july-mamata/articleshow/79518345.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||FDA fines 43 sweet shops of Rs 37k||Pune: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) fined 43 sweet shops of Rs37,000 over poor food quality in the Pune (Zone 3) and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits during the festive season in November. FDA officials said they had also seized 22kg of raw substandard food material, which was to be used in the sweets. Sampatrao Desai, assistant commissioner of FDA, Pune, said complaints regarding the manufacturing, sale and distribution of adulterated food items go up during the festive season due to the high demand for edible items. He said they inspected 13 sweet shops in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits alone and collected samples of oil, milk, and the sweets that were to be used in the final product. After they found the quality to be substandard and unhygienic, they were fined Rs15,000. As many as eight shops have been served notices as well. Desai said, “The FSSAI guidelines on September 25 had suggested that sweet shops clearly display the “Best before date” on non-packaged or loose sweets with the ones in a container or on tray holdings from October 1.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fda-fines-43-sweet-shops-of-rs-37k/articleshow/79518337.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh has the 5th highest death rate in 2 lakh+ group||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh which had conducted least number of tests among the 17 states where more than 2 lakh positive Covid-19 cases have been reported so far has the 5th highest death rate among those states. The recovery percentage –number of people recovering out of every 100 positive cases – is worse than 10 of these 17 states. Though in terms of conducting tests against per million of population, Madhya Pradesh had remained worst among the states reporting higher number of cases and it has not improved compared to the improvement in other states. But the parameters where state was on a good footing have also started deteriorating. Like in the month of November, the recovery rate has deteriorated by 1% instead of improving, on October 31, the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in state was 93.3% it decreased to 92.3% on November 30. The growth of new Covid-19 cases in state has speeded up in the past one month. The number of Covid-19 cases grew by close to 20% in the past one month of November. Till October 31, a total of 1,72,082 Covid-19 positive cases were reported and till November 30, it increased by 19.78% or 36,046 cases to 2,06,128. This is the 7th highest growth in number of Covid-19 cases in the country reported by any state in the month of November. Sources said that declining, recovery rate and increasing number of cases in a scenario where less tests are being done, may make the situation even worse in the state. More over the cumulative positivity rate of Covid-19 in the state is also around 5.5% with majority of days in the month of November positivity rate remaining above 5%. Lesser tests despite this high positivity rate, coupled with growth in infection – first due to bye-elections and then festivals and now marriage season, may lead to further increase in Covid-19 cases in the state, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-testing-least-among-states-with-2l-cases/articleshow/79517069.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 2, 2020||Chennai||Weaving a tale around the south Indian sari||CHENNAI: The sari has been closely linked to the cultural life of women since the time of the Indus Valley Civilisation (2800BC-1800BC). Now, to revive its importance, a month-long exhibition displaying traditional handloom saris worn during different family functions will be held at DakshinaChitra’s Varija Gallery at Muttukadu from December 5. The event will highlight saris from the 1950s. “Sari plays a major role in the life of a woman, even from the time she attains puberty. Women choose to wear saris based on functions. We have been maintaining a collection of silk saris from the 1950s worn by women during different family functions. The idea is to create awareness among people about the role being played by sari as an attire,” said Gita Hudson, artist-coordinator of DakshnaChitra Museum who is organizing the event. Sari is inseparable from a woman throughout her life. “A girl gets her first sari when she attains puberty. Her journey with various saris begins here. It follows her in her engagement, marriage, delivery, 60th birthday and death. The lifecycle of a woman is interwoven with the saris she wears. People can come and watch the rich tradition of saris in our vibrant collection,” she said. Each colour, according to Gita, has a meaning. “South Indian saris are distinguished by their rich, saturated, bright colours like deep red, green, navy, purple and bright blue, orange and turmeric. This is another fascinating tradition that we are missing today,” said Gita. The month-long event is not meant only for the display of silk saris. There are saris worn by women daily. Some are meant for special occasions. But for a woman, saris she can wear daily are important. To keep this in mind, a section will showcase the saris that were won by women daily. “A weaving journey: The story of the South Indian Sari” will showcase at least 250 saris, most of them more than 50 years old. Apart from creating awareness among people about the role played by saris, the organisers want to highlight the rich tradition of weaving in the south. “India has the richest weaving tradition in the world. We have highly skilled weavers across the south. If we don’t recognise them, then the art of weaving will die. The exhibition is also a tribute to their artistry,” said Gita. Events such as block printing activities, talks, ramp walks, a sari photo booth and a book exhibition are planned as part of the exhibition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/weaving-a-tale-around-the-south-indian-sari/articleshow/79518358.cms||M T Saju
December 2, 2020||Pune||PMPML’s airport buses ride high on general passengers||Pune: The special airport bus service of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), launched a little over a month ago, has witnessed an increase in passenger traffic even as flyers to and from the Pune airport are not using them frequently. "The passenger traffic on airport buses has gone up with the average passenger load now around 12 per cent. However, it is not that more number of flyers are using them. With the buses going to different areas and having special stops near IT parks, hotels, hospitals etc, the general public are using the buses more," a PMPML official told TOI. The transport body had launched a total of around 35 air-conditioned electric buses on five routes connecting the airport on October 24. "The passenger traffic on the buses earlier was less than 5 per cent. Though some passengers from the airport are taking our buses, the response has not been very encouraging. One reason for the same is that the number of flights is presently far less than what it was during pre-Covid times. However, it is surprising that the general public have filled that gap to an extent by traveling on these buses. Of late, we are earning a revenue of around Rs42,000 per day from these buses. When the service was launched, the revenue was not even Rs 20,000," the official said. The PMPML had slashed the fares of these buses last month to attract more passengers. "The lowering of the fares might have been attractive for the general public. However, the fact remains that the PMPML has launched the service exclusively for airport travel. It is important that passengers to and from the airport use the bus service or else it will become just like a normal PMPML bus service. Our team at the airport is active and they walk up to the arrival gate informing passengers about these buses, the fares and routes," another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpmls-airport-buses-ride-high-on-general-passengers/articleshow/79518350.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Cement major to invest Rs 450 crore in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Star Cement, promoted by Century Plyboards, one of the leaders in cement sector in the northeast, will have its manufacturing footprint in Bengal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said after the cabinet meeting that the government has cleared land for Star Cement in Jalpaiguri. Later, Star Cement CEO Sanjay Kumar Gupta told TOI that he company is setting up a 2-million-tonne grinding unit in the state, which would be its first facility in the state. The cement major will get 45 acres for the project and will invest Rs 450 crore. “We shall get clinker for the Bengal plant from our facility in Meghalaya,” he added. Star Cement’s one million tonne integrated cement plant at Lumshnong (Meghalaya) is situated near raw material reserves of limestone, coal and shale gas. Star Cement currently has a manufacturing capacity of 4 million tonne, which would go up to 6 million tonne after the new facility comes up. Gupta said Bengal was a lucrative market for cement. Bengal is market for 24-25 million tonne cement, while total capacity in the state as of now is 20 million tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cement-major-to-invest-rs-450cr-in-state/articleshow/79518364.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Doctors, cops to get vaccine on priority: Maharashtra minister||AURANGABAD: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said that doctors, policemen and comorbid patients above the age of 50 years will get the Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase. “Currently five pharma companies in the country are working on the Covid-19 vaccine and the central government is in the process of issuing guidelines for carrying out the vaccination drive,” he said. “The vaccination process would be directly controlled by the state and the central governments and on priority the doctors, policemen, and patients followed by senior citizens will be given the vaccine in the first phase,” he added. The minister said that irrespective of what people say, the vaccination process would be carried out as per the step-wise guidelines issued by the central government clubbed with vaccination drive planned by the state government. Tope said that the process of compiling relevant data is under way and preparations for carrying out the first stage of vaccination have already been initiated in the state. Recently, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray stated that a dedicated task force has been formed in the state to ensure hassle free and timely distribution of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doctors-cops-to-get-vaccine-on-priority/articleshow/79517081.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 2, 2020||Agra||Kin of raped & murdered Mathura girl sit on protest against police||Agra: Alleging that police have picked up a wrong person, a mentally challenged man, for the rape and murder of an eight-year-old girl, her father and other family members on Tuesday sat on a protest in Mathura.The father said, “Police have arrested a man who is mentally challenged. However, some other persons are involved in the crime but police are not investigating in detail. They are rather harassing us by questioning us again and again.” On November 26, the girl had gone to pick up dry woods with a neighbour, but disappeared from there. Next morning, her body was found in the forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kin-of-raped-murdered-mathura-girl-sit-on-protest-against-police/articleshow/79517079.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Good response in reopened schools, claim edu officials||Nagpur: Education officials in Nagpur and Amravati divisions claim that the response to school reopening has not waned since starting on November 23. Apart from Nagpur district, schools have been given permission to start in entire Vidarbha for classes IX-XII. Though no region-wise statistics were available till the time of going to press, officials said overall situation seemed ‘promising’. Anil Pardhi, deputy director of education (Nagpur division), has been meticulously collating data from districts and charting the progress. “We are getting feedback from local education departments and it seems that attendance figures are holding steady,” said Pardhi. Tuesday’s figures for entire Vidarbha were not readily available as local officials update it in the state-level database at different times. Some districts like Wardha are always first off the block to update their status, thus providing state level officials an overview of the reopening scene. In Wardha, 64% of the eligible schools and junior colleges had reopened. Eligible institutions are those which have Std IX-XII on their campus. Primary and elementary level schools have to remain closed across Maharashtra. In Wardha, the attendance figure is 14%, with almost 5,500 students attending school on Tuesday. A senior education official from Amravati division said, “Due to polling (graduate constituency), our officials were not able to update the database. Many schools were closed as teachers were deployed in polling duty. But the local education officers have told me that attendance has in fact increased in certain schools. Probably due to parents becoming more confident about safety issues.” He added that the situation was reviewed last week by school education minister Varsha Gaikwad. “The day after reopening, we all had an online meeting with the minister. She took stock of the situation and the general feedback from everywhere was that situation seems to be normal,” said the official. Overall in Vidarbha, almost 60,000 estimated students are said to be attending school daily. In Nagpur, education officials had received consent from parents of 33,000 students for physical classroom teaching. However, authorities decided to keep schools closed till December 13. District collector Ravindra Thakare clarified that this is not to be construed as reopening from December 14. “A decision will be taken at that time after considering the local Covid-19 situation,” Thakare told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/good-response-in-reopened-schools-claim-edu-officials/articleshow/79518376.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 2, 2020||Agra||95 test Covid-19 positive on Tuesday, district tally 9,326||Agra: At least 95 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till evening on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 9,326. These include two staffers of the district hospital and a junior doctor of SN Medical College, as well as three patients who are already suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three with influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Across the district, 107 Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Tuesday. Out of the total 9,326 cases reported, 91.01% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases fell from 685 on Monday to 673 on Tuesday. Chief medical officer R C Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.65%. So far, 8,488 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city. The number of Covid-19 cases is likely to increase with a drop in temperature during winters. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly practice social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/95-test-covid-19-positive-on-tuesday-district-tally-9326/articleshow/79517095.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Chief fire officer tests Covid +ve||Ahmedabad: The chief fire officer of the city, M F Dastoor, along with deputy fire officer Mithun Mistry of the Ahmedabad fire and emergency services (AFES) tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. An AMC (Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation) officer said Dastoor and two family members— his wife and daughter — were diagnosed with Covid. The officer said Dastoor and Mistry were isolated and under treatment for the infection. The functioning of the AFES will now be looked after by additional chief fire officer Rajesh Bhatt in the absence of Dastoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/chief-fire-officer-tests-covid-ve/articleshow/79518370.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bhopal||70% Covid tests in Bhopal are RAT; patients prefer it, say officials||BHOPAL: As against the target of 50:50 testing of samples by RTPCR and rapid antigen methods, the Bhopal district administration is carrying out testing in the 70:30 ratio (70 rapid antigen and 30 RT-PCR). In the city labs, tests for confirmation of Covid-19 are being conducted not only on suspects from Bhopal district, but 10 districts of Bhopal and Ujjain divisions. In-charge of the Covid-19 testing in Bhopal, Zila Panchayat CEO, Vikas Mishra, told TOI that one major reason why rapid antigen test is being preferred is the fact that it gives instant results rather than making the suspect, the medical team and the administration wait for 24 to 36 hours for the result. “We want to start treatment of a person infected immediately before infection leads to any complications in the body. Since we get immediate results from rapid antigen tests, we can start medication of the patient right away, move him to hospital if required or put him in “home isolation”, but in RT-PCR tests, we have to wait for 24 to 36 hours,” he said. Mishra said that not only the administration, but patients themselves prefer the RAT as they, too, are anxious to know the result. “They are more anxious to know whether they are infected or not more than anyone else. They themselves insist on rapid antigen tests,” he said. Mishra further said that all the reports on accuracy or inaccuracy of rapid antigen test results doesn’t seem to be well-founded as 5% to 10% of the people who are tested by RAT and test negative are put through the RT-PCR test and results change very rarely. “Only one per cent”, he said, when asked how many of the 10% samples tested through rapid antigen method change result when put through the RT-PCR test. “We repeat tests on 5% to 10% of the samples tested negative in rapid antigen tests through RT PCR and mostly we choose elderly persons, who are more prone to the disease but the result often remains the same,” he said.  He further said that accuracy of RT-PCR tests is also estimated to be around 70%. None of the tests are 100% accurate. They all measure the “viral load”, he said.  Mishra further said that another major reason why RAT is being conducted more is because Bhopal labs have to cater to samples collected from 10 districts from Bhopal and Ujjain division and if 50% tests are conducted by RT-PCR, testing of samples of other places will be inordinately delayed. He said that now 3,500 to 4,000 tests are being conducted in Bhopal districts, which comes down to 2,000 on holidays. There has been a spurt in the cases of coronavirus indeed, but they are coming down now and officials hope to contain the spread in the next one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/negative-rat-changing-to-positive-in-rt-pcr-in-just-1-cases-admin/articleshow/79517099.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 2, 2020||Allahabad||‘Cow coats’ for cattle at shelter homes of district||Prayagraj: In a bid to save cows from the winter chill, the veterinary department has made arrangements for ‘cow coats’ for the cattle at state-run cow shelter homes of the district. The cow shelters will be covered with thick polythene curtains to save the animals from biting cold winds. The officials concerned have started making arrangements for the cow coats that will be made of jute bags and will be sufficient to keep the cows warm. It is worth mentioning that cow shelters have been made in rural areas to keep stray cattle where they are being taken care and are provided fodder. The arrangements at cow shelters are under supervision of village panchayats, and caretakers are being employed for the task. At present 113 cow shelters are functional in Prayagraj district among which 110 are temporary while three are permanent. Veterinary Department keeps a close watch on the health of cows and carries out regular medical examination and treatment of over 13000 cows lodged at these shelters. With the arrival of winters, the government has issued instructions to save the cows from biting cold, which may be harmful to their health. Officials have started the drive to cover the cow shelters with thick polythene curtains or ‘tirpal’ so that cold winds cannot enter the shelters. Jute bags will also be sewed together to make thick curtains and covers. The same jute bags will be used to make cow coats which the cows will wear to stay warm during winters. The jute bags will be provided by the district supply department. Chief veterinary officer Dr RP Rai said district supply department would take jute bags from fair price shops and provide them fir making covers and cow coats. Gram panchayats will make cow coats and will cover the cow shelters with polythene and other material through MANREGA budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cow-coats-for-cattle-at-shelter-homes-of-district/articleshow/79519760.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||One held with 190kg of sandalwood worth Rs23L||Pune: The Pune rural police intercepted a commercial vehicle early on Tuesday and recovered 190kg sandalwood worth Rs23lakh.A four-wheeler following the commercial vehicle drove away as soon as the latter was brought to a halt by a police team. "We chased the four-wheeler for some distance, but the suspects escaped," said an officer from the local crime branch of Pune Rural police.Police have arrested driver Suraj Ubale (27) of Nevasa in Ahmednagar district. "Ubale said that the sandalwood was loaded on the vehicle somewhere between Maval and Mulshi talukas. It was being transported to Madhya Pradesh after a halt in Nevasa," the officer said.Senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat received a tip-off that sandalwood was being smuggled to Ahmednagar district from Pune. Assistant inspector Prithviraj Tate, sub-divisional officer Amol Gore, police constables Dattatreya Giramkar, Mangesh Thigal and others laid a trap on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway near Shikrapur. "We chased the vehicle and forced the driver to stop," Ghanwat said.He said that when the police team checked the vehicle they found only one mattress at the back, while the rest was empty. "When we removed the mattress, we found a gap fitted with nut bolts. We found 190kg sandalwood hidden in the gap," Ghanwat said.The suspects revealed that the sandalwood was chopped and stolen recently from different parts of Mulshi and Maval talukas in Pune, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-with-190kg-of-sandalwood-worth-rs23l/articleshow/79518359.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt looks at night curfew in week before New Year||BENGALURU: Amid concerns of a possible second wave of Covid-19 infections, Karnataka government may reintroduce night curfew during the New Year week, according to a draft advisory prepared by the health department based on recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The second wave may hit Karnataka during January-February 2021, according to the advisory on recognition and containment measures. Listing recommended measures, the draft accessed by TOI reads: “Ban New Year public celebrations from December 26 to January 1 in resorts, hotels, on roads (MG road, Brigade Road in Bengaluru), etc, and impose night curfew between 8pm and 5am during this period.” Reiterating that human behaviour is known for spike in cases, the draft advisory states that any decision to introduce, adapt or lift measures should be based on situational assessment of intensity of transmission and capacity of the health system to respond. Committee: Restrict superspreader eventsPankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare, told TOI: “This is a draft report based on all recommendations made by the Technical Advisory Committee. The government will take a final decision at the ministerial level. We’ve done well to reduce the number of deaths and keep active cases under control so far and all measures are to ensure this trend continues.” The recommendations followed deliberations on the second wave at its meeting on November 24 and the advisory was prepared on November 30. Insisting on the need to enforce precautionary measures, TAC recommended restriction of mass gatherings likes fairs and festivals, religious congregations, cultural events, etc. “Strictly restrict superspreader events during December & January (winter months),” the recommendations read. “More marshals/police to fine mask violators in busy areas like markets, bus stops, commercial areas, in buses, at traffic junctions, etc. Consider introducing tough actions like simple imprisonment of a few hours for mask violators as done in Madhya Pradesh,” it added. Existing restrictions on mass gatherings will continue with 100 or less people allowed at weddings, 200 or less at public and political events and 20 and 50 at funerals and death ceremonies. TAC has asked government to delay unlocking of swimming pools, sports clubs, etc till February 2021. A TAC member said: “The recommendation to impose a temporary night curfew was made keeping in mind challenges of enforcement in preventing mass gatherings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/committee-restrict-superspreader-events/articleshow/79520955.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 2, 2020||Allahabad||Two commit suicide in city, cause being investigated||Prayagraj: Two cases of suicide were reported from Dhoomanganj police station limits in the city. A 48-year-old shopkeeper, identified as Satyendra, hanged himself at his residence in Transport Nagar area. Though the exact cause behind Satyendra’s extreme step was yet to be ascertained, police said loss in business could be one of the reasons. The shopkeeper had committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room late on Monday night. In another case, a youth identified as Dev Kumar ended life by hanging himself from the ceiling of his relative’s house in Rajruppur locality. The reason behind the suicide was yet not known. Inspector ( Dhoomanganj) said that police are probing both the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/two-commit-suicide-in-city-cause-being-investigated/articleshow/79519807.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||City cops to be stationed at Jamtara||Ahmedabad: In a bid to prevent cyber frauds from their alleged source, Jamtara, a town in Jharkhand, a team of Ahmedabad city police will be constantly stationed there to identify accused persons and to curb the menace of online fraud. An officer of city police said earlier cops from the cyber police had gone to Jamtara and busted a racket of cyber crooks after a city-based advocate was cheated of Rs 11 lakh under the ruse of updating his ‘know your customer’ (KYC) details for an e-wallet. Later, cyber police personnel busted various rackets after victims of cyber frauds approached city police. Apart from cyber police, personnel of city police ho are well versed with information technology, are geared up to be deployed at Jamtara. “We have identified personnel who will go to Jamtara and nab accused persons. The cops will also learn how these gangs operate. This way, we will be able to prevent the crime at its source,” said an officer of city police. Sources in the police said around 25 cops have been identified and more will be identified for this work. Earlier, a team of cyber police had gone to Jamtara for a week, posing as tourists in various disguises. Apart from Jamtara, police teams will also go to Girdih in Jharkhand where several gangs are also active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-cops-to-be-stationed-at-jamtara/articleshow/79518385.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Agra||4 Delhi residents injured in road mishap on Yamuna Expressway||Agra: Four persons were injured when the car they were travelling in lost control on Yamuna Expressway near milestone 68 in Mathura on Tuesday.They were heading to Agra when the mishap took place, police said.The injured were identified as Aakash, Narendra, Kamal and identity of the fourth person is yet to be known. They were all are shifted to a private hospital in Noida. All are residents of Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-delhi-residents-injured-in-road-mishap-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79517112.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Tax relief for owners of non-agricultural plots in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced a waiver scheme of interest on unpaid tax of non-agricultural land. This was decided at the cabinet meeting on Tuesday. She said that as the lockdown had started from March 23, people faced difficulties to pay ‘khajna’. She mentioned that already the government has made a norm to give relaxation to agriculture landowners and this move is an effort to give relief to non-agricultural landowners. The CM, who also heads the land and land reforms department, said that there is a norm that if tax of any particular year is unpaid then the land department charges interest to the tune of about 6.3% on the unpaid tax. “This will give them some relief during the pandemic as many have been facing financial crisis due to lockdown and failed to pay tax. We decided that till June 2021 they can pay the tax without any interest. Thus, they can pay the unpaid annual tax without any interest till June 2021.” The CM also released a book, Bangla Moder Gorbo, on Tuesday. She also announced that to help artisans and craftsmen, 617 melas and exhibitions would be organised to create 3.6 lakh jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tax-relief-for-owners-of-non-agri-plots/articleshow/79518382.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Rise in fuel prices a concern, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: After petrol prices crossed Rs90 per litre in the state, PCC chief Kamal Nath on Tuesday said that Madhya Pradesh continues to hold the highest prices of fuel in the entire country. The former chief minister took to Twitter on Tuesday and said, “The continuously rising prices of petrol and diesel are making records. While Madhya Pradesh is selling the most expensive petrol in the country, now the state has reached the third place in prices of diesel.” In a second tweet, Nath said that the common man is already distraught with the Covid-19 pandemic. “In such a situation, the government should immediately reduce taxes on petrol and diesel and provide relief to the people. But our government seems to be in deep ‘Kumbhakarna’ slumber,” he said. Nath also took a jibe at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and said, “Those who protest riding a bicycle while in the Opposition, and also travel on a bullock cart, are missing today. They are silent.” To protest the rise in fuel prices against the erstwhile Manmohan Singh government, chief minister Chouhan and his cabinet colleagues had taken a bicycle ride to the secretariat in 2008. Several times BJP leaders have taken out bullock cart rallies to protest the rise in fuel prices in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rise-in-fuel-prices-a-concern-says-nath/articleshow/79517166.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bhopal||Agri laws will benefit farmers: BJP||BHOPAL: Amid speculations of agitation against the agriculture laws in Madhya Pradesh, BJP has appealed to farmers not to be misguided by those who are holding protests in Delhi and nearby states. It also claimed that farmers across the state have started getting benefits due to the new laws. “I appeal to the farmers not to be misguided by anybody. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre has passed three laws in the interest of the farmers. These laws will strengthen our peasants and will give good results of their hard work,” said BJP state president V D Sharma. Amid farmers’ protest in Delhi, there were reports that farmers in the state may also join the agitation. BJP said that with the enactment of the new agriculture laws, the dream of farmers to turn agriculture into a ‘business of profit’, will be fulfilled soon. State agriculture minister Kamal Patel said that farmers were getting benefits from the new laws for their hard-earned produce. He said one such case came from Dhule district in Maharashtra and Prime Minister Modi had also mentioned the same. “A farmer of Dhule who was not paid his justified dues by two traders of Barwani, but he got payment soon when the district administration intervened, citing the new laws. The administration served notices to the traders who agreed to pay the dues to the farmers. Prime Minister Modi has recalled the incident during his latest ‘Mann ki Baat’ episode, which shows how effective are the new laws,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farm-laws-will-benefit-kisans-bjp/articleshow/79517149.cms||Rajendra Sharma
December 2, 2020||Agra||6 months on, no action on recovery of lands under illegal possession||Agra: Six months after marking hundreds of acres of land illegally occupied by encroachers, the administration in Agra yet to make any recovery of land from illegal possession. In Manipuri, the illegally occupied land has been taken back from land mafias. Similarly, Firozabad district administration is also taking action. After coming to power in 2017, the state government had ordered identification of land mafias in all districts. Local authorities were directed to free the occupied land of illegal encroachments. Last month, the divisional commissioner of Agra division had sought details from district administration of Agra, Mathura, Firozabad and Mainpuri regarding the action taken against the identified land mafias by November 10. According to the details received by the office of the divisional commissioner, total 23 land mafias occupying 33,800 square feet land have been identified in Agra district. So far, no land has been retained from them. In Manipuri district, 21 land mafias occupying 108.35 hectare land have been identified. Ensuring effective action following orders of the state government, Mainpuri district administration retained the entire land. In Firozabad district, 63 land mafias occupying 11.26 hectare land were identified. Out of this, 2.45 hectare land was freed from the hold of land mafias by November 10. Mathura district is yet to compile details regarding the action taken against land mafias. Divisional commissioner Anil Kumar said, “Directives have been issued for time-bound action against land mafias in the districts. In this regard, authorities have been asked to send progress report every month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/6-months-on-no-action-on-recovery-of-lands-under-illegal-possession/articleshow/79517164.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Latif gang member held||Ahmedabad: A convict in the 1992 Radhika Gymkhana massacre case and an aide of slain gangster Abdul Latif Shaikh was held by city crime branch personnel from the Aman Chowk area in Rakhial on Monday. He had jumped parole around five months ago. The convict, Tajammul Hasan Ansari, a resident of the Gujarat Housing Board colonay at Aman Chowk, was released from Sabarmati Central Jail on January 13 for a month. As his sister and nephew died, he got his parole extended to June 15. He then jumped the parole term and fled. A crime branch team was tasked with nabbing him and he was caught near his house on Monday and sent to jail. Ansari was sentenced to a life term along with seven others in the Radhika Gymkhana case in 2002, where nine people were killed in a shootout led by Latif inside the gambling den.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/latif-gang-member-held/articleshow/79518393.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Allahabad||37.59% polling in Allahabad-Jhansi graduate constituency election||Prayagraj: Around 37.59% of total 63,729 voters cast their vote in the Allahabad-Jhansi graduate constituency poll at 116 polling booths amidst Covid protocol in the Prayagraj district on Tuesday. Overall, the Allahabad-Jhansi graduate constituency recorded 41.10% polling. In Prayagraj district, a total of 23,954 out of 63,729 voters had cast their votes at different polling booths. The fate of 16 candidates, including nine from Prayagraj, has been locked in the ballot boxes. Officials said that elaborate security arrangements were in place at all polling booths. The polling percentage was low in the morning hours but started picking up in the afternoon hours. The polling percentage was only 3.8% till 10 am. A senior official said that the district was divided into eight zones and 24 sectors for the polls with 46 polling centres and 116 polling booths. While 22 polling centres were set up in the city limits, other blocks of the district had 24 centres — Soraon (5), Karchana (4), Bara (2), Phulpur (4), Meja (3), Handia (4) and Koraon (2) . Around 30 quick action teams were also deployed at the polling centres. Meanwhile, BJP spokesman Pawan Srivastava said the names of BJP MP from Phulpur Keshri Devi Patel and her son and ex-MLA Deepak Patel along with other family members were missing from the voters list. Srivatava said that the BJP MP along with her family members had to return disappointed after their names were found missing from the voters list. The BJP MP along with family members had reached Shankargarh block to cast vote. He also claimed that names of two BJP MLAs, Vikramajeet Maurya and Harshwardhan Bajpayee, were also missing from the voters list.  The BJP leaders have demanded a probe into the missing names. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party (SP) district spokesman Daan Bahadur Madhur alleged that a man was caught red-handed while forcing voters to cast vote in favour of the ruling party. Babadur said the man, who posed as a sanitary worker, was caught near booth number 59 at Bahadurpur block while allegedly pursuing voters to cast their votes in favour of the ruling party. The SP leaders took up the issue with the sector magistrate and other officials and the man was removed from the polling campus. Apart from 63,729 voters in Prayagraj, there were 15,755 voters in Fatehpur, 6,056 in Chitrakoot, 10,876 in Banda, 4,430 in Mahoba, 6,457 in Hamirpur, 6,289 voters in Lalitpur, 17,575 in Jalaun, 15,079 in Jhansi and 11,359 in Kaushambi in the Allahabad-Jhansi graduate constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/37-59-polling-in-allahabad-jhansi-graduate-constituency-election/articleshow/79519833.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Health card focus on ‘Duare Sarkar’ Day 1||KOLKATA: There was great enthusiasm among the people, who queued up at camps in various parts of the state to get access to government services, but most of them were keen on getting the health card — Swasthya Sathi. On Tuesday, the Bengal government launched an outreach programme — Duare Sarkar — for delivering government services on doorsteps and hearing out grievances, if any, regarding welfare schemes. The special drive will be held between December 1 and January 30, 2021 during which 20,000 camps will be organised in four phases. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said at Nabanna: “Till 3.35 pm, 1.2 lakh applications were received.” She tweeted: GOWB initiative #DuareSarkar brings govt services at people’s doorstep. Happy to see that the camps have started in full-swing. These camps will be held 4 times in 4 rounds across WB. I urge people to get their grievances redressed & avail other services at these camps.” The CM tweeted that camps would be organised at every gram panchayat, municipality and municipal corporation from 10 am to 4 pm across the state. She further tweeted: “Services corresponding to Khadya Sathi, Swasthya Sathi, caste certificates, Sikhashree, Kanyashree, Rupashree, Aikyashree, Jai Johar, Topsili Bandhu,Krishak Bandhu and 100 days work will be available along with receiving applications or grievances for other schemes.” The citizens, who visited the camps to avail of the services, mostly asked about ways to get the health card. While at Bijan Setu in Ward 68, the camp was inaugurated by minister Subrata Mukherjee, at Garfa Park in Ward 104, the scheme was launched by urban development minister Firhad Hakim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-card-focus-on-duare-sarkar-day-1/articleshow/79518390.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chennai||How Madras Port Trust became a financial anchor for Ramanujan||By the age of 23, Srinivasa Ramanujan had begun to be recognised as a genius in the Madras’s mathematical circles and was soon publishing his first paper on the properties of Bernoulli numbers. Read the entire story on TOI+ How Madras Port Trust became a financial anchor for Ramanujan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/how-madras-port-trust-became-a-financial-anchor-for-ramanujan/articleshow/79519814.cms||K R A Narasiah
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Food lovers’ group serves as lifeline||Ahmedabad: When Vipul Ajmera, his wife, their daughter, and his elderly mother tested positive for Covid during the Diwali holidays, the pressing concern was organizing meals. “We wanted a tiffin service because the weakness that comes with Covid wouldn’t have allowed us to manage everyday chores,” said Ajmera. “It was tough to find a tiffin provider during the festival. But thankfully, a neighbour learnt about a list posted by an online food lovers’ community. Our meals were sorted.” Home quarantine has left several Covid patients in a lurch. They have to fend for themselves in getting a basic requirement: food. When weakness kicks in, it is indeed difficult to cook and clean. Moreover, in isolation, patients can’t seek help. While a few entrepreneurs did begin catering food for Covid patients, getting information about their services was not easy. So an online food lovers’ community, Foodaholics in Ahmedabad, stepped in by making publicly available a spreadsheet comprising an exhaustive list of tiffin service providers for Covid patients. “Soon after the lockdown, we began getting multiple requests for tiffin services for Covid patients on the community’s social media platforms,” said Rohan Bhatt, co-founder, Foodaholics in Ahmedabad. “So we decided to collate the information on a single list and put it out in the public domain. We update the list every two-three hours after moderating the requests.” The list which started with barely seven members soon after the lockdown, now has at least 50 service providers and is being updated in real time. A number of small-time tiffin service providers not just benefitted but were able to reach out to the right people too. “We started out with a tiffin service to serve students and professionals who stay as paying guests, providing them home-cooked meals,” said Manisha Pandya, who with Nirali Pandya has been operating a service in Bopal since Navratri. “However, we were surprised to get maximum queries from Covid patients,” she said. “Ever since our contact information was placed on the list, the queries have doubled,” Manisha said. “We have been sending out about 40 packs including lunch and dinner in a day. All go to Covid patients.” All the tiffin service providers pack food in disposable containers and leave them at the doorsteps of the patients’ houses. If a society is in a containment zone, the food packs are left at the security gate to be sent to the patients’ homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/food-lovers-group-serves-as-lifeline/articleshow/79518414.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||NMC, NGOs & cops kickstart drive to make city ‘beggar-free’||Nagpur: Due to the possibility of a second Covid wave, the Nagpur municipal corporation’s (NMC) social welfare wing, police, women and child development departments along with NGOs have joined hands to make the city free of beggars. On Tuesday, the drive against the vagabonds, street dwellers and footpath encroachers, who live off begging, kicked off from Samvidhan Chowk near RBI till Nelson square. The district child protection unit (DCPU) too accompanied the police and NMC teams during the raids as a sizeable number of minors along with adults are seen begging on the roads. Five women were rounded up and a minor was rescued. The women as well as the minor were shifted to the government home meant for beggars. The beggars, seen mostly at busy traffic signals without masks, approach motorists and bikers for alms, thereby raising the risk of spreading Covid. “The number of migrants from Gujarat and Rajasthan found begging or vending on the city streets have increased post-lockdown,” said an official of DCPU who rescued four minors from such families last week. City police chief Amitesh Kumar had written to NMC commissioner Radhakrishnan B regarding the beggar menace on roads. The top cop has also started a covert mission against child trafficking rackets which have a close nexus with beggars. Under Kumar’s supervision, the social service wing of the crime branch will participate in the joint drive. “While action under the Maharashtra Police Act was initiated against five women, the joint team also removed around 50 vagabonds and beggars from roads, footpaths and under-bridges with a strict warning,” said an official attached to the drive. Last week, four minors were rescued. It’s learnt that the joint team will cover the stretch between Lokmat Square and Khapri on Wardha Road on Tuesday. After that, the other locations in the city are in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-ngos-cops-kickstart-drive-to-make-city-beggar-free/articleshow/79518405.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 2, 2020||India||Two grannies in 80s turn poster women of farm stir||BATHINDA: Two grandmothers in their 80s from farming families in Punjab —Mohinder Kaur from Bathinda district and Jangir Kaur from Barnala — are turning into poster women of the agitation against the central farm laws, earning a lot of praise on the social media as well as from the farm activists by participating in protests at different locations since September. Mohinder, who is from Fatehgarh Jandia village and whose family owns 12 acres, was trolled by actor Kangana Ranaut on Twitter recently after the former’s pictures went viral on the social media. The actor mistook Mohinder for Bilkis Bano, the 82-year-old from the anti-CAA Shaheen Bagh protest who was named by the Time magazine among the 100 most influential people in the world. Kangana’s now-deleted tweet read: “She is the same dadi who featured in Time magazine for being the most power(ful) Indian and she is available in 100 rupees. Pakistani journos have hijacked international PR for India in an embarrassing way. We need our own people to speak for us internationally.” Replying to Kangana’s tweet, Mohinder said her family had enough money. “Why will I go to protests for money? Instead, we make donations,” adds Mohinder, who had taken part in a protest along with her husband Labh Singh at Badal village in September. “Now I am eager to go to Delhi,” says Mohinder, who walks with a hunch due to old age. Mohinder says she has been farming for decades now. “Even now, I take care of vegetables and fruits grown at home. I keep going for farm protests. Nearly a month ago, I had gone for a protest at a petrol pump in Sangat village (in Bathinda district) where someone clicked the photo (which went viral),” says Mohinder, who has three daughters and a son, all of them married. The other ‘dadi’ who has been earning accolades at protests is Jangir Kaur from Kattu village in Barnala district. “I want to be with the sons of the soil who are fighting for their rights. I want the government to concede to our demands, so that we have no fear of losing our lands,” says the octogenarian who owns an acre of land. Watch 80-yr-old grandmother Mohinder Kaur turns into poster woman of farm stir||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-grannies-in-80s-turn-poster-women-of-farm-stir/articleshow/79520934.cms||Neel Kamal
December 2, 2020||Agra||UP to scrap 44-yr-old scheme that rewards interfaith marriage||AGRA: The Uttar Pradesh government is planning to withdraw a scheme that has incentivised interfaith marriage for 44 years. This comes after the UP government ordinance banning “forced” conversions. The Intercaste & Interfaith Marriage Incentive Scheme has been in place since 1976, initiated by the national integration department in Uttar Pradesh. When Uttarakhand was carved out of the state, it retained the incentive plan. But now, Uttarakhand, too, is considering withdrawal of the scheme. To avail the scheme, an interfaith couple can apply to the district magistrate within two years of marriage. After verification, the district magistrate forwards the application to the UP national integration department. “In UP, 11 interfaith couples were beneficiaries of the scheme last year and got Rs 50,000 each,” a senior government official told TOI. “This year, no amount has been released. The four applications that were filed remain pending. The scheme will be reconsidered after the (Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion) ordinance,” he added. The ordinance, cleared by governor Anandiben Patel on Saturday, penalises what are deemed to be “forced” conversions, including those by marriage. In 2017, the state government had added a caveat to the scheme — the interfaith couple could not convert after they got married, or they would lose the incentive. UP government spokesperson and minister Shrikant Sharma said, “The scheme does exist for now. I cannot comment on its continuation.” As for the backdrop — the anti-conversion ordinance — he added, “The ordinance means to stop forced conversion and punish those who hide their identity to cheat their partners.” UP chief secretary Rajendra Tiwari told TOI he could not speak about the scheme because he did not have its details before him. “The ordinance does not discourage interfaith marriage, its aim is to punish those who cheat their partners and force them to convert. Marriages are used as instruments to convert people,” he added on similar lines, referring to what has been called “love jihad” by politicians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-may-scrap-44-year-old-scheme-to-reward-interfaith-marriage/articleshow/79517206.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Cases in Nagpur cross 500 after 40 days, no deaths in 5 dists||NAGPUR: For the second day in a row, five districts of Vidarbha remained Covid death-free bringing down the day’s toll to 20 on Tuesday. Amravati division comprising five districts witnessed only four Covid deaths, two each from Amravati and Yavatmal, as Akola, Buldhana and Washim didn’t report any Covid casualty. In Nagpur division, the bulk of Covid deaths came from Nagpur (9) while Gondia and Gadchiroli didn’t report any Covid deaths. After October 22, Nagpur’s daily cases crossed the 500-mark as Vidarbha reported 1,103 cases. Health officials expressed concern over the rise in cases as testing remained around 4,500 with more than 10% found infected. In the last 10 days, the ratio has been the same. Covid deaths were also reported from Bhandara (2), Wardha (1), Chandrapur (4), Amravati (2) and Yavatmal (2) taking the toll to 6,064 in Vidarbha. The 1,103 new cases were from Bhandara (56), Wardha (30), Gondia (58), Chandrapur (167), Gadchiroli (59), Akola (27), Amravati (36), Yavatmal (37), Buldhana (100) and Washim (18) apart from Nagpur’s 515. Vidarbha now has 2,28,092 cases. The 1,121 recoveries included Nagpur (399), Bhandara (61), Wardha (67), Gondia (159), Chandrapur (72), Gadchiroli (131), Akola (119), Amravati (29), Yavatmal (51), Buldhana (22) and Washim (11) for a total of 2,09,968. Now, 11,738 are under treatment. In Nagpur, civic authorities found 66 flyers arriving without a Covid negative report. They were asked to undergo the RTPCT test. None of the flyers earlier tested was found positive on Tuesday. At the Nagpur railway station, six suspected passengers took the rapid antigen test and none was found positive. In all, 2,178 passengers arrived on Tuesday. Amravati: The district recorded two Covid deaths today to take the toll to 379. Only 36 new cases were reported as against 29 recoveries. Wardha: A 67-year-old man from Hinganghat died while new 30 patients were reported and 67 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 deaths on Tuesday. Currently there are 488 active positive patients. Chandrapur: The Covid total mounted to 20,115 with the detection of 167 new cases on Tuesday. The day also saw four deaths, taking the toll to 306. Gadchiroli: No Covid deaths were reported on Tuesday. The new case count increased by 59 while 131 recoveries were reported. The district now has 542 active cases, while total cases are 7,999. So far, 83 have succumbed to the disease while 7,374 defeated it and were declared recovered. Washim: The district didn’t report any Covid deaths on Tuesday as well. It also reported the lowest number of cases in Vidarbha (18) along while 11 patients recovered and discharged. The toll is 148. The new cases took the tally to 6,184, the discharged number rose to 5,794 while 242 are active. Buldhana: No deaths took place while 100 new cases and 22 recoveries were reported on Monday. According to the official data, the district now has 11,361 cases, 10,802 recoveries, 134 deaths and 242 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported two deaths, 56 new cases and 61 recoveries on Tuesday. The district has 952 active cases. The total caseload is 10,826 with 9,620 discharged. The death toll rose to 254. Gondia: The district witnessed one death, 159 recoveries and 58 new cases on Tuesday. The number of patients under treatment remained above the 500-mark at 651. The new positive patients took the tally to 12,500 and the death toll so far is 161 with recoveries 11,364. Akola: The district reported 27 new cases, 119 recoveries and no death on Tuesday. The case tally climbed to 9,458. So far, 293 people have died of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 8,600. Still 642 are active patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cases-in-city-cross-500-after-40-days-no-deaths-in-5-dists/articleshow/79519093.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Stir near Petrapole border holds up bus with Bangladeshi patients||KOLKATA: At least two dozen Bangladeshi patients returning home after undergoing treatment in Kolkata were held up after a porters’ union blocked Jessore Road 2 km away from the international border transit point Petrapole. The blockade was lifted after the cops intervened three and a half hours later. Apart from the bus carrying patients and their kin, hundreds of other vehicles bound for the Petrapole border were stranded during the stir. “What should have been a three-and-a-half hour journey turned into seven agonizing hours, of which we were stranded at a place called Jayantapur Bazar, around 2km from the border, for nearly three and a half hours. Many patients began to feel unwell but thankfully nothing untoward happened,” said transporter Monotosh Saha, whose bus was the vehicles held up on Jessore Road on Tuesday around 8am. The agitation was over introduction of luggage trolleys, similar to the ones in use at airport, for international passengers to ferry luggage from the point where vehicles stop just ahead of the border to the crossover point where formalities are completed on Indian side. Prior to Covid, porters used to carry the luggage from the vehicles ferrying passengers from Kolkata to the border, charging ad-hoc rates of Rs 300-500. When the border reopened about a month ago, trolleys were introduced by Indian authorities. The move was welcomed by Bangladeshis as it meant an end to haggling and harassment. But, it also meant loss of earning for men who did the portage, leading to the agitation. The sub-divisional officer rushed to the spot and coaxed the agitators to clear the road. The blockade was finally lifted at 11.30am. North 24 Parganas DM Sumit Gupta said: “When we learnt about the agitation, a police team went to the spot and removed the blockade.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stir-near-border-holds-up-bus-with-bangla-patients/articleshow/79518416.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops fired at, nab 1 more of armed robbers’ gang||PUNE: Three members of a criminal gang fired two rounds at a Pune rural police team while they were being chased in a sugarcane field at Wadale village near Phaltan in Satara district on Saturday night. On Monday, the police arrested one of the men, Pravin Pralhad Raut of Indapur, from Wadale. They are searching for the other two men, who are from Phaltan and Solapur. Raut was the sixth member of the gang to be arrested since November 25. Police said the gang was involved in 14 robberies, including the Rs18 lakh heist of ornaments on August 6 from a jewellery shop at Kapurhol near Khed-Shivapur off the Pune-Bengaluru highway. The gang members, who executed some of the robberies wearing police uniforms, had then fired at the jewellery shop when local traders made a vain bid to catch them. “A separate offence under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions under the Indian Arms Act has been registered against the three men with the Phaltan (rural) police,” senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of the rural police’s local crime branch told TOI. Police said that apart from the Kapurhol incident, the gangsters were involved in robberies at Baramati, Jejuri, Rajgad, Vadgaon Nimbalkar and Lonand (Satara), among other places. Ghanwat and his team made the first breakthrough in the Kapurhol case on November 25 when they arrested the “ring leader” Chandrakant Lokhande and his aide Shyam Mule from Jejuri following a tip-off. “Lokhande is from Phaltan while Mule is from Nira in Purandar tehsil. Their questioning led us to the arrest of Nilesh Nikalje, Akshay Khomne and Rahul Tambe. Nikalje is from Phaltan while Khomne and Tambe are from Baramati and Jeur in Purandar. The trio was arrested from Waghalwadi near Baramati,” said Ghanwat. He said, “During questioning, Nikalje, Khomne and Tambe revealed that Raut and two other gang members were hiding at Wadale. Our team, led by assistant police inspector Somnath Lande and sub-inspector Shivaji Nanaware, reached the house at Wadale where the trio was holed up. However, they slipped out into the nearby sugarcane field on seeing the police vehicles. Our team followed them but they fired two rounds before escaping to the nearby hills.” He said, “Our team conducted a search in the cane field, but failed to locate them. However, we kept an eye in the area and on Monday evening nabbed Raut. We are yet to recover the firearms used by the suspects at Wadale village and also in the robberies. We suspect the two gangsters on the run might be carrying the firearms.” Ghanwat said Raut later claimed during questioning that his two accomplices had opened fire at the police. “He also told us that the gangsters had sold most of the robbed gold and silver ornaments to different jewellery shops in and around Pune. We are in the process of recovering the ornaments and the firearms used at Wadale and in the robberies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-fired-at-nab-1-more-of-armed-robbers-gang/articleshow/79518466.cms||Gitesh Shelke
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Farmers’ outfit stages protest in Nagpur||Nagpur: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana workers on Tuesday staged demonstration in the city to express solidarity with the agitating farmers, who have resorted to massive sit-in dharna on the highways leading to the national capital to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at various border points of Delhi for the last six days to protest against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price (MSP) system and corporatize farming. Members of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana raised slogans against the laws and warned of intense agitation in Maharashtra in coming days. “The central government is not concerned about the woes of the farmers and hence, we have called for protests in Maharashtra to support the farmers agitating in Delhi,” said Ravikant Tupkar, a leader of the organization. The Centre should take cognisance of the concerns raised by farmers and or cultivators across the country. If the government fails to act, farmers from Maharashtra will take to the streets, Tupkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-outfit-stages-protest-in-nagpur/articleshow/79518424.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Phone stolen at Covid hospital||Ahmedabad: A 41-year-old woman from Kankaria on Monday filed a complaint at Maninagar police station alleging that someone had stolen her mobile phone, worth Rs 30,000, when she was admitted to a Covid-19 designated hospital near Shah-e-Alam Crossroads last month. Harsha Parmar, who is an advocate practising at the city civil court in Laldarwaja, said she got a cold and cough on October 27 and was tested for Covid at SVP Hospital. As her report returned positive, she was admitted to Jankalyan Hospital near Shah-e-Alam Crossroads which is close to her house. On October 29, she was given medicine after which she fell asleep with her phone on her pillow. When she woke up at night, she did not find the phone. She said someone had stolen her phone but as she had Covid, did not file a complaint earlier. After recovering, she approached Maninagar police and filed a complaint of theft against an unknown person. Earlier, various incidents of theft from Covid patients were reported at the Asarwa Civil Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phone-stolen-at-covid-hospital/articleshow/79518427.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Murder for cellphone: Two accused surrender in court||Coimbatore: Two of the four members of a gang that killed a youth while attempting to snatch a mobile phone from him surrendered in a court on Tuesday morning.On November 26, Vignesh, 24, a native of Theni district and his colleague Sujit from Valparai were riding on a motorcycle to their room at SIHS colony when a four-member gang waylaid them. They demanded mobile phones and cash from the two. When Vignesh refused, one of the gang members stabbed Vignesh on his neck leaving him dead. Police formed special teams and were on the lookout for the four. Meanwhile, two of the accused, Abhi Vishnu, 22, from Thatchanthottam and Singaravelan, 21, from Masakalipalayam appeared before the judicial magistrate court II and surrendered. Meanwhile, three habitual offenders wanted in connection with several theft cases were nabbed by police during a vehicle check on Tuesday.Police said they were conducting a vehicle check to nab the accused in bikes stolen from Idigarai Govindanaickenpalayam, when they intercepted a SUV. But the vehicle did not stop and began speeding away. However, police managed to stop the vehicle, which had three passengers. The three were identified as N Senthilkumar, 52, S Manikandan, 22, from Kalipalayam near Vellamadai and I Abibulla alias Mohamed from Sirumigai. The three were notorious thieves with several theft cases in Periyanaickenpalayam, Kovilpalayam, Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Coonoor, Aliyar, Coimbatore city and other places. When police questioned the trio, they found that it was Senthil Kumar, Manikandan and Mohamed who stole the bikes from at least five places in rural Coimbatore, gold coins and jewels from a house at Thanneerpandal, five sovereign gold from another house at Solakattupalayam besides stealing from few more houses. Police said that the total value of the stolen goods was more than Rs seven lakh. The trio revealed the place where some of the stolen goods were hidden. Police recovered those goods. They were produced before a judicial magistrate court and remanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/murder-for-cellphone-two-accused-surrender-in-court/articleshow/79518472.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held with pistol from ‘Rajkot’||Ahmedabad: Special Operation Group (SOG) officials of the city crime branch on Monday held three persons with a country-made pistol and six cartridges from a car in the Narol area of city. The FIR by crime branch might have been copied from an old FIR in which the city has been copied as Rajkot instead of Ahmedabad. An FIR filed with DCB (detection of crime branch) claims that the accused Salim Patel, 45, a resident of Marwadi Chawl in Shah-e-Alam, Romaan Hussain, 24, Mustafa Kasai Chawl in Shah-e-Alam and Mohsin Syed, 35, a resident of Sarkhej, had brought the weapon from a person from UP. The SOG got an input that three persons with a country-made pistol were moving in a white Eco car. When the suspected persons were spotted in the car, the cops checked them and found the weapon and cartridges. None of them had a licence. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-with-pistol-from-rajkot/articleshow/79518471.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: No show on poll date||HYDERABAD: The emotionally charged, no-holds-barred campaign of the past week was not good enough to bring laid-back Hyderabadis to polling booths and vote in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections on Tuesday. Barely 36.73% of city’s 74.6 lakh voters exercised their franchise till 5 pm. Late in the evening, the State Election Commission (SEC) said that polling percentage was 45.71% but the actual numbers would be declared only on Wednesday. These numbers kept up with the recent tradition of polling percentages not even crossing the halfway mark. The current numbers are marginally above the 45.29% polled in 2016, leaving strategists of all political parties worried over who would gain from the low numbers and who would lose out. All results will be declared on Friday. The high-octane campaign, which included roadshows by Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath for the BJP, had turned the election into must-win fight for ruling TRS. But none of the political parties went out of their way to bring electors to polling booths. Political analysts say BJP was hoping for a higher turnout, with many of the youth backing it. Although the top leadership was disappointed with the polling percentage, it is still confident of denting TRS substantially when results are declared. All the same, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay blamed the ruling TRS for bringing down the polling percentage by creating fear among the people through its statements. He demanded action against the SEC stating it did not even know symbols of political parties. Congress, on the other hand, blamed BJP, TRS and AIMIM for communalising the election atmosphere, resulting in fewer people coming out to vote. Forum for Good Governance secretary Padmanabha Reddy said if the people were angry with the TRS government, as the BJP states, why did they not come out to vote for other parties? Barring stray incidents of skirmishes between BJP and TRS members in some areas, and between AIMIM and BJP activists in other divisions, polling was largely peaceful in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-show-on-poll-date/articleshow/79520404.cms||Roushan Ali
December 2, 2020||Chennai||TN parties get into huddles to woo women electorate||In a state where women voters outnumber men by more than eight lakh, it is no wonder that political parties vie with one another to woo this section of the electorate. Women have been the traditional vote bank of the ruling AIADMK. In the absence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, the ruling party fearing lack of a charismatic figure to attract women voters has embarked on a mission to reach out to them with better representation of women in the party’s grassroots network. The party is enrolling 25 women members in each of the nearly 70,000 booths. As a result almost 17.5 lakh women will reach out the doorsteps of people to campaign for the 2021 assembly polls. The idea was mooted by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The AIADMK district secretaries have been told to put the committees in place by mid-December. "We have party booth committees and teams of ‘Ilaignar’ and ‘Ilampengal pasarai’ (young men and women’s wing) for every booth. Still, we are enrolling aspirants for the women’s committee," said AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy. Considered to be ‘micro-managers’, these new appointees have to consolidate women’s votes in their area through doorstep outreach based on the ‘guiding principles’ of the district secretaries. Erosion of the women’s vote base, the loyal vote bank since the days of MGR has led the AIADMK leadership to give a thought to such a structure with a focus on women. The party had also faced criticism for not nominating a single woman for the recently set up 11-member steering committee. This renewed attention on women is being seen across party lines. In August, the opposition DMK too made it mandatory to nominate a woman as deputy in-charge of each booth following the demand of the women’s wing. The DMK does not seem to be perturbed over the developments in the rival camp, since women are compulsorily part of the organisational structure from area to union to district units. Deputy secretary of each unit is a woman in the DMK. "We have trained and time-tested war horses and faced elections many times. Women voters back us totally," said DMK treasurer T R Baalu. DMK women’s wing secretary K Kanimozhi who started the party’s electoral campaign in Edappadi, the native place of CM, has been making sure she always keeps an eye on her core audience. On Sunday, among the people she met were members of women self-help groups in the western belt, the bastion of the AIADMK. "Women are the worst affected in the present dispensation," she said. "Finding employment is much more difficult now due to the poor economy and lack of opportunities. Self-help groups are totally sidelined by the government. The textile sector, which has a large share of women workforce, looks bleak. So, we (the DMK) don’t need to do anything, since they know their lives were better in the DMK regime. They are looking forward to change of government," the DMK leader said. The BJP takes pride that seven of its 21 office bearers in the state and district-level are women and remain the popular faces of the party. It has also made it mandatory to have one third of the Shakti Kendras, the party’s grassroots booth committees are women, to reach out to women, who are large-scale beneficiaries of central government schemes. "At least 1.1 crore Jan Dhan account holders received `500 each for three months during the pandemic. Some 65 lakh women benefitted by the free cooking gas scheme, and Tamil Nadu is the largest beneficiary of Mudra loan. Our BJP government extends free housing and toilets. Ours is a party which gives 33% representation of women in organisation structure," state BJP president L Murugan said, unveiling the party’s plan to hold constituency-wise meetings of beneficiaries to showcase achievements from next February. The TNCC’s Mahila Congress unit has been nominating more members to each booth committee of late. The unit is vested with the responsibility of holding the ambitious ‘plough rally’ in Gummidipoondi, Nilakottai and Kanyakumari in support of farmers. Observers say the parties realised that better representation of women at booth-level committees is "the need of the hour", especially for the AIADMK. "The ruling party had a traditional vote bank in women, since they were drawn to MGR and Jayalalithaa’s charisma. Jayalalithaa introduced 50% reservation in local bodies, and she even planned to introduce 33% quota to women in party. Eroding vote base is widely perceived now," said political analyst Tharasu Shyam. The election commission’s draft electoral roll released last month suggested that 33 districts recorded more women electors, except Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Kallakurichi and Kanyakumari. This is where the parties want to tap the potential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-parties-get-into-huddles-to-woo-women-electorate/articleshow/79519836.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Decentralized counselling under management quota at engineering colleges gets state nod||KOLKATA: The decentralized process for counselling and admissions under the management quota seats received the state government’s nod on Tuesday. The decision to open up the admissions was taken following three rounds of centralized counselling, even after which more than 20,000 seats were vacant of the available 34,981 in 91 government and private technology institutes in Bengal. The vacancies include 433 seats at the premier Jadavpur University (JU). Last year, 13,910 of 34,941 seats were vacant. “The West Bengal Joint Entrance Examinations Board has already completed the e-counselling and allotment process and has generated the allotment, admission and vacancy status reports for 2020-21. While a reasonable number of seats in such professional technical courses are lying vacant, the state government has decided to allow all the participating institutions for the admission of students through de-centralized counselling and allotment process in strict compliance with the norms and guidelines” read the circular sent to the stakeholders. All the participating colleges will now publish a notification on their respective websites seeking applications from candidates — with ‘clear guidelines’, the application deadline and method of application. All the participating candidates must be domiciled in West Bengal holding a valid merit rank. “The de-centralized process should be completed within December 15. We expect the technology colleges to make up at least 30% to 40% of the vacancies and take the occupancy level up to 50% at least. It is in keeping parity with the national scenario,” said a senior higher education department official. “The empty seats are now likely to find takers. Students holding a valid rank card can apply to study in the streams of their choice at a college where they may have dreamt to find a seat,” said Partha Pratim Biswas, a teacher at the construction engineering department at JU. But he added that this will lead to “dilution” as many candidates with lower ranks will now take admissions in the departments, which were otherwise out of bounds for them. “Usually, candidates try to individually attempt to register for the decentralized counselling at most of the institutes where they may have a better chance to find an in-demand subject. If the decentralized counselling is held in different institutes on the same day, and if the system is not online, it is difficult for the candidates to attend the sessions in each college,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/decentralized-counselling-under-mgmt-quota-at-engg-colleges-gets-state-nod/articleshow/79518420.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||New Majerhat bridge set to open tomorrow; commuters hope for end to 2-year travel trauma||KOLKATA: Lakhs of residents living in Behala and New Alipore, for whom commuting to the heart of the city has been a nightmare for the last two years in the absence of the Majerhat bridge, can finally heave a sigh of relief on Thursday when a new road overbridge is set to be inaugurated there, re-establishing the lost link between two parts of the city on either side of the bridge. For many people, the reopening of the bridge means relief from traffic snarls, spending thrice the normal travel time, unbearable pollution and the nightmare to hospitalise kin or friends during emergency. “The reopening of the bridge is a rare good news of the year 2020. After the bridge had collapsed, we, the residents of Behala, started realising its importance. Once the bridge becomes operational again, we can get back to our old routine,” said Tanima Mondal, a resident of Behala, who works at a private firm on Camac Street. Shuvodeep Dey, who runs a retail grocery store in old Behala Market, faced a huge demand-supply gap because of the bridge collapse. The situation became difficult for residents of New Alipore — the immediate neighbourhood on the southern end of the bridge — from where a new road was carved out as an alternative. This led to rise in traffic flow and pollution. People of South 24 Parganas are also relieved. “Since our district headquarters is in Alipore, we had to travel almost every alternate day. In last two years, it became a nightmare,” said Salil Mondal of Bishnupur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-majerhat-bridge-set-to-open-tomorrow-commuters-hope-for-end-to-2-yr-travel-trauma/articleshow/79518464.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 2, 2020||Allahabad||23 inmates out on parole yet to return to Naini jail||Prayagraj: As many as 23 convicts out of the total 39 released on parole earlier in the year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, who were slated to return to Naini central jail on or before November 25, are yet to show up. Officials, meanwhile, said that the parole term of all the 39 convicts ended on November 21. A week after the expiry of their parole period, authorities of Naini central jail have written letters to the district magistrate, and senior superintendent of police (SSPs) concerned, seeking immediate action and arrest of the errant convicts. Senior superintendent of Naini central jail, PN Pandey, told TOI, “We have written to DM\SSPs of the concerned districts and sought their immediate intervention regarding the return of convicts back to Naini central jail”. He added, “Only 16 out of the total 39 short term convicts (less than seven years), released on parole in April and May, have returned to the Naini central jail so far”. Last week, a total of 2,256 convicts from 72 jails across the state released on parole by the jail authorities to check the spread of Covid-19, were sent notices by state authorities asking them to return to their respective prisons on or before the expiry of their parole extensions. As per jail authorities, the convicts were given 3-4 extensions after the expiry of their first parole of eight weeks on various dates initiated since the last week of March. The date of their return depended on the date of their release from the jail and expiry of the extension period. Before releasing the convicts, the jail officials had collected details from them as to where they would be staying during the parole period. However, since Naini jail authorities have no idea regarding the ‘missing’ status of the 23 convicts yet to return, the authorities have spoken to SSP\SPs of concerned districts and sought their immediate attention to ensure the safe return of the convicts to Naini central jail, at the soonest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/23-inmates-out-on-parole-yet-to-return-to-naini-jail/articleshow/79519843.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Agra||Farrukhabad, Kasganj top MLC poll voting in Agra section||Agra: Voting for 11 UP legislative council seats for graduates and teachers took place in UP on Tuesday. In Agra section, which comprises 12 districts of western UP, 70.78% voting was recorded for the graduate seat and 41.55% for teacher seat. For graduate seat of Agrasection, a maximum of 54.08% voting took place in Farrukhabad district and for teacher seat, 81.02% in Kasganj district. Voting took place on ballot papers amid tight security. For the graduate seat, 22 candidates were in the race. Out of total 2,82,068 registered voters in 12 districts of Agra section, 1,17,214 voters exercised their franchise. For teacher seat, 16 candidates were in the fray. Out of the 30,807 registered voters, only 21,806 teachers turned up to vote. According to divisional commissioner Anil Kumar, “The voting for MLC election was done in a fair and peaceful manner. The ballot boxes from all the 12 districts of Agra section will be collected at the Mandi Samiti premises in Agra. Counting will be conducted on December 3. Results will be declared on the same day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farrukhabad-kasganj-top-mlc-poll-voting-in-agra-section/articleshow/79517219.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Admission portals to go live today as Kolkata colleges hope to fill up vacancies in a week||KOLKATA: Admission portals of most city colleges are expected to go live on Wednesday inviting fresh applications to fill up the vacant seats in undergraduate courses. Several colleges still have 30% to 40% vacant seats, which translates to anything between 250 and 350 of the total number of seats at the undergraduate level. The students will get seven days to fill up the application forms of the colleges of their choice as directed by the higher education department, following a meeting between education minister Partha Chatterjee and vice-chancellors of state universities on Monday. Asok Mukhopadhyay, principal of Seth Anandram Jaipuria College, said their admission portal will go live on Wednesday. The college had de-reserved close to 500 seats a week before the deadline for the first phase of admission ended on October 30. “More than 20% of seats are yet to be filled up. We shall reopen the portal to fill up the vacancies,” said Mukhopadhyay. Debasish Banerjee, principal of Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration, said their admission portal will go live on December 2. “We have a few seats left, which we expect to fill up during this round of admission,” he said. Admission to UG courses, which was completely online this year due to the pandemic, was extended till October 30 after seats in several colleges remained vacant. After the deadline, several candidates cancelled their admissions adding to the list of vacant seats. An official of Bethune College said more than 20% of the seats were yet to be filled up. But the college is yet to decide if they will invite fresh applications or give opportunity to those who had already applied in the first phase and their names figure in the waiting list. The college has a total of almost 490 seats at the UG level. At Basanti Devi College, more than 30% seats are vacant. Principal Indrila Guha said, “Many candidates cancelled their admissions after the deadline got over on October 30, leaving several seats vacant. We are expecting to fill up many of those seats over the next seven days.” On November 26, Presidency University published the tenth provisional merit list to fill up 71 seats in nine subjects. “We are in the process of filling up the seats,” said an official. Authorities at Jadavpur University said that most seats had been filled up, but another provisional merit list could be issued if students cancel their admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/admission-portals-to-go-live-today-as-city-colleges-hope-to-fill-up-vacancies-in-a-wk/articleshow/79518470.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 2, 2020||Agra||Toddler raped by 14-year-old neighbour in Agra||Agra: A one and half years old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her 14-year-old neighbour who was booked by Agra police under section 376 (rape) of IPC and the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act at Etmaddula police station. Talking to TOI, SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said the medical report of the girl confirmed a sexual assault on her. The boy was on Tuesday produced before the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Board, which sent him to a juvenile home. According to the complaint filed by the girl’s mother, the incident took place on November 30. “My neighbour’s son took my daughter with him when she was playing outside. She, however, returned home crying with pain and her private part was injured and bleeding. I immediately informed police about the crime,” she stated in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/toddler-raped-by-14-year-old-neighbour-in-agra/articleshow/79517229.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||1,500 KLD septage plant to come up at Brahmapuram||Kochi: To address the issue of proper disposal of septage, the Suchitwa Mission has started measures to set up a 1,500 kilo litre per day (KLD) septage treatment plant at Brahmapuram. Once the plant is ready, it can take care of the treatment of septage waste from Kochi and its suburbs to a great extent. At present, there are one plant each with 100 KLD capacity at Brahmapuram and Willingdon Island. In the absence of proper plants to treat the waste, septage is being dumped on roadsides and waterbodies thereby causing contamination and spread of various diseases.  “Though the tender for the 1,500 KLD plant was invited in October 2020, only one firm attended the tender. Now, fresh tender will have to be invited and it can be done only after lifting the curbs as part of the election model code of conduct,” said an official associated with the project. Though there is no proper data regarding the total volume of septage being removed from the city and suburbs daily, the septic cleaners’ association puts the figure at 1,000 truckloads. “Around 20 truckloads of waste can be treated at a plant with a capacity of 100 KLD. So, the capacity of the new plant will be 300 truckloads daily. Moreover, the 100 KLD plant at Brahmapuram can treat 20 truckloads of septage daily. The same is the capacity of the one at Willingdon Island. Thus, the three plants together can treat 340 truckloads a day,” sources said. The district administration has mooted preparation of a septage master plan which will compile all aspects related to collection and scientific treatment of septage in the city. “Officials have started preparation of the master plan. Once the plan is ready, we will be able to prepare projects to collect and treat waste in a scientific manner. More plants, if required, will be set up. The capacity of the existing plants also can be augmented, if need arises,” sources said. The cost of the 1,500 KLD plant comes to Rs 23 crore which has been allotted to the local bodies as part of the urban agglomeration scheme. “Once the work on the plant is started, it can be completed within a year or so. All the trucks which are deployed for collection of septage waste in the city and suburbs will be monitored using global positioning system. This will put an end to the practice of dumping septage waste collected from various places into the waterbodies or shoulders of roads,” sources said. It with the same purpose that the septage treatment plant at Brahmapuram was started in 2014. But, the Rs 4-crore project failed to serve the purpose properly due mechanical errors and other reasons. The plant had either been defunct or functioning partially for several years. Still, the officials claim that the 100 KLD plant resumed its operations after carrying out repair works a few months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/1500-kld-septage-plant-to-come-up-at-brahmapuram/articleshow/79517231.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: School, college staff to report to work on alternate days||AHMEDABAD: The state education department on Tuesday directed all educational institutions to call only half their staffers to office given the prevailing Covid-19 situation. In a letter to the district education officers, the department said that at a time when all schools and colleges in the state are shut, the institutions will have to allow only 50% of their staff at offices, while the rest will have to work from home. “Teachers and other staff members will have to come to office every alternate day or thrice a week,” sources in the state government said. The department had earlier instructed schools and colleges to keep their working hours from 7.30am to 12pm. This was applicable for secondary and higher secondary schools. The state government had earlier announced the re-opening of schools from Classes 9 to 12 for students from November 23. The decision was rescinded after the state witnessed a spike in Covid-19 numbers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-college-staff-to-report-to-work-on-alternate-days/articleshow/79518478.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro steers clear of Qutub Minar||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has shifted the alignment of its mostly underground Phase IV Tughlaqabad-Aerocity corridor — named Silver Line — to circumvent the Qutub Minar and more than a hundred other historical structures dotting Mehrauli. The detour will add 3.4km to the length of the corridor. The corridor originally had 15 stations and was 20.2km in length, 16km of it underground. DMRC, which similarly changed the alignment of its Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) 15 years ago because the elevated section was deemed as affecting the visual aesthetic of the Qutub Minar, had expected the Archaeological Survey of India to allow an underground line. However, ASI instructed DMRC to shift the alignment, bringing the length to 23.6km. With the change in alignment, the four stations at Masoodpur, Kishangarh, Mehrauli and Lado Sarai that were originally a part of the corridor, have now been replaced by four new underground stations at Chattarpur, Chattarpur Mandir, IGNOU and Neb Sarai. Due to the shift, the corridor will now have an interchange facility with the Yellow Line at Chhatarpur instead of Saket as planned earlier. “The alignment was to primarily go underground and pass through the Archaeological Park in Mehrauli which is the site of a number of monuments of historical importance. Later, as per the instructions of ASI, the rail alignment for this section was shifted,” said a DMRC spokesperson on Tuesday. The earlier alignment passing by Qutub Minar was meant to serve the densely populated areas there on the premise that the underground tunnel would be permitted by ASI/National Monuments Authority as the amendment in the Ancient Monument and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Bill, 2018 defining “public work” was under the consideration of Parliament. The DMRC official said that a select committee of Parliament had also visited the Tughlaqabad Fort area on October 16, 2018 to get a first-hand feel of the issue. “However, since the amendment hasn’t been carried out, the modifications to the alignment has been accordingly planned,” the official said. “However, this too will still serve a large part as the areas through which the earlier alignment passed still fall within 500 metres to one kilometre of one or the other corridors of the Delhi Metro network.” The 15 stations of the corridor are Aerocity, Mahipalpur, Vasant Kunj, Kishangarh, Chattarpur, Chattarpur Mandir, IGNOU, Neb Sarai, Saket G Block, Ambedkar Nagar, Khanpur, Sangam Vihar Tigri, Anandmayee Marg, Tughlakabad Railway Colony and Tughlakabad. DMRC had started construction work on the elevated section of the corridor on August 17. The corridor promises to make the stretch of Mehrauli-Badarpur Road from Sangam Vihar to Saket signal-free. The corridor will connect the high-speed Airport Express Line with two busy metro corridors — Yellow (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) and Violet (Kashmere Gate-Raja Nahar Singh, Ballabhgarh) lines. A fourth interchange point will come up at the Saket G Block station if the Lajpat Nagar-Saket G Block corridor (8 km) of DMRC’s Phase IV is approved. This small corridor will be a link among the Magenta (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West), Pink (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) and Silver Lines. The new corridor will also boast Delhi’s first double-deck viaduct (2.4 km) with the metro corridor on the upper level and a six-lane road flyover on the lower deck, apart from a six-lane underpass that will connect Saket G Block to Sangam Vihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-steers-clear-of-qutub-minar/articleshow/79518484.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||On migration route, bees made pit-stops on planes: Experts||KOLKATA: The swarm of bees that settled on two aircraft parked in the same bay on successive days used the planes as pit-stops on their migration route. That the bees homed in on the planes of Vistara Airlines having a logo with a floral pattern is mere coincidence, believe entomologists. “The rock bees (Apis dorsata) chose the plane as a resting, not a nesting site,” said Zoological Survey of India senior scientist, Rajmohana K, who has been studying bees for years while referring to the settling of the bee swarms on two planes on Sunday evening and Monday morning, leading to their delayed departure. “Swarming is a part of the splitting of big nests. When the colony becomes too large, a portion migrates with a virgin queen to set up a new nest. A group of scout bees will set off before the other to find the right nesting place. Till they find that, there will be interim resting places for the bees to catch their breath. They could be doing just that at Kolkata airport,” she said. The two swarms on Sunday evening and Monday morning could be different ones, one following the other; or the same one that was dislodged the first day and hung around to try the luck a second time before being again dislodged by water canons. Calcutta University zoology department professor and director of the Centre for Pollination Studies, Parthib Basu, said the migration could also be triggered by environmental conditions or disturbances. Naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, who has also followed the migratory patterns of birds and insects, said that unlike birds that migrate to warmer places to avoid extreme cold temperature, bees migrate according to different flowering seasons in search of food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-migration-route-bees-made-pit-stops-on-planes-experts/articleshow/79518488.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SEC gets CPI symbol wrong, repoll ordered||HYDERABAD: Polling in the old Malakpet ward was cancelled on Tuesday and repolling ordered after voters complained that the Communist Party of India’s (CPI) symbol of corn and sickle was replaced with the CPI (Marxist) symbol of hammer, sickle and star on the ballot paper. Firdous Fatima, the CPI candidate, complained to the State Election Commission (SEC) and polling officials about the mistake, and voting in ward 26 of old Malakpet was initially stopped. After a quick probe, the SEC announced a repoll on December 3 in the ward, comprising 69 polling stations and banned exit polls. “In view of the repoll, publication, broadcasting, and telecasting of exit polls of GHMC is banned till 6 pm on December 3,” read a statement issued by the SEC. “No person shall convene, hold, attend, join any public meeting in connection with the election,” it said. “No person shall propagate any election matter to the public in any polling area during the period of 48 hours prior to the hours fixed for the conclusion of the poll for any election in that polling area,” the SEC said. As soon as news of the goof-up spread, dozens of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) workers hit the streets and started protesting. The Malakpet assembly segment is represented by Ahmed Balala of AIMIM. A senior groundwater department official, Khairatabad was deputed as returning officer for the Old Malakpet ward in the polls. “The RO has to check the spelling of the candidate’s name and symbol allotted to party thoroughly. But in this issue she failed to check it before final printing of the ballot paper,” GHMC nodal officer-Ballot paper G Venkateswarlu told TOI. Initially, the SEC will serve a show-cause notice to the RO and ask for an explanation about wrong printing. The local CPI polling agent Hussain said that during scrutiny there was no mistake in the ballot papers. “The mistake was done in the ballot papers produced in the polling booth,” he said. CPI leaders said the party was also contesting in Moosarambagh ward in Malakpet assembly segment and there were no errors in the ballot papers there. The CPI leaders also blamed rivals for high-handedness. “The AMIM went to Firdaus Fatima and asked her to withdraw her nomination. How can there be a wrong party symbol, this is a threat to democracy,” alleged CPI’s Chadda Venkat Reddy. In view of the repolling order, a voter, Naresh Mudiraj from old Malakpet ward, said government employees should be given exemption from work on December 3. “The situation was chaotic in the afternoon as there were dozens of cops deployed. People assumed that there was a clash between the two communities. Many of them are not aware of the next poll date too,” said Abdul Wahab, near Malakpet onion market, who was unable to cast his vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-gets-cpi-symbol-wrong-repoll-ordered/articleshow/79520412.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Dentist arrested for running over woman 2 weeks ago in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two weeks after a 38-year-old woman was killed in a road accident in south Delhi’s Lado Sarai, a dentist with a private clinic in Saket has been arrested for allegedly mowing her down and fleeing from the spot. The victim, who used to work with a private bank as a customer associate and lived on rent in Lado Sarai, was hit while crossing the road. Police had received a call on November 17 about the accident at the Lado Sarai traffic signal. On reaching the spot, they found the woman, originally from Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh, to be critically injured. She was taken to AIIMS where she was declared brought dead. On November 26, the victim’s brother tweeted, “I lost my sister, Archana Kushwaha, in an accident on 17th Nov at Lado Sarai Signal Delhi around 8.30PM, till now no clue about car and it’s being 10 days since accident happened (sic).” He also tagged the Prime Minister’s Office, AAP and Delhi Police. On the day of the accident, crime and forensic teams visited the spot while the victim’s body was sent for a postmortem and her family was informed. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said a case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered and a hunt was launched for the accused. “Multiple teams were formed and CCTV footage from the vicinity were scanned. Following days of surveillance, we zeroed in on a Honda City car and its driver was identified as Pankaj Sudhakar, a resident of Kalkaji Extension,” Thakur said. The DCP said Sudhakar was driving at a high speed. The accused might have been drunk during the accident, said a source. The car has been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dentist-arrested-for-running-over-woman-2-wks-ago/articleshow/79518530.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU defers exams||Due to the worsening Covid-19 situation, Gujarat University (GU) has finally decided not to go ahead with its examinations scheduled for later this month. Gujarat Technological University (GTU) had already announced the postponement of examinations that were to start from December 10. GTU decided to defer its exams because of the increase in Covid-19 cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-defers-exams/articleshow/79518491.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 30-year-old falls from moving bus, dies||KOLKATA: A 30-year-old man who was trying to alight from a moving bus near Taltala on Lenin Sarani fell down and died on Monday night. The man, Pappu Sahani from Muzzaffarpur in Bihar, was rushed to NRS Hospital where he was declared dead. Cops are searching for the killer bus and its driver with the help of CCTV footage in the area. They have registered a case of death due to rash and negligent driving. There have been 13 fatal accidents since October 31 in the city. The sudden rise in accidents has drawn the attention of officers at Lalbazar. Senior officers told TOI that there is nothing to worry with the number of accidents when compared to the same in earlier years. Among the killer vehicles on the roads are trucks and buses. Out of 267 accidents, about 175 were fatal ones last year. “App cabs are also involved in accidents. We have called for a report from both the local traffic guards and the fatal squad,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/30-yr-old-falls-from-moving-bus-dies/articleshow/79518509.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Youngster sets apart farm pond for animals to quench thirst||Coimbatore: Amid the growing cry to shoot down wild animals that raid crops, a young farmer at Thondamuthur has dedicated his pond to the animals to quench their thirst. According to his family, the latest sighting at the pond was a wild elephant that came to drink water on Monday night. Besides wild animals, cows, buffaloes and goat that pass by the area stop at the pond to drink water.Twenty-five-year-old Sudhakar says the pond was created by his father Karuppusamy 12 years ago when the district was battling drought on and off. The pond occupies half an acre of their 20-acre farmland, which is located on the fringes of Western Ghats and Narsipuram forest at Thondamuthur.“We created the pond to save rainwater and improve groundwater table. We were initially using the pond for irrigation. At one stage, we saw animals coming to the pond to quench the thirst,” he says.Five years ago, the family opted for drip irrigation and stopped using the pond. “However, we took a conscious decision not to close the pond, as animals were using it. The pond is frequented by wild elephants and birds. We have been seeing them coming to drink water for years and didn’t want to deprive them of the facility,” says Sudhakar, an MBA holder who took to farming.When asked if the animals were raiding his crops, he said that used to happen sometimes. “We have created a fence around the crops - cabbage, tomato, groundnut and pulses, etc., - to prevent animals, especially pigs, from damaging them. Despite our best efforts, some animals raid crops at times. But that is okay with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/youngster-sets-apart-farm-pond-for-animals-to-quench-thirst/articleshow/79518503.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Garment units in Tirupur see sharp dip in face mask biz||Coimbatore: The garment hub of Tirupur had found a new business opportunity during the lockdown – manufacturing of face masks. Millions of masks were made and supplied across the country, keeping the otherwise idle sewing machines of the garment units running.But there has been a sharp drop in orders for face masks post Diwali. Several garment units haven’t received any orders. There are also instances of traders returning masks to the manufacturers, citing poor sales.Vijay Kumar of Priya Garments, a medium scale manufacturer in Tirupur, says, “Two bundles of masks were sent back to us from Coimbatore. Consignments are being returned from North India too. Now, we have stopped making masks totally.”Tirupur units started making face masks towards the end of March. By mid-April, the garments units in that district were making lakhs of masks and supplying them across the country. The trend continued till June, when the demand was growing daily. But by July, there was a stagnation in orders, as several players across the country entered into the face mask business and there was a stiff competition to grab market.By November, orders to Tirupur units plummeted. A Jagdish, proprietor of JVR Clothings, says, “We were supplying about 30,000 masks a month. But it came down to half that quantity in November.” While people are continuing to use face masks, he says buying fresh masks has reduced. “Everyone has bought at least half a dozen masks already. So, they keep reusing them, rather than buying new ones. That’s is the reason for the drop in sales.”According to him, the orders, which are far and few, are coming from corporate houses, which seek quality masks for their employees and clients.Orders from merchants have fallen and they demand a very low price, which is not viable, say manufacturers. “Face masks are low value products, which don’t give us high profit. When there was no regular business, we found manufacturing masks as a saviour. But now our regular orders for garments have started coming,” says a leading manufacturer.Not just face masks, orders for personal protection equipment (PPE) kits too has come down. For instance, Priya Garments was supplying 5,000 PPE kits a month. Today, its business is nil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/garment-units-in-tirupur-see-sharp-dip-in-face-mask-biz/articleshow/79518531.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Theme park on ‘Apur Sansar’ in New Town||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) will build a theme park in New Town on ‘Apur Sansar’ in honour of the late actor Soumitra Chatterjee who had made his debut in the film directed by legendary filmmaker Satyajit Ray in 1959. The theme park will be developed behind ‘Snehadiya’, a senior citizens’ home, in Action Area I. The authorities on Tuesday floated the expression of interest to select a consultant after a design competition to come up with the best drawing and structural design for the theme park. “In the design competition, the bidders will come up with ideas and designs on how the theme park will be developed. The idea is to have 3D images, graphic projections or cut-out images of the film. The best design will be selected for implementation,” said a NKDA official, adding that the work of setting up a Professor Shonku theme park is also underway in New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/theme-park-on-apur-sansar-in-new-town/articleshow/79518540.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Entry online, but Law Faculty calls staffers to centre||NEW DELHI: Most colleges and departments at Delhi University have conducted this year’s admissions online with teachers working from home. However, Law Faculty teachers have been asked to report at one of its centres, though close to 100 teachers objected in writing. The admission process began on Tuesday. Many teachers said the work could be easily done from home, yet they will have to report to the department till Thursday. On November 25, the dean of the faculty had sent emails asking teachers from all three centres to come to Umang Bhawan. Around 96 teachers wrote to the dean stating it would expose them to the risk of Covid-19. Their letter stated that according to emails, around 50 teachers and close to 20 non-teaching staffers would sit in Umang Bhawan from 10am to 5pm every day for four days. “We feel that at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is at an all-time high in Delhi with thousands of fresh cases being reported every day, it is absolutely unsafe to spend seven hours with 70 other people in a closed room,” the teachers wrote. Close to 12 teachers in the faculty have had already tested positive for the viral infection. Many of “our colleagues do not have personal vehicles and use public transport, which, in itself, is a dangerous concept in the present scenario”, the teachers pointed out. As there will be no student interaction in the entire admission process, which will be online, “we feel that this work can be carried out from anywhere using an internet facility”, they added. The fact that the work can be done from anywhere has also been confirmed by officials of Delhi University Computer Centre, the letter stated. Despite the letter, several teachers had to report to work on November 26. One of the teachers who had visited the faculty said, “That day, we had to just sit and do nothing. It was a sheer waste of time.” The admission to the faculty was postponed thrice and finally the process started on Tuesday. Another teacher, who came on Tuesday, too, said, “All it requires to carry out the admission process is a laptop and an internet connection. There was no need to go to the faculty. When evaluation could be done at home, why the admissions can’t be? It is just our faculty that is hell-bent.” The dean, Vandana, could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/entry-online-but-law-faculty-calls-staffers-to-centre/articleshow/79518569.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 2, 2020||Kochi||‘HADR has made Indian Navy more defensive & supportive’||Kochi: Ever since the giant waves originated off Indonesia submerged the coastal South and Southeast Asia, including India, during the Tsunami in December 2004, the Indian Navy has risen itself as the first responder in Indian Ocean Region (IOR) through its massive ‘humanitarian assistance and disaster relief’ (HADR) activities. According to officers at the Southern Naval Command (SNC) in Kochi, Navy’s tenor has become more defensive and supportive rather than being aggressive over the past 10 years through HADR missions. With the Navy launching year-long celebrations to commemorate ‘50 years of victory at sea’, two pilots of SNC — Capt P Rajkumar (retd) and Cdr T Anup Kumar — who had received gallantry awards for their ‘search and rescue’ (SAR) missions during Cyclone Ockhi and 2018 floods, speak to TOI about their risky missions and Navy’s evolution to become the first responder in IOR. Capt Rajkumar, who received Shaurya Chakra for rescuing a fisherman from a capsized boat in rough seas through a risky night-time mission on Sea King helicopter during Ockhi, said the Navy has increased deployment for undertaking HADR and SAR missions due to higher instances of natural disasters over the past decades. He said post Tsunami, until when such missions were reactive and ad hoc in nature, Navy has assumed a benign role shifting their overseas deployment pattern toward ‘mission-based deployments’. “Ships stay mission-ready all the time carrying additional HADR kits, thus enabling them to undertake relief work on short notice,” said the officer, who has nearly 35 years of flying experience. Cdr Anup Kumar, chief manager of flight test centre at Naval Aircraft Yard in Kochi, said the technical readiness of naval assets for such missions is important. When naval aircraft yard (NAY) was asked to roll out as many aircraft as possible to bolster SAR operations during 2018 floods, one of the Chetak helicopters, which are essential for the mission for its small size, agility and manoeuvrability, was scheduled for overhaul having life expired. As there was no other option, NAY decided to push the limits of the chopper and Kumar volunteered to fly it knowing the risks. “The mission was to drop relief materials. But I had to improvise the mission to airlift a woman after finding her in advanced stage of pregnancy from a rooftop braving the electric cables, close proximity of buildings, tall trees and minimal rotor tip clearance. The mission could have gone catastrophic but it became successful and I received a Nau Sena Medal for it. But I believe the biggest reward for that service was that thankful look of the woman for saving her baby. I can never forget that,” Kumar said. Capt Sridhar Warrier, defence PRO, Kochi, said Navy’s service has become more visible now. “The flavour and nature of war has changed over these years it is unlikely to see another war of the scale of what we witnessed during 1971 or 1992. It is more of security issues and standoffs allowing Navy to focus more on HADR,” Warrier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hadr-has-made-indian-navy-more-defensive-supportive/articleshow/79517291.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid curve maintains downward trend, hosp bed occupancy drops||Coimbatore: The district recorded 141 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 48,866. With 145 people getting discharged on the same day, the number of active cases stood at 935. The district also recorded no deaths on the day, keeping the toll at 613. The number of people discharged climbed slightly to 47,318, pointing to a recovery rate of 96.8%. In another sign that the Covid-19 curve in the district is on the downward trend, compared to a time when at least 40% of the 9,300 beds allotted for infected people were occupied, bed occupancy has dropped to 10%. As of Monday, there are only 939 Covid-19 cases for the 9,362 beds available. In the government sector, only 287 out of the 3,888 beds are occupied. While ESI Hospital has 165 patients for the 440 beds in its Covid building, CMCH has only 100 patients in its 500-bed Covid ward. Pollachi and Madukkarai government hospitals have only 11 patients each. In the private sector, 368 people were admitted across 23 hospitals. While many hospitals have less than 10 patients, super specialty hospitals, including main Covid treating centres like PSG Hospital, have only 109 in-patients from the district as of Tuesday. While Royal Care Hospital has 22 patients, both the KMCH centres have only 48 patients from the district. “While the numbers are a fraction of August and September figures, we are still getting patients from Tirupur and Dindigul among other districts,” said an official from PSG Hospitals. This has led to the health department admitting patients only in two Covid care centres. “We have 256 patients in CODISSIA and 22 people in Karunya University’s Madhampalayam campus. We will phase out Karunya also slowly,” a health department official said. Six Covid care centres have been closed in the district. Privately-run Covid care centre - CSR nursing home - has six patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-curve-maintains-downward-trend-hosp-bed-occupancy-drops/articleshow/79518573.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Pune||Schools start nursery admissions with virtual tours & trial classes||Pune: On-demand video for a view of the campus, trial online classes, and sample worksheets are some innovative changes that private schools in the city have introduced as nursery admissions begin online.Many schools have posted on their website regarding the admission process and a majority have made the system completely online right from the application to submission to avoid crowding on their premises. The academic session of many non-state board schools ends in March 2021, and many have scheduled the admission process from December till February.Principal of Orchids, The International School, in Nigdi, Aanieetaa Vaissnava, said keeping in mind the thought of working with the new normal, the school has given parents the choice to pick a suitable time during which they are given access to attend online classes on their platform, with their child.“ Most parents are working from home now, and may not find the time to attend during weekdays. For such parents, we give access to the weekend hobby classes or the evening extra classes. It helps them understand the kind of help students receive beyond regular teaching. Also, students are allowed to sit in the ongoing online classes for one week to observe the class. This creates a bond between the student and the teacher even before admission. Parents get a virtual tour of the campus that their child will eventually attend, building trust and faith that the child will be in good care and would be taken care of even if it is online schooling,” she added.Many schools had to create videos of their campuses and post them on their websites for new parents to visit and see the infrastructure. The videos are three-dimensional and walk through ones that take the viewer inside laboratories, classrooms, games facilities and even washrooms to ensure that parents are able to see the whole campus.Principal of The HDFC School in Hadapsar, Amruta Prabhu, said the school has added a feature of online interaction with parents and the child for queries on academics. The school also has digitalized the registration, admissions payment and document submission. “We have made an interactive online curriculum as per the guidelines of screen time for pre-primary children,” she said.Tier II schools that cannot afford to invest in virtual tour videos are giving appointments to parents to visit schools. Roshni Benke, principal of SN English Medium School in Wagholi, said they started the process in November and have been receiving applications. “Till the last year, our system blended with applications being received both online and in-hand at the office counter. This year, it has gone totally online from start to end,” she added.The VIBGYOR Group of Schools has commenced admissions for the new academic year, with a host of precautions in line with government guidelines. To ensure the safety of parents as well as VIBGYOR staff , this school is facilitating 3D virtual tours of the entire campus, laboratories, playgrounds and amenities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-start-nursery-admissions-with-virtual-tours-trial-classes/articleshow/79518568.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 2, 2020||Pune||Kids go online to learn languages, calligraphy||Pune: From arts and craft to map-reading and coding, children from the city are being exposed to an assortment of extra-curricular activities. Moving away from the offline ritual of attending school, completing homework and playing outdoors, many children have now adapted to an online ritual of schooling and extra-curricular activities as playing outdoors is still limited. According to parents, fewer school hours are leaving children with more time and they are on a constant lookout for things to keep the kids occupied, even help them upskill. Coding has struck the chord for thousands of families across the country. Children as young as six years of age are attending online coding classes at the behest of their parents. According to Sonal Patel, who teaches coding, her classes are more about improving logic and developing a problem-solving ability than actually coding to develop softwares or games. “We teach children about interacting with computers, using logic in different situations, using code to solve puzzles and other such activities. The activities are for improvements in thinking abilities. It is not necessary that the child will grow up to become a programmer or a software engineer. I generally encourage children over nine years to enrol but I teach six-year-olds too,” she said. Music has caught children's attention. Pranita Bansode-Kamble from Graciaa Musicals said, “I conducted weekend classical singing sessions before the lockdown and had about 8 to 10 students. However, when we started online classes during the lockdown, the demand doubled. I am teaching classical singing to 20 students at the moment. Among the instruments, keyboard and guitar are the most sought after options by children and their parents. Earlier, our students were restricted to Pune but now we have students from across the country and from overseas.” Abhilasha Bang, who is associated with My Playdate, said children are learning yoga, dancing, arts and craft, calligraphy, Rubik’s cube solving, phonics, storytelling, digital art and much more. Many others are learning Hindi or foreign languages. Counsellors warn that parents must enrol their children into extra-curricular activities without any plans for the future. General activities like singing, dancing, calligraphy and art are a good way to engage children, but more rigorous avenues must be avoided, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kids-go-online-to-learn-languages-calligraphy/articleshow/79518574.cms||Rujuta Parekh
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown brings light into lives of jobless couple||Coimbatore: Thirty-three-year-old Mahesh Gopalakrishnan, of Vijaylakshmi Mills at Kuniamuthur, was a worried lot when he lost his job with a jewellery showroom in Mysuru during the lockdown. Most firms had stopped hiring and the jobs that were available weren’t matching his earlier pay scale.When he moved to the city to stay with his wife’s family, her uncle suggested him to start a business venture of their own. After researching various options, the couple decided to start making LED bulbs at home. Six months later, they have today produced 250 9-volt LED bulbs in the first batch and are planning to market them.Mahesh and his 29-year-old wife Ramya say they spent the first three months learning the process and the remaining three months making the LED bulbs at home, where they have a bulb machine.Mahesh says, “Once I decided to get into LED bulb making, I learnt how to make them by watching YouTube videos and channels. I then bought raw materials from Gujarat and New Delhi through IndiaMART, an e-commerce platform, and a bulb making machine three months ago. Since my wife was also at home, I taught her to make the bulbs. We have made 250 bulbs so far.”The couple plan to start marketing their first-batch of white LED bulbs to electrical wholesalers and dealers over the next few weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-brings-light-into-lives-of-jobless-couple/articleshow/79518589.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||Cut stamp duty on property regn: Realtors tell govt||Kochi: Real estate developers in the city have demanded the state government to reduce stamp duty on transactions of immovable properties to boost sales. According to them, in a situation where there is widespread job and income loss due to the pandemic, reduction of stamp duty to 3% and registration charges to 1% is the need of the hour. Though the Centre government has been encouraging the state governments to bring down stamp duty, developers say that the state was yet to take a decision on this. City-based builders, who are members of Credai, point out that Maharashtra and Karnataka governments have cut stamp duty on transactions of immovable properties and this has resulted in increased sales in these states. “Kerala has one of the highest stamp duty rates, and it stands at 8%. The registration charge is 2%, thus taking the total expenses related to registration to 10 %. Considering the Covid-19 impact, various states have reduced the stamp duty to give economic impetus through real estate development. Credai has already written to the chief minister highlighting our demand,” said a Credai member on condition of anonymity. Developers bring attention to the national housing and habitat policy that envisages a stamp duty of 3%, which is to be uniformly followed in all states. According to them, the Karnataka government brought down the stamp duty from 5 to 3 % and applied it to industries buying a property that is building or land. “States like Maharashtra and Telangana have reduced the rates further even from the prescribed 3%. The decision was taken to improve demand in the housing sector. Residential sales in Mumbai, the country’s most expensive property market, increased to 36 % year-on-year in October surpassing pre-Covid levels,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cut-stamp-duty-on-property-regn-realtors-tell-govt/articleshow/79517309.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Cops book Metro contractor over worker’s death in Sept||Pune: The Koregaon Park police on Monday booked a contractor for negligence following an investigation into the death of a 23-year-old worker at a Metro site in September. The worker — Abhinandkumar Nandkishor Ramani of Bihar — had fallen to his death from a 10-metre-high pillar near Bund Garden on the evening of September 28.Ramani, who was living at Nagpur chawl in Yerawada, was among workers deployed to remove bolts from the pillar, when the accident occurred. TOI visited the site of the accident on Tuesday and learnt that Ramani was about to put on a safety harness, when he lost his balance and fell. “There was no safety net around the pillar,” one worker said.Sub-inspector Manisha Tule of the Koregaon Park police registered the complaint on Monday, and sub-inspector Bhagwat Shendge is investigating the case. Police said the contractor did not put in place safety measures at the work site. “Our investigation has revealed that the contractor did not provide a safety harness to these workers. He also didn’t install a safety net around the pillar. The net could have saved Ramani’s life,” sub-inspector Shendge said.On the delay in registering a case, a senior police officer said they were waiting for the victim’s kin to come forward with a complaint. “Ramani’s body was taken to his native place in Bihar. After waiting for two months, we decided to register a case against the contractor,” the officer said.Meanwhile, an official from Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro), which is executing the project, said they have punished the contractor. “We conducted an inquiry immediately and fined the contractor. We also issued a warning to him to ensure adequate safety measures at the site going forward,” the official said. The MahaMetro official further stressed that they were following all safety protocols at Metro work sites in the city. “Workers are repeatedly trained on safety measures. They are compelled to make use of personal protective equipment (PPE) and safety nets are installed where required,” the official said.“Every contractor has been told to set up a separate team to monitor the safety measures. In addition to this, MahaMetro and the general consultant have separate teams to conduct checks. Contractors have also been told to install barricades at work sites,” the MahaMetro official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-metro-contractor-over-workers-death-in-sept/articleshow/79518582.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||More pupils turn up, but classes not full||Pune: A week since reopening, the number of schools with physical classes has doubled and the students’ strength has increased by about 44% in the rural areas of Pune.However, it is nowhere close to the early forecast that all schools would reopen catering to a substantial students’ strength by December 1.Education officials said parents have been positive, and as more schools reopen, the number of students attending will also increase. On November 23, about 215 schools had reopened in rural Pune with an attendance of 9,433 students. On November 28, the last working day of the school that week, the numbers rose to 478, and 16,814, respectively. The delay in getting the Covid-19 test results has slowed the reopening. “Testing is happening but there is some delay in the process and in getting the results. Only when we get the test results of the teachers in a school can it reopen. Hence, the numbers are not as expected. Moreover, the graduate constituency elections were a busy period for teachers. We will see an increase in both numbers in 15 days,” education officer Ganpat More said.While some schools that reopened are concentrating on revision of topics already taught in the online mode, others have decided to teach those from the second term, and gradually revise the online content. A mathematics teacher from Khed said, “ I am teaching my students “probability” which is a new topic. It is possible to teach it without revision of the online portion. Revision is a must because gauging by what we have observed in the class, students have not understood much in the online classes. Only the ones who were above average in studies have been able to cope,” the teacher said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-pupils-turn-up-but-classes-not-full/articleshow/79518577.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||As Delhi's IGI footfall picks up, Terminal-1 may come into play soon||NEW DELHI: The passenger footfall at Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) is increasing at a steady rate, with over 19 lakh flyers — 42% of the pre-Covid traffic — handled in October, the airport operator DIAL said. With daily flights also gradually increasing, Terminal-1 may soon be made operational, a source said, though Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) was yet to take any decision. Currently, flights are operating only from Terminal-2 and Terminal-3. Passenger flight operations resumed at the Delhi airport from T3 on May 25 after a hiatus of close to two months due to Covid-19. From October, DIAL is also using T2. Data shows IGIA is connecting the maximum number of domestic destinations at 69 — two more than pre-Covid times and 10 more than Mumbai and Bengaluru, each connecting to 59 destinations. This is followed by Hyderabad (57), Kolkata (49) and Chennai (44). DIAL said the air-travel demand had received a boost during the festive season of Navratri, Diwali and Chhath Puja, with Mumbai, Patna, Srinagar, Bangalore and Hyderabad emerging as the top five domestic destinations for Delhi. “With the largest domestic and international network, the Delhi airport has been able to connect thousands of passengers to their respective home towns or business locations,” said DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar. DIAL is hopeful that the recent government decision to allow up to 70% of the domestic slots in the coming days will help IGIA achieve the pre-Covid levels soon, he added. The minister of state for civil aviation, Hardeep Singh Puri, recently expressed confidence that passenger traffic would reach its pre-Covid level by January. IndiGo, Air India and SpiceJet are operating the most number of flights from IGIA. Under Vande Bharat Mission, IGIA connected to 66 international destinations till October — 26 in Asia, 14 in Middle East, 11 in Europe, eight in North America, four in Africa and three in Australia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-igi-footfall-picks-up-t1-may-come-into-play-soon/articleshow/79518688.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||PMC recovers over Rs 341 crore in taxes via amnesty scheme||PUNE: The civic administration has recovered more than Rs341 crore in property tax in two months through its amnesty scheme for the defaulters. The scheme, which ended on Monday, was availed of by around 1.1 lakh tax defaulters. Property holders with dues less than Rs 50 lakh were given an 80% waiver on the penalty on the actual pending property tax amount under the initiative. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation officials (PMC), a total of 29,916 property taxpayers paid their dues of Rs132 crore in the last week. The number of defaulters who have cleared the tax dues in November is 59,647 and the amount collected is Rs218 crore. PMC officials said the revenue of the property tax department went up to Rs1,190 crore with the recovery. The revenue collected so far is higher by Rs184 crore as compared to the last year. The civic administration was expecting to generate around Rs1,000 crore from this scheme. Total tax dues owed by the defaulters is around Rs4,500 crore, the officials said. PMC records show that around 10.6 lakh properties are in the property tax net. The number of properties increased in 2017 after the merger of 11 villages in the municipal limits. Around 2 lakh properties were added in the tax net after that merger. The PMC gives concession to the property tax payers who pay before May 31 of every year. This year, an extension of around a month was given for the payment of tax. The civic administration offers around 20% concession to the citizens who pay their tax on time and also to those, who follow vermi-composting and rainwater harvesting. Property tax is one of the biggest income sources for the civic body, specially after other income sources like octroi, local body tax have been abolished. Some elected members have asked for an extension to the scheme to recover dues from more defaulters and meet the earmarked revenue expectation. A proposal to extend the scheme until December 31 has been tabled before the Pune Municipal Corporation standing committee. In September, the civic administration had formed a special recovery team to implement the amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-recovers-over-rs-341cr-in-taxes-via-amnesty-scheme/articleshow/79518591.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||Veteran coach D’Souza resumes coaching||Kochi: Rufus D’Souza, the legendary player and coach, resumed football and hockey coaching sessions at Parade Ground in Fort Kochi on Tuesday. He had been coaching football and hockey aspirants in two batches at the ground for the past 50 years. It is after eight months that D’Souza resumed the coaching session. D’Souza had captained Thiru-Kochi and Tamil Nadu hockey teams and Tamil Nadu football team. “It was in May 1970 that I started coaching for children at Parade Ground. Coaching would be there on all days except Sundays. When I stopped the training in March following the lockdown, there were around 40 students in the morning batch and 30 in the evening,” D’Souza said. “When we resumed the coaching at 5.30am on Tuesday, there were only 15 children. We expect that more children will join in the coming days,” D’Souza said. “Considering the Covid-19 situation, we will not be restarting the evening session until January next year,” he said. The lockdown had hampered the golden jubilee celebration of his coaching sessions at Parade Ground, which fell in May 2020. “I have many disciples. Some of them have played for India while one of them is an Olympian,” D’Souza said. Dinesh Naik whom D’Souza trained was part of the Indian Hockey which played in Olympics “Sebastian Netto, Firoz Sherriff and K A Anson who played for Indian football team, Hamilton Bobby who had captained Tamil Nadu in Santhosh Trophy, former captain of Indian railways football team Jacob Varghese, former captain of Kerala Hockey team Sunil Emmatty are among my disciples,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/veteran-coach-dsouza-resumes-coaching/articleshow/79517317.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||IAS officer moves Telangana high court, wants trial in mining case postponed||HYDERABAD: Senior IAS officer and former secretary of AP industries department Y Srilakshmi approached Telangana high court urging it to direct the CBI court in Hyderabad to postpone the ongoing trial in the illegal mining case pertaining to mining baron Gali Janardhan Reddy’s Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC) till the border dispute that arose on account of the tussle between OMC and its rival mining companies on AP-Karnataka border is resolved. It has been the demand of Janardhan and other accused in the case that only when the border line is drawn clearly demarcating their mining area, then the question of looking at whether they crossed the line would arise. Srilakshmi is the sixth accused in the CBI’s OMC chargesheet that arrayed Janardhan and OMC MD B Srinivas Reddy, IAS officer Kripanandam, and Sabitha Indra Reddy, who was then mines minister, as accused. The high court in November 2008 gave an order asking Surveyor General of India to verify whether the geo trigonometric station (GTS) point that was supposed to be there at the iron ore mining site in Anantapur district was still there or not. The case of CBI, however, is different. It alleged that OMC intentionally changed the GTS points and created the border confusion only to legalise its illegal ore extracted from Karnataka area. CBI cited the issuance of 197 lakh transport permits by AP government during Srilakshmi’s tenure as industries secretary. According to an estimate made by the CBI, OMC earned Rs 4,310 crore through this illegal iron ore business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ias-officer-moves-t-hc-wants-trial-in-mining-case-postponed/articleshow/79518603.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kanpur||Ram Gopal alleges foul play in Council polls||Kanpur: In a veiled attack, Samajwadi Party general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Gopal Yadav has alleged that “the way in which the ruling BJP is trying to manipulate things in the ongoing Legislative Council elections has made it clear that its candidates want to win the teacher and graduate elections without any contest”. Yadav was talking to reporters after casting his vote at a polling booth in Saifai block in Etawah on Tuesday. Yadav said, “The way the names of my party workers have been deleted from voter rolls by the ruling party, the teacher and graduate constituency elections are not fair any more. There are many such people whose names are not there in the voters list. We have received several inputs with regard to the same since early Tuesday morning.” He added, “The representatives of the ruling party are using wrong means like manipulation and pressurising police and district officials. This only shows that the candidates of the ruling party want to win the teacher and graduate elections without any contest, thus setting a wrong tradition.” Yadav reached the polling booth at the Saifai block and cast his vote at around 8 am in the morning. The polling for Agra section graduates and teachers was conducted at various levels in Etawah on Tuesday. In total, 25 polling booths were raised across the district for 42,000 voters for graduate and 2,200 voters for teacher elections. The Election Commission of India (ECI) guidelines were followed for teacher and graduate elections amid the novel coronavirus pandemic. Thermal scanners were used at polling booths to ensure that any Covid-19 patient is not allowed to enter. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, besides party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav’s brother Rajpal Yadav and latter’s wife Prem Lata Yadav too cast their votes at a polling booth in the Saifai block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ram-gopal-alleges-foul-play-in-council-polls/articleshow/79519860.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 2, 2020||Kanpur||Google Maps to help track Covid cases in city||Kanpur:The district health authorities in coordination with the health directorate and World Health Organisation (WHO) are all set to track coronavirus patients in the city using the Google Maps feature. The aim is to identify and help medically the coronavirus patients, besides also help the citizens know the exact location of residential pockets where coronavirus cases have been found so that they do not venture there and stay safe. “Keeping in mind the second wave of the pandemic and with a view to stop the spread of the disease, the health department ‘in larger public interest’, will use the app to assess locations of such patients so that he/she be properly screened and taken care of, besides prevent people to stay away from such areas,” said a senior health official. “Areas where high number of patients will be found, will be declared red zones and greater containment and monitoring of the people’s physical movement and health would be done immediately. Subsequently, RRT (Rapid Response Team) will visit that particular affected area for contact tracing and screening. Thereafter, the RRT will collect other details of coronavirus patients and put them on Google Maps,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Anil Mishra. He added, “During the entire exercise, the patient’s secrecy would be maintained. Only the area where the coronavirus patient is found would be reflected in Google Maps. Trial for launching the feature with the help of the health directorate and WHO has already begun and soon it will be implemented across the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/google-maps-to-help-track-covid-cases-in-city/articleshow/79519868.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 90% of coronavirus deaths are of patients above 45 years||AHMEDABAD: On Tuesday, with addition of 15 deaths in 24 hours, Gujarat became ninth state in India to cross deaths of 4,000 Covid-19 positive patients at 4,004. With 2,070 deaths, Ahmedabad district alone accounted for 51.7% of the deaths during the pandemic. Analysis of the age group of the deceased patients prepared by the state health department reveals that 90.1% of the patients were above 45 years of age. Among the different age groups, the highest mortality (52.3%) was recorded in 60-79 years, followed by 45-59 years (31.4%). The lowest mortality was recorded in 5-14 years at 0.1%, followed by 0.2% in 0-4 years. While the officials did not divulge in the risk factors such as comorbidity among the patients, senior city-based experts said that comorbidities are present in over 70% of the cases. “In rest of the cases, it’s either inflammation of the immune system or instances of blood clotting that can cause brain stroke or heart attack. The combination of comorbidities and older age is common in over half the patients,” said a senior doctor. Surat, that crossed 900 deaths on Tuesday, accounted for 22.5% deaths, Vadodara 5.5% and Rajkot 4.4%. Ahmedabad recorded the highest mortality (deaths per 100 cases) at 4.1, followed by Junagadh (3.6), Banaskantha (3.5), Patan (2.7), and Rajkot (2.6). After 36 days of daily death figure in single digit, the second spike was reported in mid-November. November 30 recorded deaths of 20 patients, which was the highest in 97 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/90-of-corona-deaths-are-of-patients-above-45-yrs/articleshow/79518737.cms||Parth Shastri
December 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Gang of cyber fraudsters using fake ID proofs busted||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police have busted a gang of cyber fraudsters who by using the ID proofs of others were involved in duping people of lakhs of rupees. Importantly, by using these ID proofs of other people, the accused were also ensuring that they don’t get traced easily. Keeping this thing in mind, the city police have suggested a few things for the people to avoid getting duped and trapped by the cyber criminals. The modus operandi of these cyber fraudsters, who are a part of an inter-state gang, is that they fraudulently take the copies of Aadhar and PAN cards of the people, further use these IDs to open instant bank accounts (which are opened without verification). Further, they use these bank accounts to either get online loans or to deposit money duped from people by various means in these. The additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), crime, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, said, “The first thing which the police managed to find out is that the accused used to purchase the ID proofs from the other states and also sell ID proofs to them. These accused have links with the SIM card distributors, while some themselves are distributors. So, when people came to them to get new SIM cards, they used to take a copy of their Aadhar card and get their pictures with them. The accused also issued two SIMs, one of which they used to keep with themselves. Mostly, these ID proofs and mobile numbers were sold to cyber criminals.” “The first thing the people have to keep in mind is that they should not share their ID proofs on Whatsapp with anyone. While getting a new SIM they have to ensure that the accused do not keep the copy of their proof with them. Some telecom companies take pictures and some take fingerprints while issuing a SIM card. So, if the person is taking the picture or fingerprints twice, you have to cross check it. Also, it is an advice to residents to try and visit only the customer care stores, rather going to the ones in mohallas. Some of the arrested accused also work as SIM distributors and keep the ID proof of people to be later used in frauds,” she added. Once the accused manages to open the bank accounts, they either get online loans from different online platforms or sell these accounts to other cyber criminals. ADCP Rupinder added that, “One important thing which people must remember now is that no authentic company will ever ask for any ID proof or OTP on a phone call. The accused have done frauds with some Ola drivers by impersonating as Ola officials. At first, they used to book a ride and then call posing as Ola officials by saying that the ride would be confirmed only after sharing the Aadhar card number and the OTP sent on their mobile phones. Further, on their IDs also they have opened bank accounts.” The officer shared that these accounts were further used to commit various frauds in which people were duped of lakhs of rupees. When the police tried to trace the fraudsters, they would only be able to reach those persons whose IDs had been used fraudulently by the accused. So, people have to be very careful while sharing their ID proofs with anyone, she added. Box- Tips to check cyber frauds * Prefer going to customer care stores of the telecommunication companies to get SIM cards, rather than going to vendors * Don’t share your ID proofs on Whatsapp * While sharing ID proofs, ensure that the person does not keep an extra copy of it * Cross check if the SIM distributor asks for picture or fingerprints for the second time * Never share any OTP or any number of an ID proof with any phone caller Box: 7 fraudsters held on Nov 25 On November 25, in a joint operation the cyber cell of Ludhiana police, CIA-II and the counter intelligence department had busted a gang of cyber fraudsters who were part of an inter-state gang of fraudsters and cyber criminals. Besides duping money by availing loans with ID proofs, the accused also used to assist other cyber criminals. With the arrest of these seven accused, the city police had also come to know about a racket which was selling genuine Aadhar and PAN cards of people for merely Rs 100 to the cyber criminals. Those arrested are Vijay Kumar Bittu of Krishna Nagar, Anshuman Singh of Lakshmi Nagar, Sushil Kumar Patel of Mahadev Nagar, Sooraj of Makkar Colony, Sanjay Kumar of Prem Nagar, Rohit of Bhora Colony and Ram Narayan of Lakshmi Nagar. The police have recovered Rs 5.45 lakh, 11 mobile phones, three credit cards, 17 SIMs, two laptops, one scanner, one colour printer, 45 PAN cards, six memory cards and 11 debit cards from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gang-of-cyber-fraudsters-using-fake-id-proofs-busted/articleshow/79517368.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||New RT-PCR rate: Rs 800 for lab test, Rs 1.1k for home collection||Gandhinagar: Following examples of states such as Delhi and Rajasthan, the state government on Tuesday announced reduction in rates of RT-PCR test. Nitin Patel, deputy chief minister and state health minister, on Tuesday said that instead of existing Rs 1,500, now the lab tests will be available across the state at Rs 800. “The sample collection from home earlier cost Rs 2,000. The service will now be available at Rs 1,100,” said Patel, adding that the rates will be effective from Tuesday itself. The deputy CM said that the decision was taken during a core group meeting headed by the state CM Vijay Rupani. “Earlier, the supply of RT-PCR kits was limited. But now with increased production, the availability has increased and the decision to reduce the cost was taken,” said Patel. Wth the state primarily depending on the rapid antigen test (RAT) to find the presence of viral infection, RT-PCR currently accounts for 10% or less in the daily testing. Sub-70K tests for the past five days After the historic high of 91,459 tests in 24 hours on November 25, the second day witnessed 70,820 tests. Afterwards, the number of daily tests never exceeded 70,000. The average test of past five days is 68,572, giving the test positivity rate (finding positive patients per 100 tests) of 2.2. “The testing is open now, and we don’t see any reason to increase it artificially,” said a senior health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-rt-pcr-rate-rs-800-for-lab-test-rs-1-1k-for-home-collection/articleshow/79518740.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kanpur||Light and sound show to start in Kanpur from February next||KANPUR: Kanpurites will regularly witness the light and sound show on Ramayana from February next year. The project worth Rs 5.88 crore, was planned by the state tourism department and NPCC, a Government of India undertaking, is its construction agency. Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar on Tuesday visited the Tulsi Upwan and witnessed the ongoing work of the light and sound show. The representatives of the construction company informed the commissioner that around 90 percent of the work had been completed, and at present testing, trial and finishing was going on simultaneously. They said that the testing would be completed in this month itself because the tourism department had planned to complete the project within the next two months. Besides a theme park hall, the project is equipped with audio visual equipment, LED lights etc. The commissioner said the construction agency NPCC would handle the park and its maintenance in the first year but later either the tourism department or the Kanpur Municipal Corporation would be given the responsibility of the park’s maintenance. At a meeting held with the tourism and archeology departments on November 28 last, the commissioner directed to bring the historical city in the world tourism map and suggested to start a light and sound show at the Nana Rao Park situated in the heart of the city which has a great historical significance. He had also suggested planning a light and sound show at the Tulsi Upvan on Ramayana but the officials present in the meeting informed him that a project of light and sound show was being constructed at the Tulsi Upvan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/light-and-sound-show-to-start-in-city-from-february-next/articleshow/79519872.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Maoist killed in fire exchange near border||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tension prevailed among tribals in Visakhapatnam on the AP side and Malkangiri in Odisha following an exchange of fire between Maoists and security forces at Thotaguda two days ahead of Naxals’ People’s Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) week. ACM cadre Kishore was killed in the encounter and another militia member was injured. Following the exchange of fire, security forces on both sides have intensified combing. Maoists started celebrating PLGA week in 2000 after central committee leaders Syam, Murali and Mahesh were killed in an encounter at Koyyuru forests in 1999. An encounter had taken place between Visakha rural cops and Maoists at Kundram village in October where top cadres were reportedly present. “They (Maoists) would try to celebrate PLGA week...but the recent exchange of fire has decreased their morale. We have also pressed a large number of combing parties into the Maoist-affected areas,” Visakha SP Krishna Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/maoist-killed-in-fire-exchange-near-border/articleshow/79517030.cms||Siva G
December 2, 2020||Vadodara||Labourer stabbed to death over affair with widow in Savli||Vadodara: A labourer was killed in Savli on Monday evening allegedly for having an affair with a widow. The woman’s son Pankaj Solanki and his four relatives were arrested by the local crime branch of Vadodara rural police on Tuesday for the allegedly killing labourer identified as Yogesh Chauhan.According to police, Chauhan was stopped and beaten up at Alindra village in Savli taluka before being stabbed several times when he was returning home with his friend. Chauhan and Solanki had arguments over the former’s affair with the latter’s mother at a wedding. As the verbal altercation was heating up, Chauhan’s friend Jagdish pulled him away and they left from the wedding to go home.Solanki, however, followed them to confront Chauhan again. Meanwhile, Solanki’s other relatives Vipul Parmar, Kalpesh Parmar, Vishal Parmar and Sanjay too reached there. They ganged up to beat up Chauhan and Jagdish. Solanki then pulled out a knife and stabbed Chauhan several times. As they all fled, Jagdish made him sit on the scooter to take him to the hospital. But on reaching a distance, Chauhan’s health deteriorated and an ambulance was called. He was taken to a private hospital in Chhani where he succumbed during treatment.Jagdish lodged a complaint of murder, rioting, assault and criminal conspiracy at Savli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/labourer-stabbed-to-death-over-affair-with-widow-in-savli/articleshow/79516632.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||50K warriors to get vaccine in first phase||Ahmedabad: About 50,000 frontline Covid-19 warriors will be the first recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine when it becomes available for public, said senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials on Tuesday. AMC had convened a meeting of various medical organizations to ask the representatives to draw a list of their staff members. Dr Kirit Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA), said that they have asked the authorities to simplify the enrolment form. “The authorities will also share the online forms which will be filled up by the experts,” he said. The authorities said that while the vaccine will not be available till the second half of the next year, the process of enrolling all the potential recipients in the first phase will take time, and thus the civic body has prepared a uniform format for the organizations to send in their nominations. Dr Jigar Shah, joint secretary of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that over 400 member hospitals and nursing homes have offered their support in distribution and dissemination of the vaccine once it’s available. “As the plan for now is to make it available for free, we will also help in the vaccination programme in our capacity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50k-warriors-to-get-vaccine-in-first-phase/articleshow/79518741.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||AP plans digital water meters to plug loopholes in billing||Amaravati: The government is contemplating switching over to digital meters to collect water user charges from industries. Stating that Andhra Pradesh has one of the lowest water tariffs in the country, industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy said installing digital meters will bring in a more transparent accounting system. Gautham Reddy and irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav held a review meeting on allocation of water to new industries with senior officials of the industries and irrigation departments late on Monday. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, Gautham Reddy said the power, paper, cement, food, fertilisers and chemical industries in the state were tapping a greater share of water under the industries quota. Industries in the Godavari and Krishna deltas and Guntur and Kurnool also used more water. The ministers examined various proposals readied by officials after studying water tariff models followed by Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra and Kerala. An official report stated that AP’s revenues and charges were very low compared to other states. The report suggested continuing the low tariff model to encourage and attract new industries but collecting realistic charges and fixing digital meters. “While many states are collecting water charges based on allocation, AP is collecting charges based on consumption. It is helping industries pay only for the amount of water they use,” said Gautham Reddy. The minister added that there is a need to introduce a transparent billing system to collect user charges from industries. Industries coming to the state will be given full support, he assured, adding the government is ready to allocate water to any new industry setting up shop in any district as per the new industrial policy. Irrigation minister Anil Kumar said they are releasing about 50 to 60 tmc of water to industries from the reservoirs and canals. He said that introducing a uniform system for water charges would help prevent leakages and eliminate the role of middlemen. The minister said he would submit a comprehensive report to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on a new mode of collection of water charges for industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-plans-digital-water-meters-to-plug-loopholes-in-billing/articleshow/79516910.cms||Samdani MN
December 2, 2020||Surat||‘He married me only to get US permanent residency card’||Surat: A non-resident Indian (NRI) woman, settled in Texas, US, has lodged a complaint of harassment against four persons including her husband and in-laws, alleging that he had married her only to get the permanent resident card, popularly called the green card.The woman, Swati Patel, had got married to Jatin Patel in their native village of Umrakh near Bardoli, in December 2016. Swati and her parents have settled in the US where she works in a store in Texas.In the complaint lodged with Surat rural’s women’s police station on Monday, Swati named Jatin, his mother Kalna, father Lallu Patel and one Samir Patel. They were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 498A.Jatin’s parents have also been living in Texas but he was staying in Umrakh. Samir lives in Kumbariya village of Choryasi taluka in Surat district. Samir had arranged the couple’s marriage. Swati told police that she and her parents came to Umrakh on October 4 for a visit. “After our marriage, we had started the visa process to take him with me to the US. Two years later, his formalities were completed and he finally moved there after receiving the green card. As soon as he arrived, I moved to his house and started living with him,” she said.The woman alleged that after they started living together, Jatin and his parents started ill-treating her. She also accused him of beating her.“My husband told me that he married me only to get the green card and now he no longer wants to continue the relationship. He has filed divorce suit in a court there. I only came to know about the divorce suit on receiving summons,” she alleged in her FIR.She also alleged that Jatin has an extra-marital affair with another woman in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/he-married-me-only-to-get-us-permanent-residency-card/articleshow/79517041.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Night curfew, new restrictions hit wedding industry||Ludhiana: As the state government imposed fresh restrictions, including night curfew, that has jolted the wedding industry, those associated with the related businesses are now feeling the heat as a large number of wedding functions are being rescheduled, postponed or cancelled because of the night curfew. Amongst the worst affected are make-up artists, videographers, still photographers and band troupe members. Jaanvi a make-up artist from Model Town, said, “I had more than 12 bookings in this month only, but because of the decision by the state government about the night curfew, more than 50% of my clients are asking for a change of time or refund. It’s so difficult to manage as the time is limited. Now everybody wants there make up to be done in the morning and I am not able to provide services, so many have cancelled their bookings and it is leading me to loss. Last year in this season, I had more than 50 bookings. This year already the work was slow and now this curfew and new restrictions. Hope everything will get over soon.” “Already this year started with a loss and now the government is not letting us live as they want us to end this year in loss too. 2020 is by far the worst of my life, I was happy that I was getting some good photo shoot plans ahead even many had started booking for pre-wedding shoots, but everything is changed now. Now no dates are confirmed and many have even cancelled the shoots,” said Balraj, who owns a photography studio at Dugri Road. Sushil Kumar has a wedding card business. He said, “People now are not preferring physical cards as the government can put up a curfew any time. Most of the clients, who paid advance, didn't get the cards printed and they cleared the payment, which is a complete loss.” Raja, a band owner from Punjab Mata Nagar, said, “Earlier people used to celebrate with full hype and gathering, but because of Covid-19, everything has changed. We used to do at least 50 weddings, but this year first the lockdown came then we refunded the money and now the curfew has been imposed. If the government is imposing the curfew, it should also think about our industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/night-curfew-new-restrictions-hit-wedding-industry/articleshow/79517372.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||State govt in Hamlet dilemma||Ahmedabad: The state government on Tuesday expressed its inability to decide on whether to introduce social service in Covid-19 care centres as punishment for those caught without masks, because it is uncertain about the implementation of such a deterrent policy in the absence of any mechanism.With the state government’s admission that it is not sure about the implementation, the bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala will issue orders on Wednesday on introduction of a deterrence in the form of social service punishment to make people wear masks. On Friday, the Gujarat high court sought the government’s reply to the suggestion that social punishment besides a fine of Rs 1,000 be imposed on those not wearing masks in public places to curb the spread of the virus. In response, advocate general Kamal Trivedi submitted that the government is unable to decide on the issue and will need a week’s time, “The position of the government is just like that of Prince Hamlet of Shakespeare’s play.” When it came to introducing strict social punishment for defaulters, the advocate general told the court that in the last three days, the Covid-19 situation was improving. “There is a visible decline in markers in the matter of supply of oxygen, number of calls received by 104 and 108 services, occupancy of beds and usage of remdesivir injections. Hopefully, the situation may improve by next Monday.” He told the court that the compulsory mask rule is being implemented strictly with police deployed at every crossroads.The judges countered the government’s argument by questioning the relevance of the improving Covid condition to the compulsory wearing of masks. They said that the introduction of such deterrence is crucial now, and this may not be effective a week later with the situation worsening in a few weeks. The advocate general submitted that the government is not sure about whether it will be able to implement this new rule, if introduced. Most government employees are busy with various Covid duties and introduction of social service as punishment for defaulters would require additional staff. It will be practically impossible to identify Covid care centres, identify defaulters and to ensure that they render social service for 10-15 days at these centres. “Government people are wondering how to ensure effective implementation,” he said.The government law officer insisted that the night curfew and strict surveillance and enforcement of the mask rule appear to be working fine with increased efforts over the last three days. However, the judges insisted, “It is up to you to work out modalities. Merely giving challans to defaulters is not enough. There has to be some agency to ensure that the particular defaulter goes to a particular centre and start rendering service. The idea is to create deterrence in the mind of people to avoid recurrence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-govt-in-hamlet-dilemma/articleshow/79518723.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Pawan Kalyan to tour south coastal districts||VIJAYAWADA: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan is set to undertake his first tour of south coastal Andhra Pradesh districts following the outbreak of Covid-19. Pawan Kalyan will be interacting with farmers who have been adversely affected as a result of cyclone Nivar. The Jana Sena party chief had stayed away from public events in wake of the pandemic and had stayed back at Hyderabad. He had recently conducted constituency-wise review meetings and launched the party’s active membership drive. Pawan Kalyan, who has called for immediate support for farmers, has decided to assess the situation at the ground level by interacting with farmers who lost their crop as a result of heavy rains and the cyclone. He will start his tour from Vuyyuru in Krishna district and visit Pamarru, Challapalli, Avanigadda, and Nagayalanka. Later, he will interact with farmers in Guntur district. Party functionaries emphasised that Pawan Kalyan will always back farmers and fight for their demands. “We should keep politics aside and help the farmers who have lost their crop ten days before the harvest. The government should come forward to support farmers in every way possible and release compensation at the earliest,” said party spokesperson, Pothina Venkata Mahesh. Meanwhile, the YSRC termed Pawan Kalyan’s tour as a political yatra. “Our government has announced all support for farmers who lost their crop as a result of cyclone Nivar. Farmers will get their subsidy soon. Agriculture minister Kanna Babu has announced that crops across 18 lakh acres have been damaged and has also announced an action plan,” said Vijayawada Central legislator, Malladi Vishnu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pawan-kalyan-to-tour-south-coastal-districts/articleshow/79517055.cms||Venu Lanka
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Almost all trains up & running at Vizag stn||Visakhapatnam: Services of almost all trains to key destinations from Visakhapatnam railway station have been restored as on Tuesday. This is a major development with the Railways now having restarted several trains following the lockdown in March. Passengers have been advised to check the new timings and train services on the IRCTC and other websites. As per East Coast Railway (ECR) Waltair division’s commercial manager AK Tripathi, 24 trains — originating and terminating — from Visakhapatnam have commenced operations as special trains as on Tuesday, with revised timings. Similarly, 32 trains passing through the station have also resumed operations with details of the same available on online portals. Tripathi told TOI that the division had suffered a 90% loss compared to the corresponding period last year both in terms of revenue and passenger traffic. According to senior railway official, the resumption of services comes in the wake of upcoming Christmas, New Year and Sankranti festivals with Covid-19 control being exercised at the highest level. “Passengers and the railway staff are aware of Covid-19 protocols, particularly wearing masks and social distancing. Since there were hardly any reports Covid-19 cases among train passengers, we have decided to reopen as many train services as we can from this month,” the railway officer said. The railway division suffered losses of nearly Rs 1,500 crore in terms of freight, traffic and revenue from other commercial establishments at the stations. On an average, 140 regular trains pass through Visakhapatnam railway station daily. Services had been suspended soon after the lockdown announcement in March. The average footfall at the station is around 50,000 per day. Train services were resumed on June 1 with Godavari Express running as a special train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/almost-all-trains-up-running-at-vizag-stn/articleshow/79517007.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||418 beds added at IKDRC hospital in just six days||Ahmedabad: A team of IKDRC prepared the 418-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients at under-construction hospital at Manjushri Compound in a matter of six days. State deputy CM and health minister Nitin Patel inaugurated the facility on Tuesday. With the addition, the Medicity encompassing various institutions at Civil Hospital compound have 2,100 beds for Covid treatment. “With spike in cases post Diwali festivities, along with 1,200-bed hospital, GCRI, IKDRC and UNMICRC have also allocated beds for treatment,” he said. “The state government decided to make this hospital active as a precaution.” Out of 418 beds, 336 have oxygen supply, whereas 82 are with ventilator. Out of 80 ventilators the state received as part of PM Cares initiative, 56 were allocated to the hospital. On Tuesday, 661 Covid-19 patients were admitted in Medicity hospitals. With the spike in cases after Diwali, the administration has installed a new 20,000-litre liquid oxygen tank, whereas another tank of the same capacity is kept as reserve. The hospital has also recruited 88 doctors and 175 nursing staff post Diwali, said senior officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/418-beds-added-at-ikdrc-hospital-in-just-six-days/articleshow/79518747.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops earn over Rs 80L from 16,007 challans issued for no masks||Panchkula: Police issued 16,007 challans for not wearing masks in nine months and earned more than Rs 80 lakh. Figures show that residents of urban areas skipped wearing masks as much as their counterparts in rural areas. Maximum violations were reported among commuters. Among semi-urban and urban areas, Chandimandir police station, which is semi-urban, topped the chart by issuing 2,270 challans to offenders. This was followed by Sector 5 police station, which issued 2,031 challans. In semi-urban Kalka tehsil, Kalka and Pinjore police stations issued 695 and 1,648 challans respectively in their areas. Rural Raipur Rani police station issued 1,044 challans to offenders for not wearing masks. The most thickly populated urban sectors with maximum high-rise buildings fall under Sector 20 police station. Police issued 1,062 challans to offenders for not wearing masks. Figures clearly show that there is not much difference in urban, semi-urban and rural police stations where challans are concerned. Data shows that people in urban areas require as much awareness as those in rural areas. A large number of commuters flouted the norms. Traffic police, (Surajpur) issued 3,132 challans while traffic police (urban) issued 2,291 challans to offenders for not wearing masks while driving. Least number of challans were issued in Mansa Devi Complex police station area and by the woman police station, which issued 625 and 409 challans respectively. According to senior officials of Panchkula police, to contain the spread of Covid-19, special awareness drives were conducted by their teams at national highways, markets and all public places using loudspeakers and banners. All units were instructed to issue challans in their respective areas whenever they found people flouting norms. A fine of Rs 500 has been imposed on persons found violating norms. From the 16,007 challans issued in nine months, police earned Rs 80,03,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-earn-over-rs-80l-from-16007-challans-issued-for-no-masks/articleshow/79517381.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||No flattening of Covid-19 curve in city yet||Chandigarh: November saw 19% more Covid-19 cases than October. However, the number of deaths has declined by 17% as compared to October. Experts say that there is no flattening of the curve yet in the city. In October, there were 2,361 Covid-19 cases, while in November the cases have risen to 2,933. There were 62 deaths in October, while November saw 51 deaths. While the number of deaths decreased, Covid-19 cases soared in November. “The rise can be attributed to lack of social distancing. It has been seen that there is no correlation between temperature and the virus and it is too early to blame drop in the temperature for the increase in the number of CASES,” said a public health expert at the PGI. Moreover, there has been 17% increase in the number of samples tested in November as compared to October. According to the data available from the Chandigarh administration, 34,475 tests were done in November, whereas 28,625 samples were tested in October. “More tests can also be the reason behind increase in the positive cases. However, this is what is required so that the transmission can be controlled for the curve to flatten. At the moment, after a steep fall in the cases in October, November saw an upswing again,” said an epidemiologist at the PGI. The increase in the Covid-19 cases in November had been predicted by the health experts before Diwali and as a warning, they had advised to stay indoors and take necessary precautions. “This is the reason why we didn’t start all the OPDs in the departments. People are still not wearing masks or adhering to the social distancing norms. These are the non-pharmacological intervention before vaccines,” said a senior doctor at the PGI. Chandigarh’s total positivity rate varied between 11% and 7% in November, while it was between 8% and 6% in October. “If more cases are picked up by extensive testing, the chain of transmission can be cut. Also, as the cases are surging in Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, ease in movement in the city from these nearby states can also add to the numbers,” said a public health expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-flattening-of-covid-19-curve-in-city-yet/articleshow/79517378.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: December’s first severe air episode likely from Friday||NEW DELHI: The capital’s air quality, currently in “very poor” category, may see “severe” days between December 4 and 7 due to meteorological factors. In November, Delhi had recorded nine “severe” air days. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Tuesday, the city’s air quality index (AQI) was 367. “The air quality is very likely to remain in upper end of ‘very poor’ category owing to unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersal of pollutants in the next five days. There is a possibility of air quality reaching in ‘severe’ category between December 4 and 7,” said Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences. V K Soni, head of Environment Monitoring and Research Centre at India Meteorological Department, said, “A western disturbance is approaching on December 4 and it is predicted that winds may become slow, leading to accumulation of pollutants.” Delhi’s air quality may deteriorate in “very poor” category on Wednesday and is predicted to show slight improvement on Thursday but within the same category. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “An average wind speed of 7kmph was recorded on Tuesday and due to slow wind speed, the dispersion of pollutants was affected. The minimum temperature of 8.1 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, was recorded on Tuesday and low temperature slows down the dispersal of pollutants.” Srivastava said wind direction was predicted to shift from north-westerly to easterly on Friday. “During the transition phase of change in the wind direction, pollutants are likely to get trapped causing further deteriorating in air quality. Calm winds are predicted to prevail over the region after two-three days,” he said. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), a central forecasting body, said boundary layer wind direction is north-northwesterly and partly favourable for stubble fire-related transport. The number of fire counts observed in neighbouring states were 258 while its share in Delhi’s PM2.5 was 4% on Tuesday. “Air quality is likely to worsen in north India due to low temperatures along with calm winds and near-surface inversion. Surface-level winds are calm. Ventilation conditions are likely to slow down,” SAFAR forecast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/keep-mask-handy-decembers-first-severe-air-episode-likely-from-friday/articleshow/79518731.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Businessmen gear up to face second wave||Ludhiana: In the wake of the rising cases of Covid-19 in the city, which probably is being termed as the start of the second wave, businessmen are on tenterhooks. Having been successful in combating coronavirus during the last wave by getting mass testing done and timely detecting of cases among their workers, they have now started taking extra precautions to counter the second wave too. The administration too on the other hand has started a campaign of free testing in factories, online consent forms for which have also been launched. Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “For two weeks there has been a spike in the cases of coronavirus and rise in number of daily deaths too. Already doctors, health experts and senior government officials have issued advisory against the second wave and therefore we are taking precautions to rule out spread of pandemic among our workers. We have started getting our premises sanitised twice daily. In addition to this, we have also fixed fine for not wearing mask inside the workshop and factory.” Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, said, “During the first wave huge losses were caused here as lots of precious lives were lost but luckily factory workers remained safe as we exercised strict safety measures and mass testing was got done by the administration. So, in order to combat the second wave of coronavirus we are taking extra preparations. As a precaution we have stopped accepting physical bills from our vendors and instead we are sending and accepting these in digital mode via Whatsapp or email only. Similarly, in case of incoming parcels or cartons we first sanitise these and keep them at one designated place for at least 24 hours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/businessmen-gear-up-to-face-second-wave/articleshow/79517377.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Curbs in 303 city clusters||Ahmedabad: Today Ahmedabad has over 303 residential clusters including societies that are under micro-containment owing to Covid spread. On Tuesday 12 new residential clusters were put under micro-containment in the city. A few blocks in Sparsh Residency in Science City and La Habitat in Thaltej areas were those that are being named in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) micro-containment list. A whole residential society on Premchandnagar road in Judges Bungalow area which had around 350 houses has been released from micro-containment criteria. “We are examining how and why a few societies including the one in Premchandnagar had reported such a large number of people reporting Covid cases. We suspect that a mass gathering could be the reason behind the infection,” says a senior AMC zonal official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/curbs-in-303-city-clusters/articleshow/79518752.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CPM approves CM’s version, slams Isaac||Thiruvananthapuram: The CPM state secretariat on Tuesday came down on finance minister T M Thomas Isaac for triggering a controversy over the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau’s inspection of KSFE branches. The secretariat meeting concluded that there was no justification for Isaac’s criticism, which should first have been aired within the party forum. CITU president Anathalavattom Anandan was also taken to task for his comments alluding to a conspiracy behind the vigilance action. In an unusual step, the secretariat issued a press release that confirmed the censure of senior leaders without naming them. “Some responses to the raid were used for wrong interpretation and propaganda. They were made when some sections had tried to use the inspection to damage the reputation of a prestigious organization like the KSFE. Such public criticism should have been avoided,” it noted. CM Pinarayi Vijayan presented the full picture of the inspection, including the preliminary investigation carried out by vigilance and the follow-up action. Sources quoted Vijayan as saying the inspection was routine in nature and that objecting to inspections in one department would only lead to similar sentiments from other departments which would render the whole system of vigilance ineffective. It is learnt that Vijayan also pointed out the impropriety on the part of Isaac who didn’t wait to get his facts right before going to the press. Vijayan also objected to some of the FM’s language, including questioning the ‘mental acuity’ of those who had ordered the raid. Isaac explained his position and said he would have expected the courtesy of keeping him in the loop when a major investigation was being carried out in an institution that falls under his portfolio. He pointed out the folly of the timing of the raid, too, by referring to the witch hunt of ED and CBI against a prestigious state project. In the ensuing discussion, the leaders reached the conclusion that Isaac’s was an emotional response, rather than a logical one. They said the controversy should have been avoided, considering the upcoming local-body election. Surprisingly, no leader criticized the CM’s decision to allow a vigilance raid at such a critical juncture. Isaac, who admitted in the meeting that he took an emotional position, later told reporters in Alappuzha that he could have demonstrated more caution. He said he fully accepted the party’s version that such a controversy should have been avoided. To a query, he replied that further issues, if any, would be levelled within party forums after the local-body polls. Anandan told the secretariat he was led into believing the raid was the handiwork of private players who have been baying for KSFE’s blood. The fallout from the controversy once again attested Vijayan’s supremacy in the Kerala unit of the party. Along with acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan, secretary-on-leave Kodiyeri Balakrishnan also attended Tuesday’s meeting. Sources said Isaac backtracked after gauging the mood in the party. But his statement that further questions would be levelled within the party after local-body elections is an indication that the issue is far from being put to rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-approves-cms-version-slams-isaac/articleshow/79517406.cms||B Sreejan
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Schools to start distributing admission forms from today||Chandigarh: It is time for parents to gear up as all private, government and government-aided schools will start giving admission forms for entry-level classes from Wednesday. The same will have to be deposited before December 16 as stated in the common admission schedule. Since schools have already started uploading the admission schedule, Parents must check list of documents to be attached with the admission form and the way the admission form is to be filled and exact number of pages to be filled and submitted. Since every school has different requirement of documents, parents must need to focus on this. This year, with form submission being online only for many schools, it has become even more important for parents to gather all documents in time instead of waiting till the last date as all the documents will have to be filled, attested and arranged in a format asked by different schools. A private school principal stated, “For every parent, it is an important step to gather all documents. Every school has a preliminary round to check forms and to avoid being rejected in the very first step, documentation has to be correct.” Schools have clarified that documents (soft copies) are to be uploaded with the application form. All documents (where applicable) must be legible and attested by a gazette officer or 1st class magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schools-to-start-distributing-admission-forms-from-today/articleshow/79517384.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Zirakpur MC staff halt work, throw garbage in corridors||Mohali: Employees of the Zirakpur municipal council (MC) have thrown garbage in the corridors of the council’s building in a protest on Tuesday. The employees protested and went off-work to press their demands. Employees of Derabassi and Lalru MC have also joined in the protest. They have demanded that they must be paid wages as per the new DC rates and were currently being paid wages as per the 2017 DC rates. The protest is being held by the municipal council sanitation employees union (nagar council safai karamchari union) and Zirakpur contractual employees union members. They also raised slogans against the Punjab government. Union leaders Pardeep Kumar Sood and Ravinder Pal Singh said they will not lift garbage from any part of the city till their demands are not met. They said, “We demand that the MC contractors must pay us wages as per the 2020 DC rates. The new rates have been recently declared by the DC, which must be implemented. We will not return to work unless our demands are not met.” They alleged that as per the new DC rates, employees of the Mohali municipal corporation are being paid wages as per new the DC rates of Rs 9,500 per month, but they are being paid wages as per the old DC rates i.e. Rs 7,500 per month. They also alleged that other councils have already implemented the new DC rates, but the EO of the council was not implementing the new rates. They also alleged that they also not being provided shoes, jaggery, oil and soap, whereas all such amenities are being given to the employees in other councils. Pardeep Kumar Sood said they are working from the past 15 years, but their services have not been regularised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/zirakpur-mc-staff-halt-work-throw-garbage-in-corridors/articleshow/79517395.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Pune||Cured count low, but 84% beds vacant in Pimpri Chinchwad||Pune: More than 84% of the total 4,751 beds were vacant for the treatment of Covid-19 patients across the Pimpri Chinchwad civic areas on Tuesday despite lesser number of recoveries than cases being recorded in the municipal limits in November. A total of 4,011 beds were vacant for Covid-19 patients in the PCMC limits on Tuesday, civic official said, while attributing the huge bed vacancy to almost 50% drop in Covid-19 cases in November as compared to the previous month. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said they had doubled testing post-Diwali, which caused the seeming spike in positive cases. On the bed availability, he said many asymptomatic patients had opted for home isolation, which was one of the reasons why there were ample beds available in the twin cities. When asked about the low recovery count in November, Patil said there was a possibility of pendency of patients, who were under home isolation but had recovered. Once their names were cleared from the patients’ list, the recovery numbers would go up, he said. Patil said, “Our average test per million people is higher in the region. We had conducted over 68,000 tests in November. The surge in the cases that we had expected has not been there, but our daily testing rate has been on par.” He said the positivity rate in the PCMC limits was hovering between 6% and 7%, while it was 12% in October. “So, there are so many indicators that partial recovery is not a matter of concern,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cured-count-low-but-84-beds-vacant-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/79518749.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 2, 2020||Pune||In November, recoveries stay slightly ahead of tally in PMR||Pune: November ended with slightly higher Covid-19 recoveries than new cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) as compared to the previous month when discharges were almost 70% higher than the fresh infections. As many as 18,670 patients recovered in PMR in November as against the addition of 18,607 cases. In October, as many as 61,355 recoveries were recorded in the region as compared to 36,900 new cases, the data released by the district health office revealed. A deeper analysis of the data showed that the Pune municipal limits and the rural areas accounted for more recoveries in PMR in November, while the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits emerged an exception with 4,448 new cases as against 3,766 discharges. The PMC areas recorded 8,268 cases as against 8,410 recoveries in the month, while the rural and cantonment areas reported 5,891 new infections and 6,494 recoveries. Health officials said a majority of the cases were recorded in the last two weeks of November or post-festive season. In the last 14 days of the month, daily cases exceeded recoveries on 12 days. Officials from the PMC’s health department said, “We have already revoked duties of PMPML employees for Covid-19 related works. The zonal and ward offices have been told to stay alert to handle the possible outbreak. Teams are deployed to conduct checks at the market places, malls and restaurants,” a civic health official said. Sources from the health sector said the reduction in sample testing in November as against October was also a reason for the drop in cases. The region had conducted 2.35 lakh tests in October, which slipped to 2.06 lakh in November, registering a drop of 12.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-november-recoveries-stay-slightly-ahead-of-tally-in-pmr/articleshow/79518744.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 fails to stop patients from voting||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad graduates’ constituency on Tuesday registered around 64.5% polling with even Covid-19 patients exercising their voting right. The voter turnout this time was considerably higher than the 2014 election, when the turnout was only 37.47 %, official data showed. The arrival of Covid-19 patients, who were registered as eligible voters, at polling booths caused some anxiety. As per the official data, eight such patients, including three from state-run Covid care facility at MIT and one each from CIPET, Padampura, PES and Kil-e-ark, cast their vote in Aurangabad. Talat Aziz, health officer with the local civic body, said one Covid positive patient had polling booth at Gangapur and was taken there in an ambulance by following all precautionary measures. Aurangabad resident deputy collector Anant Gavhane said the patients cast their vote in the last one hour by wearing PPE kit and maintaining social distancing with others present at booth. “The Covid prevention measures were beefed up during last one hour of polling. The safety of election machinery was given utmost importance during that particular period,” he said. Earlier, around 253 civic health workers carried out sanitization of polling booths within municipal limits of Aurangabad on a regular basis before and during the polling in order to ensure Covid prevention norms. Election authorities appreciated the efforts of the voters to exercise their franchise despite the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic. The fate of total 35 candidates was sealed in the ballot boxes by Tuesday evening. The Aurangabad graduates’ constituency is likely to have straight fight between BJP and MVA, both the camps have made claims of victory by pointing toward the increased voter-turnout. While detail district-wise break-up of voting percentage for Marathwada was not available till Tuesday night , Aurangabad district reported 63% polling as per initial estimate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-fails-to-stop-patients-from-voting/articleshow/79516326.cms||Prasad Joshi
December 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Family of deceased tribesman allege disrespect to body||Kozhikode: The family of a tribesman who died on Sunday after being stung by a swarm of bees has alleged that the authorities have shown disrespect to the body following the delay in conducting postmortem. Gopalan, 69, of Palnada Paniya colony at Poothadi panchayat was taken to Sulthan Bathery Taluk Hospital on Saturday evening and he was referred to DM WIMS Hospital at Meppadi where he died on Sunday morning. Family members said though the body was taken to the Sulthan Bathery hospital for postmortem on Sunday morning, no procedures were conducted till Monday afternoon and they were told that the body has to be taken to Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital for postmortem. The postmortem was conducted at the medical college only on Tuesday and was brought to the colony around 5.30pm on Tuesday. Family members alleged that the body had started to decay due to the delay in conducting postmortem. Had they informed us earlier that the body has to be taken to the Kozhikode medical college, we could have avoided the delay, the relatives said. District medical officer Dr R Renuka said the allegations of showing disrespect to the body were not true. Colony residents detained officials of the scheduled tribe development department who visited the colony. She said the body had to be shifted from Sulthan Bathery Taluk Hospital to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital for postmortem as the two forensic surgeons in the district were on leave. “The body was kept in the freezer till it was shifted to the Kozhikode medical college and no damages had taken place,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/family-of-deceased-tribesman-allege-disrespect-to-body/articleshow/79517426.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Day’s infections climb to 926, exceed discharges||Pune: Daily Covid-19 cases surpassed recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan region (PMR) again on Tuesday, with 926 people testing positive and 768 getting discharged in the region in the last 24 hours. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits recorded 371, followed by the rural areas (335) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas (220). With this, the PMR’s caseload has increased above 3.43 lakh. Of the total cases so far, the highest have been recorded in the PMC areas (1.70 lakh), followed by the PCMC limits (92,551) and the rural as well as cantonment areas (80,926). On Monday, the region had added 531 new patients. The count went up almost by 400 on Tuesday. The recoveries, however, remained almost the same. On Monday, 743 patients were discharged in the region. The number increased to 768 on Tuesday, with the PMC limits reporting 342 recoveries, followed by the PCMC limits (222) and the rural as well as cantonment areas (204). Eighteen patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Tuesday, pushing its toll to 8,418. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the number of active cases increased to 11,588 on Tuesday evening. These included 6,716 patients in home isolation and 4,872 admitted in various hospitals across the region. The rural areas had 3,347 patients admitted in hospitals. In the PCMC limits, as many as 1,029 patients were under treatment at various hospitals, while 480 were in hospital in the PMC limits. The region conducted 8,937 test on Tuesday, pushing total tests above 16.40 lakh. PMC heath officials said as many as 1,195 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits. As many as 408 patients were at critical stage, of whom 242 were on ventilator support in the civic areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-infections-climb-to-926-exceed-discharges/articleshow/79518757.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 2, 2020||Pune||PMC plans audit of civic healthcare infrastructure||Pune: The civic administration is planning to audit the municipal healthcare infrastructure to identify the gaps in the system’s preparedness to tackle any future pandemic. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the audit will help the administration gauge the preparedness of municipal hospitals, civic staff and health department in mitigation of any infectious outbreak. The officials said the good practices followed by the private hospitals will be replicated in the PMC-run hospitals, if found lacking. The workforce part of the healthcare infrastructure will be checked for their preparedness and will be trained, if needed. The officials stated that the result of the audit would be used to draft a comprehensive health policy for Pune — on the lines of the National Health Mission. Officials said a meeting of senior medical officials and private hospitals was held at the corporation’s office earlier this week. “A demand was made to draft a policy for better management of the available resources. Need assessment should be done for building new infrastructure. The civic administration is contemplating a policy, which will focus on future needs of the city,” a senior PMC official said. He said that talks were also carried out to prepare the policy on the lines of NHM. “The best practices used by them should be adopted as guidelines while drafting the local policy,” the official added. As per PMC officials, the coronavirus outbreak has brought fore several issues plaguing the civic healthcare infrastructure. The PMC had to tie-up with 11 private hospitals to provide beds in intensive care units of its hospitals. Lack of adequate numbers of oxygen-supported beds in the PMC-run hospitals hamstrung the efforts of healthcare professionals to address the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-audit-of-civic-healthcare-infrastructure/articleshow/79518763.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Crew-change system takes off at KSRTC||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) implemented a crew-change system in its long-distance services from Tuesday. The new system will ensure that a driver would not drive for more than eight hours on a single stretch. The drivers would get adequate rest after their shift of eight hours, for which the corporation has made arrangements at its premises in Ernakulam, Palakkad, Thrissur and Sultan Bathery. To begin with, the crew change system will become operational on Thiruvananthapuram-Bengaluru; Thiruvananthapuram-Mangaluru, Pathanamthitta-Bengaluru and Kottayam-Bengaluru services. KSRTC chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar said that more such crew changes will be introduced in other services too. The new system is expected to bring much relief as most drivers have to drive for long hours, especially when there are delays due to traffic blocks on roads and other unforeseen reasons. The system is also expected to reduce the stress on drivers who are handling long-distance drives. The continuous work hours were also resulting in road accidents. In the latest incident, a super deluxe bus from Thiruvananthapuram to Kozhikode met with an accident near Ernakulam early on Monday morning, in which the driver was killed. Under the new system, the bus, drivers and conductors will be a part of different depots. Though a driver-cum-conductor system was considered earlier in KSRTC to address the shortage of drivers and conductors and thus optimise available resources, some of them had approached the court against this and obtained a favourable verdict. However, on the basis of the verdict, it was decided to reschedule the working hours of all drivers and conductors. As part of this, the crew change system is being implemented in KSRTC buses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/crew-change-system-takes-off-at-ksrtc/articleshow/79517464.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Bills passed to ban online gaming, increase urban taxes||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh assembly on Tuesday passed Bills to ban online gaming in the state, regulate aqua feed, establish an aqua university and increase taxes in urban local bodies. Home minister Mekathoti Sucharita tabled the Bill banning online games, stating that online betting and gambling is ruining families. TDP legislator Anagani Satya Prasad, while welcoming the Bill, alleged that members of the ruling party were organising cockfights, gambling and other games in his native constituency of Repalle and accused the police and the government of shielding the organisers. Intervening in the discussion, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government has never protected criminals even if they are from the ruling party. He also said the government did not hesitate to take action against a relative of a cabinet minister found involved in crime. He sought to advise TDP members not to politicise the Bill and welcome it instead. Minister for fisheries and marketing, Seediri Appala Raju, tabled two Bills relating to regulation of aqua feed and establishment of an aqua university in West Godavari. The minister said all aqua activities in the state including eight existing aqua labs, polytechnic colleges, research and development centres would be brought under the aqua university. The minister further said the government would establish another 27 aqua laboratories in the state. The government, the minister said, is also planning to establish dedicated police stations in every district to deal with aqua-related crimes. TDP MLA Gadde Ramamohana Rao, who intervened in the debate, requested the government to carry out further research and debate the issue with stakeholders. The Bill, however, was passed in the assembly. Botcha Satyanarayana, minister for municipal administration and urban development, tabled a Bill to convert taxation in urban local bodies on the basis of market value of a property instead of the existing system of rental value. Satyanarayana said most states follow the market value system to levy taxes. The 15th Finance Commission too, the minister said, had mandated changes in urban taxation. TDP MLA Gorantla Butchaiah Chowdary raised strong opposition to the Bill, expressing fear that it would place an additional burden on people and advised the government to reconsider the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bills-passed-to-ban-online-gaming-increase-urban-taxes/articleshow/79517445.cms||Gopi Dara
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh resident welfare associations oppose new tax regime||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAS)—the umbrella organisation of RWAs, has opposed the new methodology of levying property tax introduced by the government. In a press release, president, APFERWAS, Uday Shirname said, “As per the newly amended municipal law, property tax will be levied based on market price of property as against the earlier method of levying tax based on rental value. There is a likelihood of a tenfold increase in property tax, because the new tax gets reviewed and increased annually when the registration department increases the market value of the properties annually. Presently, the tax is levied only on the constructed building, whereas under the new law, tax will be levied also on the land on which the building is built,” said Shirname.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rwa-assn-opposes-new-tax-regime/articleshow/79517492.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Rajkot||Fabrication unit owner kills self over losses||Rajkot: An owner of a brass fabrication unit in Jamnagar committed suicide on Monday evening as his business was struggling due to the lockdown.Dilip Vanjadiya (40) consumed poison at his unit in Udyognagar on Monday evening. When he was found unconscious, he was rushed to GG Hospital where he died during treatment, said cops. On questioning his family members, cops learnt that Vanjadiya was depressed after his business was not doing well even after lockdown was lifted.A case of accidental death was registered based on a complaint given by Vanjadiya cousin, Hemraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fabrication-unit-owner-kills-self-over-losses/articleshow/79516339.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Behera orders probe into unauthorized police canteens||Thiruvananthapuram: It is common for the defence, police and paramilitary forces to run canteens for the welfare of their staff. But a set of police canteens in Idukki flouted all the rules to operate commercial eateries within police station premises and it came under the scanner of higher authorities only after a period of 14 years. Police higher-ups recently noticed that six police stations in Idukki – Thodupuzha, Peermade, Kattappana, Adimali, Munnar and Nedumkandam – are running unlicensed commercial canteens – directly controlled by the respective station house officers (SHOs) – in buildings constructed within the station compounds. The matter came to the notice of the authorities only when a case was registered after a scuffle occurred in the canteen in Nedumkandam, in connection with serving food, last month. On the basis of a report from Idukki SP R Karuppasamy, state police chief Loknath Behera has ordered an inquiry into the functioning of these canteens that began operations in 2006 without a licence. "It has come to our notice now and we are enquiring into their functioning for the past several years. We are looking into the violations, but since there is also a demand from the local people for the functioning of such canteens, we are also exploring if we can regularize them by taking up the matter with respective local bodies and other licensing authorities," said state police chief Loknath Behera. The canteens were constructed at station compounds by raising personal loans from police cooperative society and the buildings were constructed without obtaining permission from respective local body authorities or even the state police headquarters. Though the canteens were meant exclusively for policemen, these were converted into restaurants catering to the public, without obtaining a licence from the local body, health or food safety departments. Several traders and other merchants in the area had even petitioned authorities to stop the commercial canteens operated by the police that flouted all rules; but no action was taken. It is also learnt that the canteens employed staff from outside and police officers took turns to supervise the canteen. They acted as supervisors in civil dress even during their duty hours. Also, no audits were undertaken on the operations of these canteens that are making a profit. No accounts of purchase and expenditure are maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/behera-orders-probe-into-unauthorized-police-canteens/articleshow/79517499.cms||KP Saikiran
December 2, 2020||Pune||Bridal masks to jazz up traditional trousseau with a haute couture twist||Pune: Bridal masks are selling like hot cakes as the wedding season gathers steam despite the pandemic. Top designers, think Masaba Gupta, Shivan & Naresh, and Tarun Tahiliani among others, have also introduced masks as part of their bridal collections. Pune designers aren’t far behind, giving the necessary accessory a haute couture twist.“We get a lot of enquires for custom-made masks for bride and groom. We are making masks from the same fabric and design as their outfits. For brides, we make the mask to match their lehenga or sari and add some hand or machine embroidery work to make it special. For grooms, we match it to their sherwani or suits. The bridal masks can be of velvet, silk, or any fabric that go with the bridal outfits. They come at no extra cost, it is included in the price of the outfits. We also offer complimentary masks to those who come for wedding shopping at our shop,” said Deepak Mane, designer and owner of Tasta Studio.The wedding masks’ function is not just to provide protection, but also look as glamorous as possible. Gauravi Shankar, a soon to-be-bride, said, “For my sangeet function, I am wearing a lehenga made from Banarasi sari and my mask will be made out of the sari body. I will also be wearing a clear face shield, but the mask is more of a keepsake to remember the time and all we had to do to make this wedding possible.” “We received a lot of requests for embroidering initials on the masks of the bride and groom as well as the wedding party. We also packed similar colour masks with the wedding hampers that were sent to close relatives of a client and included designer masks to match with the colour scheme of the wedding,” said designer Joseph Reay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bridal-masks-to-jazz-up-traditional-trousseau-with-a-haute-couture-twist/articleshow/79518772.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nashik||Over 99% voting in Dhule, Nandurbar||Nashik: Voter turnout of 99.31% was recorded in the by-election to one member of legislative council (MLC) seat from Dhule-Nandurbar on Tuesday. As many as 434 of total 437 voters, including members of legislative assembly and the elected representatives of local self-governing bodies in Dhule and Nandurbar, cast their votes. The voting was held at 10 polling stations at all (ten) tehsil offices in Dhule and Nandurbar district between 8 am and 5 pm. Eight polling stations recorded 100% turnout. Other two polling stations — Sindkheda and Shirpur — recorded 96.55% and 97.96% voters turnout, respectively. Dhule collector and returning officer, Sanjay Yadav, said that all precautions had been taken at all polling stations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A team of medical officials had been deployed at each of the 10 polling stations. A by-election for Dhule-Nandurbar seat was held after sitting MLC Amrishbhai Patel quit the Congress to join the BJP. Both Patel from BJP and Congress’ Abhijit Patil are in a straight fight. The counting of votes will take place on December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-99-voting-in-dhule-nandurbar/articleshow/79516370.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||No Ramganj type lockdown planned in Jaipur: Collector||JAIPUR: District collector Antar Singh Nehra on Tuesday said there would be no containment zones in the city as of now and instead a Covid patient’s house would be isolated with the health department pasting a sticker on it. There was confusion among people in the city that another complete lockdown could be announced in some parts of Jaipur. Nehra said, “The definition of containment zone has changed over time. Earlier, it was for kilometres, but with the rising number of cases, we have decided that a patient and his family will be home-quarantined. However, if in a colony or a lane more people are tested positive, we will declare that particular lane or a colony as a containment zone. But a complete lockdown in the city or in a large area is not in the plan.” Till December 15, thousands of marriages will be organised in the city. However, if any lane or a colony is declared as a containment zone, district officials will shut down marriage gardens or any such venues in the colony. Officials said the medical department will paste stickers marking the presence of Covid patient and his family members in a house. The department will also make a list of infected people, their addresses and will send them to respective police stations. The beat constable will keep a watch on the patient and family of the person quarantined. During lockdown, thousands of people went bankrupt and had to shut down their businesses. The unemployment rate, especially in the unorganised sector, shot up and the government had to supply ration on a door-to-door basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-ramganj-type-lockdown-planned-in-city-collector/articleshow/79518784.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Disowned by Kerala CM, Thomas Isaac must quit: Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In the wake of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan disowning his finance minister over his criticism of the vigilance raid on KSFE, Thomas Isaac has lost all moral authority to continue in office, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said on Tuesday.  “The statement from the chief minister has made it clear that he has lost all trust in the finance minister,” said Chennithala. Even the party has distanced itself from Isaac. “How can a minister continue in government when the chief minister and his party has lost all respect and trust in him,’’ he asked. Isaac has been highly critical of investigations at KSFE branches across the state. Along with the CM, his cabinet colleagues have also washed their hands of Isaac on this issue. This means that not just the CM and the party, even his cabinet colleagues have lost trust in Isaac, the Congress leader said. The FM had slammed the raids conducted without his knowledge. Alleging a high-level conspiracy behind the action, Isaac went to the extent of stating that it was carried out to help private players. He even termed the raid as “madness” on the part of vigilance, which comes under the home department headed by the CM. The CM, however, said the raids were based on a classified report about widespread discrepancies and irregularities at the Kerala-government-owned chit fund company. “This means that the raids were conducted with the knowledge of the chief minister and he is also involved in the conspiracy as alleged by Isaac,” the opposition leader said. Ministers G Sudhakaran, E P Jayarajan and Kadakampally Surendran have rallied behind Vijayan on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/disowned-by-cm-issac-must-quit-chennithala/articleshow/79517516.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Over 1.1 lakh frontline workers to get covid vaccine on priority basis in Pune region||PUNE: Over 1.1 lakh frontline workers involved in mitigation of Covid-19 pandemic will receive the vaccine on a priority basis in the Pune Metropolitan Region. The civic and district administrations are finalising the list of “corona warriors”. Besides the doctors and staffers in government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, employees in private hospitals social workers and members of NGOs volunteering for controlling the spread of the virus would be in the list. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials have started collecting details of people working on the ground to control the spread of the virus. They include nurses, ward boys, hospital management officials and doctors. The civic administration has built temporary facilities like jumbo Covid hospitals. The staffers of these facilities will also be considered frontline workers. As per the PMC data, around 15,000 civic employees are involved in various activities related to controlling the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1-1l-workers-lead-jab-list-in-pune-region/articleshow/79518777.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Demand for medical O2 declines by 76% in dist||Pune: The district’s daily demand for medical oxygen has witnessed a 76% drop as on November-end in comparison to what it was in September. Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) assistant commissioner S V Pratapwar told TOI, “The district’s medical oxygen use was 180 tonnes a day in September. At present, the demand is 42 tonnes a day.” He said, “The capacity of liquid medical oxygen manufacturing has increased up to 350 tonnes per day in Pune district from 230 tonnes, as the third plant producing liquid oxygen in Chakan recently started production. The district now has ample oxygen supply to handle any exigencies in the future.” Dr Kapil Zirpe, president of the Association of Critical Care Societies, told TOI, “Around September, the daily Covid-19 cases added to the district were in thousands. This has come down to thousand-odd, or less, on some days. Medical oxygen supplies had hit a shortage when the patient load was massive in hospitals, with many patients being on ventilators. The situation is not the same now.” Zirpe, who is also the department head of neurotrauma unit, Ruby Hall Clinic, Pune, said, “The rise (in terms of magnitude) in cases after Diwali has been relatively less pronounced than that during the days after Ganeshotsav.” Dr Govind Kulkarni, senior consultant physician and principal investigator for ICMR /SII-COVAX Covid-19 vaccine study at the Sahyadri Super Speciality Hospital (Ahmednagar Road), told TOI, “Patients have also realized the importance of seeking early treatment before the disease advances to a more severe level when ventilator support may be required. Hospitalization of Covid-19 patients has decreased, as people with mild symptoms prefer to stay at home and get treated as per doctor’s advice. With the reduction in patient load in facilities, the demand for medical oxygen has also lessened.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-medical-o2-declines-by-76-in-dist/articleshow/79518782.cms||Neha Madaan
December 2, 2020||Rajkot||45-year-old ends life in police lock-up||Rajkot: A 45-year-old man killed himself inside the lock-up of Shapar Veraval police station for unknown reasons in the early hours of Tuesday. Arjun Chamar, who lives on Gondal Road and is a native of Bihar, was nabbed by the parole furlough squad of Rajkot rural police on Monday evening. Chamar, who was booked in a case of attempt to culpable homicide in 1998, had since been on the run. Non-bailable warrants were also issued against him but they were never served. On Monday cops nabbed him near a petrol-pump on Gondal Road and kept him at Shapar Veraval police station for the night. He was to be produced before a judicial magistrate’s court on Tuesday. But on Tuesday morning, the police station officer found him hanging from the lock-up’s iron bar using the bedsheet he was given for sleeping. Police are still unaware as to why Chamar took the drastic step. His body was brought to Rajkot for forensic investigation and a probe is being handled by the deputy superintendent of police of SC/ST Cell. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/45-year-old-ends-life-in-police-lock-up/articleshow/79516357.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP govt slashes Covid RT-PCR test rate by 55%||LUCKNOW: A day after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath suggested that the rate of Covid-19 RT-PCR tests should be brought down further, the state government slashed the rates by over 55%. The rate for the RT-PCR test private labs has been reduced from Rs 1,600 to Rs 700, which is among lowest in the country. The labs have been allowed to charge Rs 900 per RT-PCR test if they collect the sample from the customer's home. The rates are inclusive of GST. The order issued by additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, says that any lab charging more than the prescribed rate, would face penal action under the epidemic act. On Monday, the Delhi government brought down the rate of Covid-19 testing through RT-PCR from Rs 2,400 to Rs 800. A few days earlier, Uttarakhand, too, had reduced it from Rs 1,600 to Rs 850 and Rs 900 (for home collection).  “The rates have been revised in public interest in wake of the increased demand,” said Prasad in the order. The move brought relief to people in the high-burden districts like Lucknow, GB Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut Kanpur, besides non-covid-19 patients and also professionals who need to get themselves tested for work purposes, particularly for inter-state travel. The move will also aid the government's campaign for Covid-19 surveillance, say health department officials Prior to this, the UP government reduced covid-19 testing rates from Rs 2500 to Rs 1600 on September 10. Later on it allowed private labs to add collection charges after the latter resisted. In the beginning, the rate of RT-PCR test at private lab was Rs 4,500 Then on October 30, the medical education department announced that patients suffering with thalassemia and haemophilia will not have to pay anything for coronavirus testing when they went to medical institutions for non-covid treatment. Not only this, the testing of their attendants would also be done free of cost. The government also reduced the rate of Covid-19 testing for cancer and kidney patients on dialysis to Rs 300. For patients of all other illnesses, it was fixed to Rs 600. The decision was meant for all medical institutions and colleges like Sanjay Gandhi PostGraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, King George’s Medical University, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences and so on. Before October 30, patients and their attendants had to shell out Rs 1,500 at these centres for Covid-19 testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-slashes-covid-rt-pcr-test-rate-by-55/articleshow/79519975.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 positivity rate drops further in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday reported 502 new positive cases out of 46,597 samples tested, bringing down the positivity rate to 1.07%. While this is a clear indication of cases on the decline, the threat of a second wave is not over, said health authorities as the GHMC polls came to an end. “While we have earlier recorded 500 cases with 23,000 tests, this is the very first time that 500 cases have been recorded with such a high number of tests. However, this number does not mean that threat of a second wave is no longer there,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health. With the 502 new cases, Telangana’s caseload reached 2,70,318 positive cases so far and with three new deaths recorded, the total count of deaths stands at 1,461. So far, a total of 2,59,230 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The positivity rate in the state declined quickly from over 3% a week ago to 1.07 now, despite the ongoing festival season. Also, the number of active cases in the state has gone below the 10,000 mark, after a gap of four months. On Tuesday, there were 9,627 active cases in the state. Authorities are being extra cautious and will continue to test as many samples as possible, Rao said. Currently, 12,000-15,000 samples are being tested in the GHMC limits, and the remaining are in other districts. “We have recently given higher targets to all districts. Number of samples tested are as per the population in the respective districts,” added the official. Telangana has crossed 55 lakh tests now. Of the 502 positive cases recorded in the state, 101 were in the GHMC limits, 46 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 33 in Bhadadri-Kothagudem and 32 in Sangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-positivity-rate-drops-further-in-t/articleshow/79518780.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Sputnik V clinical trials begin in India||Hyderabad: The clinical Phase II/III clinical trials for Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V have commenced in India following the necessary clearance from Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) said on Monday. The adaptive Phase 2/3 clinical trials, for which JSS Medical Research is the clinical research partner, will be a multicenter and randomized controlled studies that will include safety and immunogenicity studies. The Phase II trials will be conducted on 100 volunteers and Phase III will involve 1500 participants. Dr Reddy’s has also partnered with the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), Department of Biotechnology (DBT), for advisory support and for using BIRAC’s clinical trial centres. Commenting on the development, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories co-chairman and managing director GV Prasad said: “This is another significant step as we continue to collaborate with multiple entities along with the government bodies to fast-track the process for launching the vaccine in India. We are working towards making the vaccine available with a combination of import and indigenous production model.” Currently, 40,000 volunteers are participating in Phase III trials of Sputnik V globally, of which over 22,000 have been vaccinated with the first dose and over 19,000 have received the first and second doses. Recently, RDIF announced the second interim analysis of Sputnik V clinical trials data, which showed 91.4% efficacy for the vaccine on day 28 after the first dose and over 95% efficacy 42 days after the first dose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sputnik-v-clinical-trials-begin-in-india/articleshow/79518787.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven of ten 18-yr-olds take up jobs post lockdown: Report||Hyderabad: Post lockdown, more teenagers are said to be taking up work as seven out of ten 18-year-olds are now working when compared to four out of ten before the lockdown was imposed, revealed a report. When it comes to 18-year-old women, there is not much of a difference as three out of 10 women are said to be working in the post-lockdown period compared to two out of 10 women who were working between March- April 2020. In a survey conducted by Young Lives India, in which 2,754 youngsters aged between 18 and 25 participated, it was also revealed that one in three students are currently unable to attend classes. “Many youngsters, especially 18-year-olds, have started working in the past few months. These students are enrolled in various courses, but are unable to attend college due to the digital divide and are instead working as agricultural or daily wage labourers,” said Renu Singh, country director, Young Lives India. The survey also pointed out that the lockdown caused an increase in self-employment and a shift towards agriculture. The agriculture sector is said to have absorbed a considerable proportion of young workers, possibly in low paid (and easily accessible) occupations. In the survey ‘Listening to Young Lives at Work in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana: Second Call’, which also studied the impact of Covid on mental health and subjective well-being, it was revealed that 11% of the respondents suffer from mild anxiety symptoms, while 10% are suffering symptoms of mild depression. It also pointed out that the pandemic has reduced income and increased expenses in 8 out of 10 households, and that this has also exacerbated pre-existing inequalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-of-ten-18-yr-olds-take-up-jobs-post-lockdown-report/articleshow/79518797.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM counters claims on crop insurance, housing scheme||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and his predecessor N Chandrababu Naidu were engaged in a heated exchange of words in the assembly on the second day of the winter session on Tuesday. The two leaders lost their cool during a short discussion on the housing scheme. After ministers Cherukuvada Sri Ranganadha Raju, Botcha Satyanarayana and Dharmana Krishna Das gave statements on the housing scheme and land acquisition for the same, ruling party MLA Vasantha Krishna Prasad rose to start the debate. At that point, Naidu sought permission to speak on the issue. The chief minister intervened and said the TDP chief was disrupting the House. When Naidu’s turn came to speak, he said it was the TDP government which started the construction of 20 lakh houses and that 10 lakh houses were ready to be distributed by the time his tenure ended. Naidu further alleged that the chief minister has gone back on his promise of giving houses for free to the poor and demanded that the houses be given to the beneficiaries without collecting any fee. Jagan took strong exception to the allegation and accused Naidu of twisting his statement. He said YSRC promised free houses of 350 sq ft to beneficiaries as against the Rs 6.50 lakh loan liability promised by the TDP government. The CM stated said his government would give all 350 sq ft houses grounded during the TDP regime for free. He said his government has prepared 17,436 layouts across the state spread over 68,677 acres. “We have proposed to construct 30,066 houses for the poor, and 15.60 lakh houses would be taken up in the first phase. We have acquired 25,359 acres from private people for the house sites at a cost of Rs 10,150 crore. Nearly 17,500 new habitations would come up in the state, which itself is a record,” the chief minister said. Refuting Naidu’s claims, Jagan said 4,56,929 houses were constructed under NTR rural housing scheme, including 47,120 in urban areas, 91,220 in rural areas under the PMAY scheme, and 8,817 houses for Hudhud cyclone victims. “The TDP government did not even complete these houses and did not pay arrears of Rs 1,410 crore to the contractors. This government is clearing the TDP’s arrears now. We have paid Rs 430 crore already and another Rs 908 crore will be ready for payment in the next couple of days,” the chief minister said. Earlier, the issue of crop insurance to farmers rocked the assembly. TDP legislators alleged that the ruling party was misleading the assembly with false information over payment of premium to insurance companies. Ruling party members countered the allegations, and stated that the government will pay insurance claims to farmers on December 15. The chief minister also countered the TDP’s charges, saying the state government has an understanding with the Centre and insurance companies over the premiums. “We have made all arrangements to pay the insurance amount directly into the bank accounts of farmers on December 15. Blame us and make it an issue if we fail to pay,” Jagan said. As TDP members continued raising slogans seeking a debate on the issue, the CM said a debate on the issue had already taken place and there is no need for repeated discussions. Later, the TDP members, except Naidu, walked out after they were suspended for the day for repeatedly disrupting the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-counters-claims-on-crop-insurance-housing-scheme/articleshow/79517526.cms||Gopi Dara
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Speaker gives nod for probe against Ramesh Chennithala , KM Shaji||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan gave clearance to vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) to undertake a probe against opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and IUML MLA KM Shaji. The speaker gave clearance to probe Chennithala on the basis of the allegations by bar hotelier Biju Ramesh that bribe money was handed over to Chennithala as well, as part of getting bar hotels in the state reopened when the previous UDF government had decided to shut them down. VACB had earlier taken legal advice on whether clearance must be taken from the governor for conducting a probe against Chennithala. But, the agency received the opinion that since Chennithala was not a minister when the alleged incident occurred, clearance from the speaker would suffice. Biju had alleged that of the Rs 10 crore pooled from the bar hotel owners, Rs 2 crore was handed over at Chennithala’s office at KPCC headquarters, Rs 25 lakh was personally handed over to MLA V S Sivakumar and Rs 50 lakh was handed over to then excise minister K Babu. He said that the money was pooled and distributed for not increasing the bar licence fee, he said. Chennithala said the action of the speaker was politically-motivated. The speaker is a doll who is willing to do anything in political games. His mandate is to execute whatever directive the CM gives, he said. The speaker also gave clearance to probe Azhikode MLA Shaji for alleged amassment of wealth, disproportionate to his known sources of income. The vigilance court in Kozhikode had on November 9 ordered that a preliminary inquiry should be conducted against Shaji. The probe was ordered on the basis of a complaint by social worker M R Hareesh that Shaji had amassed huge wealth by using his position as MLA. Meanwhile, the speaker sought more details from the vigilance against Congress MLAs VD Satheesan and Anwar Sadath. Allegation against Satheesan is that he received foreign funds irregularly for the flood reconstruction project, Punarjani, in his constituency. The allegations against Sadath is that there are irregularities in the construction of a bridge in his constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/speaker-gives-nod-for-probe-against-ramesh-shaji/articleshow/79517552.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid speeding digital overhaul of healthcare||Hyderabad: While the healthcare industry has been taking baby steps towards digital transformation, the pandemic has accelerated this transformation. With the healthcare industry following in the footsteps of the transportation and food industries which underwent massive transformation with the rise of online services and existing startups seeing quick growth, digital transformation is here to stay, say industry insiders. While a few corporate hospitals had been offering teleconsultations prior to the pandemic, teleconsultations and online consultations took a giant leap across corporate and government hospitals. “Technology is playing a crucial role in early detection and prevention by identifying high-risk patients. It has also helped in remote delivery of care including assessment and diagnosis of complex symptoms,” said Venkat Peri, CEO of CognitiveCare, which launched an AI-based platform called Maternal Infant Health Insights and Cognitive Intelligence. Meanwhile, health-tech start-ups have gained traction. “We set up in December last year. Post a small halt during lockdown a sudden demand to have services remotely gave us a way and we also got the opportunity to be a part of T-Hub,” said Divya Hegde, co-founder, Oqupi Health Tech Private Limited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-speeding-digital-overhaul-of-healthcare/articleshow/79518806.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid positive body can’t be taken home: Home department||JAIPUR: Even after clear guidelines for cremation and burial of Covid victims, families have been violating rules while performing last rites leading to the threat of virus spread. The rule says families can take the body from the hospital on condition that they can’t take it home. “It is clear that body has to be taken directly for cremation or burial ground. It can’t be taken home. Those who are taking the body home are violating the rules,” said Narayan Lal Meena, secretary of home department. The cremation protocol also says the family or those accompanying the dead has to wear the PPE kits. Also, those performing the final rites has to wear PPE kits. However, all the protocols are being flouted in most of the cases while the administration remains a mute spectator. BJP leader Kiran Maheswari’s body had been flown from Gurugram to her residence at Udaipur. However, it is not known whether the leader turned Covid negative before she breathed her last. She was infected with the virus on October 28 and likelyhood of her being positive was very less. The Covid guidelines issued by the state has caused widespread confusion among citizens. The mention of lockdown in containment zones and going back to robust contact tracing within 72 hours has the left citizens in a tizzy. Reports came in that at several places people started hoarding grains fearing lockdown. “The official document read by me clearly says that lockdown in areas where the number of cases are high. What I know from the daily Covid report is that in Jaipur almost 20 areas are repoting high number of cases. I hope the government clarifies on it,” said Prem Pal Singh, a IT professinal living in Durgapura, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-ve-body-cant-be-taken-home-home-dept/articleshow/79525360.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ajmer||Covid positive body can’t be taken home: Home department||JAIPUR: Even after clear guidelines for cremation and burial of Covid victims, families have been violating rules while performing last rites leading to the threat of virus spread. The rule says families can take the body from the hospital on condition that they can’t take it home. “It is clear that body has to be taken directly for cremation or burial ground. It can’t be taken home. Those who are taking the body home are violating the rules,” said Narayan Lal Meena, secretary of home department. The cremation protocol also says the family or those accompanying the dead has to wear the PPE kits. Also, those performing the final rites has to wear PPE kits. However, all the protocols are being flouted in most of the cases while the administration remains a mute spectator. BJP leader Kiran Maheswari’s body had been flown from Gurugram to her residence at Udaipur. However, it is not known whether the leader turned Covid negative before she breathed her last. She was infected with the virus on October 28 and likelyhood of her being positive was very less. The Covid guidelines issued by the state has caused widespread confusion among citizens. The mention of lockdown in containment zones and going back to robust contact tracing within 72 hours has the left citizens in a tizzy. Reports came in that at several places people started hoarding grains fearing lockdown. “The official document read by me clearly says that lockdown in areas where the number of cases are high. What I know from the daily Covid report is that in Jaipur almost 20 areas are repoting high number of cases. I hope the government clarifies on it,” said Prem Pal Singh, a IT professinal living in Durgapura, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-ve-body-cant-be-taken-home-home-dept/articleshow/79525362.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Covid positive body can’t be taken home: Home department||JAIPUR: Even after clear guidelines for cremation and burial of Covid victims, families have been violating rules while performing last rites leading to the threat of virus spread. The rule says families can take the body from the hospital on condition that they can’t take it home. “It is clear that body has to be taken directly for cremation or burial ground. It can’t be taken home. Those who are taking the body home are violating the rules,” said Narayan Lal Meena, secretary of home department. The cremation protocol also says the family or those accompanying the dead has to wear the PPE kits. Also, those performing the final rites has to wear PPE kits. However, all the protocols are being flouted in most of the cases while the administration remains a mute spectator. BJP leader Kiran Maheswari’s body had been flown from Gurugram to her residence at Udaipur. However, it is not known whether the leader turned Covid negative before she breathed her last. She was infected with the virus on October 28 and likelyhood of her being positive was very less. The Covid guidelines issued by the state has caused widespread confusion among citizens. The mention of lockdown in containment zones and going back to robust contact tracing within 72 hours has the left citizens in a tizzy. Reports came in that at several places people started hoarding grains fearing lockdown. “The official document read by me clearly says that lockdown in areas where the number of cases are high. What I know from the daily Covid report is that in Jaipur almost 20 areas are repoting high number of cases. I hope the government clarifies on it,” said Prem Pal Singh, a IT professinal living in Durgapura, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-ve-body-cant-be-taken-home-home-dept/articleshow/79518810.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath to attend historic listing of LMC bond at BSE||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath flew down to Mumbai on Tuesday to attend the historic listing ceremony of the Lucknow Municipal Corporation bond at the Bombay Stock Exchange on Wednesday. He will also be meeting with several industry representatives to discuss investment opportunities in Uttar Pradesh. The LMC's listing at the stock exchange is the first such listing from the entire northern region. This will pave the way for the government to mobilise additional funding for development works as municipal corporations of Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Agra and Kanpur will be following suit and will be launching their own bonds in the coming months. The Rs 200 crore LMC bond was oversubscribed by 4.5 times when it was launched on November 13, 2020, and closed at 8.5% coupon rate for 10 years. This is the second lowest rate among all municipal bonds launched till date. Once listed, Lucknow will become the ninth city in the country to raise funds through municipal bonds. A government spokesperson said that the funds being raised through the bond will be invested in various infrastructure schemes like water supply and housing which are being implemented under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme. The bonds have been given an AA rating by India Ratings and AA (CE) by Brickworks Rating. Later in the day, the CM is scheduled to hold a meeting with industrialists and bankers which include N Chandrashekhar of Tata Sons, Dr Niranjan Hiranandani of Hiranandani Group, Baba Kalyani of Bharat Forge, Suprakash Chaudhary, CEO of Simmons, S N Subramaniam, chairperson of L&T, Vikas Jain of Capital Services, Sanjay Nair, chairperson of KKR Ltd, Jaspal Bindra, chairperson of Centrum Capital Ltd, Sukaran Singh, CEO and MD of Tata Advanced Systems, Harshvardhan of Tata Defence Technology, Ashish Rajvansh of Adani Defence, Rajat Gupta of Ashok Leyland and TS Darbari, CEO and MD of Texmaco Defence System. “The CM will speak about the investor friendly environment in UP, the steps taken by the government for ease of doing business and especially the work done during the Covid-19 pandemic, especially to attract foreign investors who may be moving out of China,” said a government official. Not only has the government reworked several policies to suit post-Covid investment environment but has also put in place a Post Covid-19 Accelerated Investment Promotion Policy for Backward Regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-to-attend-historic-listing-of-lmc-bond-at-bse/articleshow/79520054.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS legislator Nomula passes away at 64||Hyderabad: TRS legislator from Nagarjunasagar constituency and senior leader Nomula Narsimhaiah passed away on Tuesday due to prolonged illness. He was 64. A three-time MLA, Narsimhaiah joined the TRS in 2013 after quitting the CPM with which he was associated for a long time. He contested from Nagarjunasagar and lost to senior Congress leader K Jana Reddy in 2014 assembly elections. However, he had his revenge when he won from the same seat against Jana Reddy in 2018. Following his death, the state will witness another by-election in the next few months as the Election Commission of India has to fill the vacancy within six months. Recently, Dubbak bypoll was held following the passing away of sitting MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy of the TRS. TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the sudden demise of Narsimhaiah. The CM said his death would be a great loss to the TRS and also to people of his constituency. TRS working president KT Rama Rao, legislative council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy, ministers — G Jagadish Reddy and Satyavathi Rathod — and TRS leaders — Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Gadari Kishore and Karne Prabhakar — condoled the death of the MLA. KTR went to the MLA’s house in Kothapet in the city. He recalled how Narsimhaiah had joined the Telangana statehood movement following a call by KCR. Born in Palem village of Nakrekal mandal in Nalgonda district on January 9, 1956, Narsimhaiah completed his graduation in law from Osmania University and practised as an advocate in Nakrekal and Nalgonda courts before entering politics in 1980s. He joined the CPM following the advice of senior CPM leader Narra Raghava Reddy and served as a mandal praja parishad president between 1987 and 1999. He contested and won from Nakrekal constituency in 1999 and 2004 assembly elections on a CPM ticket. He contested unsuccessfully from Bhongiri Lok Sabha seat in 2009. The senior leader is survived by wife Lakshmi, daughters — Jhansi Rani and Aruna Jyothi — and son Bhagat Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-legislator-nomula-passes-away-at-64/articleshow/79518814.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Lokesh moves privilege notice against SP||Amaravati: Former minister and TDP MLC Nara Lokesh moved a privilege notice against Guntur urban district SP R N Ammi Reddy and lodged a formal complaint with council chairman M A Shariff on Tuesday. Lokesh alleged in his complaint that Ammi Reddy threatened him on social media through a series of tweets when he protested against the arrest of TDP activist Mani Rathnam at Pedakakani village last week. “Rathnam was illegally summoned by Guntur urban police when he made sarcastic comments against local legislator Kilari Rosaiah on social media. When I condemned the police action, the SP directly threatened me through another social media post. If at all the SP had any objection to my comments, he should have approached the legislative council chairman with a complaint and sought permission to initiate action against me. Instead, he directly issued a warning, saying he will take action against me. It amounts to trampling of my rights as an MLC,” said Lokesh in his complaint. The trouble started when Rathnam took to social media and alleged the ruling party is spending huge sums of public money in the name of inauguration of a small compound wall. Following a complaint by local YSRC leaders, Guntur urban police summoned Rathnam and grilled him about his comments against the legislator. TDP national general secretary Lokesh criticised the SP, alleging he was working like a YSRC activist and harassing TDP workers. In response, Ammi Reddy clarified they have not arrested Rathnam. The SP also took strong objection to Lokesh’s comments that police were working like YSRC activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lokesh-moves-privilege-notice-against-sp/articleshow/79517579.cms||Samdani MN
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Dotasra objects to 7-day quarantine||Jaipur: Rajasthan Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra has objected to the home department’s guidelines making the Covid-19 test and 7-day quarantine mandatory for travellers from abroad. Dotasra spoke to the state home department and tweeted that the government would address people’s problems. Responding to his query, a home department official said that the issue raised by the state education department has been noted and soon it will be addressed. As per the guidelines, any visitor coming from abroad needs to either present his Covid test report done in 72 hours followed by the mandatory institutional quarantine. In case the report is not done, the test is to be conducted in Jaipur. “However, we have allowed home quarantine on some selected reasons and for availing this service, the traveller has to inform the authorities in advance,” said Narayan Lal Meena, secretary of home department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dotasra-objects-to-7-day-quarantine/articleshow/79518820.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Rajkot||Four from Mehsana killed in accident in Dwarka||Rajkot: Four residents of Mehsana district died when the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck near Devadhra village of Devbhumi Dwarka district on Tuesday noon. According to police, three men died at the accident scene, while one woman scummed to injuries soon after she was brought to the hospital in Dwarka. The victims were identified as Jaimin Thakor, Pavansinh Bhupatsinh, Mayursinh Rajput and Sonal Rajput. They were returning after offering prayers at Dwarkadhish temple. The truck driver had fled from the spot soon after the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-from-mehsana-killed-in-accident-in-dwarka/articleshow/79516451.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Swapna Suresh, Sarith PS name big sharks involved in currency smuggling’||KOCHI: Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS revealed the involvement of ‘big sharks’ in smuggling foreign currencies out of the country and their alleged involvement would shock ones conscience, stated an order of the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court granting custody of M Sivasankar to customs till 11am on Dec 7 in the gold smuggling case. Sivasankar, who is the 23rd accused in the case, has not been arraigned as an accused in currency smuggling case. The court order said the investigating officer produced three crucial statements of Swapna Prabha Suresh and Sarith in a sealed cover. The statements were taken on Nov 27-28, while they were in customs custody in connection with OR No 13/2020 related to smuggling of foreign currency by an Egyptian national, employed at the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, with their active assistance. The order also stated that the said statements would reveal the involvement of ‘big sharks’ who allegedly manipulated their solemn duties and smuggled foreign currencies. Their names and other details were being withheld to ensure confidentiality. “Their alleged involvement is shocking and intrinsic probe is necessary to corroborate the allegation. As per new revelations, these persons have developed strong nexus with the officials of UAE consulate and operated smuggling activities previously without being caught,” the order stated. The court order further stated that it was significant to note that after recording the statement of Swapna, her call details were checked and call data records of Sivasankar were also verified to ascertain his involvement. “Forensic evidence collected after retrieving the data from his mobile phone, persuaded the investigating officer to hold that Sivasankar was involved in the smuggling operation by way of abetting the mastermind. After retrieving deleted WhatsApp chats and other history, previous statements of the accused were cross-checked. Thus, investigating officer arrived at a conclusion that Swapna had actually given the statement purposefully to exonerate Sivasankar for reasons known to her. In this context, the investigating officer has justifiable reason to arraign Sivasankar as accused,” the court order said. The court further added that the mode of abetment and quid pro quo of smuggling deal required to be investigated for getting more clarity. Sivasankar – who was lodged at Borstal School near Kakkanad district jail – was examined via WhatsApp call on Tuesday. Earlier, he was questioned in custody by Customs for five days and his bail petition will be considered on Thursday. Meanwhile, enforcement directorate is learnt to have started collecting statements from customs about Sivasankar allegedly contacting its officials at the behest of Swapna. This line of investigation, according to sources, was related to alleged smuggling activities that happened as early as April 2019. Sources said statements from at least two customs officials have been recorded by ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swapna-sarith-name-big-sharks-involved-in-currency-smuggling/articleshow/79517591.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Udaipur||Covid positive body can’t be taken home: Home department||JAIPUR: Even after clear guidelines for cremation and burial of Covid victims, families have been violating rules while performing last rites leading to the threat of virus spread. The rule says families can take the body from the hospital on condition that they can’t take it home. “It is clear that body has to be taken directly for cremation or burial ground. It can’t be taken home. Those who are taking the body home are violating the rules,” said Narayan Lal Meena, secretary of home department. The cremation protocol also says the family or those accompanying the dead has to wear the PPE kits. Also, those performing the final rites has to wear PPE kits. However, all the protocols are being flouted in most of the cases while the administration remains a mute spectator. BJP leader Kiran Maheswari’s body had been flown from Gurugram to her residence at Udaipur. However, it is not known whether the leader turned Covid negative before she breathed her last. She was infected with the virus on October 28 and likelyhood of her being positive was very less. The Covid guidelines issued by the state has caused widespread confusion among citizens. The mention of lockdown in containment zones and going back to robust contact tracing within 72 hours has the left citizens in a tizzy. Reports came in that at several places people started hoarding grains fearing lockdown. “The official document read by me clearly says that lockdown in areas where the number of cases are high. What I know from the daily Covid report is that in Jaipur almost 20 areas are repoting high number of cases. I hope the government clarifies on it,” said Prem Pal Singh, a IT professinal living in Durgapura, Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-ve-body-cant-be-taken-home-home-dept/articleshow/79525361.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Move to draw water from river opposed||Coimbatore: A forum of social activists and residents’ association representatives have joined hands to protest against the alleged move to draw water from river Bhavani for various water projects to Coimbatore and Tirupur. The forum - Mettupalayam Drinking Water Protection Committee - has called upon traders in Mettupalayam for a strike on December 4 to show their opposition to the state government’s move to pump water from Bhavani river. The committee members said that there was severe water shortage in places like Mettupalayam, Sirumugai, Karamadai. Though river Bhavani flows in these places, the households located there get drinking water supplied only once in several days. In this backdrop, there are plans to draw water for Tirupur fourth drinking water scheme from upstream Bhavani. Another drinking water project for Coimbatore is also on the anvil with Bhavani as the source. “These projects will aggravate water shortage in Mettupalayam, take ground water level further down and affect farmers. The projects would not benefit much for residents of Coimbatore and Tirupur too once water level goes down at the source in Mettupalayam,’’ the committee members said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/move-to-draw-water-from-river-opposed/articleshow/79518807.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Youth dies in road accident||Hyderabad: A 23-year-old private employee died on Tuesday after a speeding truck rammed into the two-wheeler he was travelling on at Dundigal on Tuesday morning. The deceased, V Tarakeswar Rao, 23, was a resident of Sai Baba Nagar in Suraram, Dundigal. On Tuesday, the deceased’s father Bhaskar Rao lodged a complaint with Dundigal police alleging that his son died in a road accident due to rash driving by a truck driver. Police said that the accident occurred when Tarakeswar was returning home from work on Tuesday morning. “Tarakeswar went to work on Monday night. When he was returning home from his office in Bollarum at 6 am on Tuesday, a speeding truck rammed into his bike near Ullas Dhaba. Tarakeswar sustained critical injuries and died on the spot,” Dundigal police said. After the accident, the accused fled from the spot. Later, Tarakeswar’s colleagues informed his family members about the accident and lodged a police complaint. A case was registered against the truck driver under Section 304-a (causing death due to rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police have launched a manhunt to nab the truck driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/79518822.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM says Centre’s move to talk with farmers has come too late||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that the central government’s decision to invite farmer unions for talks was a “step in the right direction” but added that it has come too late. “Centre’s invitation to farmer unions for talks is a step in the right direction but taken too late. There is a growing concern not only in the country but in other countries as well, where a sizable number of Persons of Indian Origin live, regarding protest of farmers in India,” tweeted Gehlot. The Rajasthan CM also called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the matter. “PM Modi ji must take the lead to resolve this impasse. Farmers’ genuine demands must be met,” Gehlot tweeted. Gehlot’s tweets came after Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expressed his concern about the ongoing farmers’ protests in India. On Monday (local time), Trudeau said Canada will always be there to defend the right of peaceful protest, while speaking during a Facebook video interaction organised by Canadian MP Bardish Chagger to mark Gurupurab or the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. “I would be remiss if I didn’t start also by recognising the news coming out of India about the protest by farmers. The situation is concerning and we’re all very worried about family and friends,” Trudeau said inviting strong reaction from India. Indian said Trudeau comments were “ill-informed” are “unwarranted” especially when pertaining to internal affairs of a democratic country. Farmers are protesting in Delhi and its border areas against the recently passed agriculture laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Samanaya Sangarsh Samiti, conglomeration of farmers unions led by CPM, has decided to organise various kinds of protest against the central farm laws from December 1 to 10. The samiti had called for a partial bandh from 12pm to 2 pm on Thursday, said Sanjay Madhav, spokesperson of the samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-says-centres-move-to-talk-with-farmers-has-come-too-late/articleshow/79518833.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Customs told to report progress every three months||KOCHI: The additional chief judicial magistrate court, here, on Tuesday directed the customs investigation officer in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case to file a progress report every three months till the final report is submitted. The directive was part of an order dismissing the petition filed by Swapna Suresh, a key accused, seeking contempt of court proceedings against customs officers and media for leaking statements provided to the investigation agency. The court, however, directed chief commissioner of customs (preventive), Kochi to take disciplinary action against erring officers whose actions resulted in divulging the petitioner's statement or/any portion that was submitted before court without unreasonable delay and to file a detailed report in a sealed cover. Criticizing the investigative agency, the court said it cannot tolerate such unethical practice on the part of officer/officers that may ultimately harm a fair investigation. “There may be honest officers among them with impeccable integrity. One drop of poison is enough to spoil litres of honey or milk. Is it prudent to proceed with the process of investigation without having a mechanism to at least identify the poison?” the court said. It added that the possibility of a fair trial is remote in the absence of fair investigation. “In this backdrop, it appears that monitoring the process of investigation to rule out the chance of the aforesaid malpractice is inevitable in the interest of justice,” it said. The court also observed that the said leak does not substantially prejudice the due course of any judicial proceedings. “It is necessary to bear in mind that the contempt should be of such a nature that it substantially interferes or tends to substantially interfere with the due course of justice. Therefore, the request of the petitioner to initiate contempt proceedings against respondent is found to be untenable,” it said. The court said all observations in the order are mainly meant to make the investigating agency more alert and active in the manner ultimately helping the trial court to discharge its sublime function of fair adjudication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-told-to-report-progress-every-3-mths/articleshow/79517606.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP workers summoned in minister attack case||Vijayawada: Speeding up the investigation in the murder attempt on transport minister Perni Nani, Krishna district police on Tuesday summoned five more TDP functionaries including the attacker’s elder sister in Machilipatnam. The summoned include Madhireddy Srinu, Vasu, former Machilipatnam market yard chairman P Parabrahmam, TDP district vice-president and elder sister of the accused Badugu Umadevi and a fifth person. According to police, they traced the call data of the attacker Badugu Nageswara Rao to ascertain any conspiracy behind the attack. Officials said they had summoned the people known to the accused to find out the reason behind the murder attempt. The incident happened on Sunday afternoon when the minister was attending the funeral ceremony of his mother. During the time, Nageswara Rao, a mason worker, took out a small trowel and tried to attack him in the abdomen region. Luckily, the weapon struck the minister’s belt buckle. Umadevi, Rao’s elder sister, stated on Monday that her brother had no links with her political party and is involved in his work most of the time. However, TDP sources said Rao was unemployed since before the lockdown due to the new sand policy and indirect curbs on construction activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-workers-summoned-in-minister-attack-case/articleshow/79517595.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||No bugs in facial recognition technology, says state agency||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Technology Services (TSTS) on Tuesday said that the facial recognition technology system for voter verification by the State Election Commission had an accuracy rate of 80%. The TSTS said this in a Right to Information (RTI) Act reply to the Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF). The TSTS also stated that they have no plans to take any steps to improve the accuracy of the system. It added that no bugs were reported in the system. In its RTI reply, The TSTS said, “Artificial intelligence and deep learning technologies are used to compare the photos of voters taken at the polling booth with the existing photo on the EPIC card. The results of the use of facial recognition for voter authentication is satisfactory and the accuracy is 80%. In 20% of the cases, the app could not identify the photos due to issues of date with the department or the base photo being of low quality or old.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-bugs-in-facial-recognition-technology-says-state-agency/articleshow/79518828.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||More flights from Jaipur||Jaipur: As passenger footfall at Jaipur airport is continuously increasing, operators have decided to start new flights to different destinations. On Monday, a new flight to Ahmedabad was introduced while two direct flights to Hyderabad started on Tuesday. Likewise, people of Jaipur would be able to directly fly to Goa from December 6 as an operator has decided to start weekly flights every Sunday. “Indigo has started a flight to Ahmedabad and it is getting good passenger load,” said an officer at Jaipur airport on Tuesday. Two new flights to Hyderabad have also been launched. “Now, we have six daily flight to Mumbai, five flights each are available for Bangalore, Kolkata and Hyderabad. We have four flights for New Delhi, three flights to Ahmedabad, two for Chennai and one each for Pune, Surat, Varanasi, Agra and Guwahati,” said an officer of operations at Jaipur airport. As per the new schedule, IndiGo’s flight to Ahmedabad takes off at 1.40 pm. “For people, especially honeymoon couples planning a vacation in Goa, a direct flight will be available every Sunday from December 6. This flight would depart at 6.30 pm,” said an officer. When contacted on increased frequency and increased number of passengers, airport director Jaideep Singh Balhara said, “Gradually things are improving. Now, we are having a passenger load of almost 8,500 per day which has led various airlines to bring more flights. We are following Covid protocols. Likewise, we have deployed teams which are disinfecting and sanitizing every corner of the airport in every hour on every arrivals and departures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-flights-from-jaipur/articleshow/79518836.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Ganga Expressway to speed up socio-eco devpt in 12 districts||LUCKNOW: The construction of the Rs 50,000crore, over 651km-long Ganga Expressway from Meerut to Prayagraj connecting UP’s western and eastern regions aims to address the indicators of socio-economic backwardness, increase education and employment, fetch more investment through industrial activity and improve manufacturing and service sectors. The Ganga e-way is the latest in the series of expressways launched under chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing a function in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi on Monday, acknowledged Uttar Pradesh as being “now known as express state of the country.” Having already done the financial and technical viability of the project, the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has conducted a special study on the socio-economic impact of the project in the 12 districts it is passing through and has concluded that barring Meerut, which is relatively well off due to its proximity to the NCR, most of the other districts suffer from illiteracy, poor employment, exploitation, agrarian stress and limited industrial activity. “The literacy rate in all the 12 districts is lower than the national average of 74.04%. Seven out of 12 districts have literacy level lower than the state average of 67.88%. Here, better connectivity through this new Ganga Expressway would help in the education sector and thus social well-being also”, said the chief executive officer of the UPEIDA, Awaneesh Awasthi. The analysis points out that the working population is lower than the national average in these 12 districts. In seven out of 12 districts it is lower by more than 5% of the national average. The area is to be supported by more employment opportunity and the project is targeted to improve the level of employment in the region. Focusing on the working population of the region, the UPEIDA’s impact analysis on the Ganga Expressway also highlights that the 12 districts having a high concentration (up to 45-75%) of farm labour, combined with poor employment opportunity, indicates low level of industrial and service sector activity. Significant contribution of these sectors is paramount to higher growth. That the performance of Meerut is better than its neighbouring district is partly on account of stronger transport network and the project will help attract investment in industrial units in the area. Also, the 12 districts have a huge presence of MSMEs, while large and medium industrial units are sparse and good road connectivity is aimed at improving the supply chain and thus influencing the investment decisions. “Apart from this, the Ganga Expressway will heavily change the agriculture activities along the Ganga basin and banks as it would not only provide connectivity to national and international markets through containers and hence better prices for products, but also save huge wastage of perishables”, claimed Awasthi, adding, “the project shall provide the right backbone to expand industrialisation of the region”. Awasthi said that the road will help uplift the backward areas of the region and open gates for equitable growth of all. The other social benefits of the projects include improvement in administration and a better law and order situation, apart from enhanced health and education infrastructure, agriculture, industry, trade and mining and above all, quick appreciation in value of the land adjacent to the proposed road which would benefit thousands of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ganga-e-way-to-speed-up-socio-eco-devpt-in-12-dists/articleshow/79520116.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Man gets Covid-positive son’s bone marrow, stays infection-free||PUNE: A 55-year-old man with a severe form of blood cancer received blood stem cells from his son with active nCoV infection in June and has remained Covid-free for six months now. Doctors associated with the man’s treatment at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said this was the first bone marrow transplant in the country despite knowing the donor’s Covid positive status. Thailand reported a similar case of bone marrow transplant in April this year and the recipient has so far remained Covid-19 free. A doctor said the case signified that Covid did not seem to be transmitted through blood even if the donor was actively infected. Haematologists, however, say this does not mean that infected persons should donate blood. Scientists studying the virus advise against blood donation from infected patients as a precaution. The latest Union government guidelines stipulate that blood can be collected from a person, who has tested positive and recovered from Covid-19, only after 28 days of discharge from a treating facility or the equal number of days after home isolation ends. Covid-19 spreads primarily through droplets generated when an infected person coughs, sneezes or speaks. Touching a contaminated surface and then the eyes, nose or mouth can also cause it. But keeping in view the pressing blood shortage in India, the current riders on the donors need to be reviewed in the light of this case and other global studies. Experts said the Pune case also ruled out the threat of blood transfusion-transmission route, as many asymptomatic Covid-19 carriers might also donate blood. “The patient was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukaemia in January this year. He was admitted for a bone marrow transplant. An emergency bone marrow transplant is what he urgently needed,” said the hospital’s haematologist, Sameer Melinkeri. Chemotherapy is administered for the initial reduction in the cancer cells (disease). This has to be followed by a bone marrow transplant. The day after chemotherapy is completed, one extracts hematopoietic stem cells, or bone marrow, from the donor’s blood and infuses them the same day into the recipient’s blood. “This cannot be delayed since the bone marrow of the patient is already destroyed,” Melinkeri said. In the patient's case, his son was found to be a fit donor. But he started complaining of mild fever a day before the transplant. He tested positive for Covid-19 through the RT-PCR test. The doctors then tested his sister, who was another possible donor. But she too was detected with asymptomatic Covid infection. The patient/recipient was tested the same day and was found Covid negative. Both his children were found infected when the patient was admitted inside the hospital's bone marrow transplant unit. There was no chance of finding another donor. “You need to have a Human leukocyte antigen matched donor. It’s very difficult to find outside the family. Finding an unrelated donor is a long process,” Melinkeri said. The patient’s marrow had been destroyed drastically with a high dose of chemotherapy. If the donor’s cells were not infused immediately, the patient would have died due to complications related to very low blood counts. “We had no choice but to use the donor’s cells despite knowing his Covid infective status,” said Melinkeri, who is also director of bone and marrow transplantation at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. Post-transplant, the recipient was monitored for symptoms and tested for Covid infection. But he did not develop Covid infection and has recovered well. “It has been six months now. The patient is doing well,” Melinkeri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-gets-covid-positive-sons-bone-marrow-stays-infection-free/articleshow/79518847.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: November dip in Covid cases offers a glimmer of hope||KOLKATA: Belying fears of a post-festival spike in Bengal, new Covid cases and fatalities were fewer in November than October. In October, Bengal had reported 1,16,615 new cases and 1,883 deaths. Kolkata had reported 24,876 cases and 496 deaths during the month. In November, Bengal had 1,09,820 new cases with 1,583 deaths. Kolkata, however, reported a slightly higher number of cases — 25,445 — in November than October but with a better discharge rate and less Covid deaths (402). The active Covid case load, too, dropped last month. While the daily average case in Bengal was around 3,500 in November, on Monday it dropped below 3,000 for the first time since August 1. According to experts observing the Covid transmission pattern and trend in the state, compliance with the high court order prohibiting firecrackers and efficient implementation of social distancing norms made a difference in Bengal. The state has already seen the ‘flattening of the prevalence curve’ and it was unlikely to see a major spurt in subsequent weeks, they claimed. “While the sharp drop on Monday may not be sustained, it was not merely triggered by a reduction in the number of tests,” said Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar. The state data also indicates that the Covid fatality rate has improved in Bengal and Kolkata in November. In October, Bengal and Kolkata had a CFR of 1.6% and 1.9%, respectively. In November, Bengal’s CFR slided to 1.4% while that in Kolkata dropped to 1.5%. Kolkata has always had a higher CFR than Bengal. The higher discharge rate was also noticeable in November. Last month, 1,20,825 Covid patients had recovered — 25,545 of them in Kolkata. In October, 1,04,178 had recovered and 22,714 of them were in Kolkata. The result has been obvious. At 24,298, active Covid cases in Bengal was at a 74-day low on November 30. It was last a shade higher on September 17, when the active Covid cases were at 24,336 cases. In Kolkata, the active Covid cases on November 30 was at a 51-day low with 6,437 cases. On October 10, Kolkata had 6,513 active cases. The drop appears more stark given the case surge in Bengal – and Kolkata – late October. It was the muted puja and Diwali celebrations that helped keep transmission in check, according to Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “Everyone had feared a major post-Puja spike but that didn’t happen since people celebrated responsibly. The decision to ban crackers also helped in curbing pollution. This is the time of the year when pollution-triggered ailments strike a substantial section. These patients are more vulnerable to Covid,” said Jain. “We will perhaps see a marginal rise over the next few days but it will not be a dramatic surge. The curve has been flattened and I don’t see it getting altered,” said Dhar. He added that unlike Delhi, Bengal was unlikely to see a rise in the number of positives with the onset of winter. “It’s the pollution in Delhi that led to the spike. In Kolkata and Bengal, we have seen numbers stabilizing in October. Going by the present trend, numbers should start sliding marginally in another fortnight,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/november-dip-in-covid-cases-offers-a-glimmer-of-hope/articleshow/79517614.cms||Saibal Sen
December 2, 2020||Goa||Aleixo writes to CM, says Parrikar rejected rail works||Margao: Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco on Tuesday wrote to chief minister Pramod Sawant pointing out that Sawant’s statements to the effect that former Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar had never rejected the proposal for double-tracking of SWR (South Western Railway) line in Goa were, “completely false of facts, and misleading Goemkars”. TOI had reported that when Sawant was asked if Parrikar had rejected the double-tracking project, Sawant said, “Parrikar had never rejected the project, rather he had written to the Union government highlighting the concerns of the people. Parrikar had pointed out the need to save some houses if these will be demolished for the double-tracking project”. Lourenco pointed out that Parrikar had stated on record his opposition to the double-tracking of the SWR. The Curtorim MLA said that in an interview to a news agency on July 17, 2013, Parrikar was blunt when he stated that he had refused permission for a double-track railway line in Goa. He quoted Parrikar as having said, “I have refused permission to double the track of south western railway in Goa. We don’t want it.” “Parrikar was very clear that the double-tracking is done for transporting coal and hence no such double-tracking would be permitted within Goa,” Lourenco said. “I am once again reminding your good self that the whole business of SWR double-tracking is meant only for the transportation of two toxic and poisonous substances i.e., coal and coke from the Mormugao Port Trust to thermal power plants and steel plants in Karnataka,” Lourenco said in the letter. He urged Sawant to “disallow the dangerous infrastructure projects,” including double-tracking of the SWR line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-writes-to-cm-says-parrikar-rejected-rail-works/articleshow/79518848.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Blame game between Swarna Palace, Ramesh Hosp: Cops||Vijayawada: City police on Tuesday continued to grill Ramesh Hospitals MD Dr Pothineni Ramesh Babu as part of the ongoing probe into the Swarna Palace hotel fire incident. According to police sources, they are yet to gather Ramesh’s submissions pertaining to the MoU signed between Ramesh Hospitals and Swarna Palace for setting up the Covid Care Centre. “We can clearly see that the case has witnessed a lot of blame game between the hotel management and the hospital authorities. We can get a clear picture if we get to see the memorandum of understanding which we are still not getting it despite multiple notices,” a police officer close to the investigation said. During the course of the investigation, Dr Ramesh continued to maintain that the Swarna Palace hotel management was entirely responsible for the accident that claimed 10 lives and injured several others in August. Meanwhile, police are looking into other communications between the managements of Swarna Palace and Ramesh Hospital including WhatsApp chats and audio tapes. Police explain that there was no mutual agreement between the hospital nor the hotel, with each assuming the other responsible. Police will be allowed interrogate Dr Ramesh one more time as per the high court’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/blame-game-between-swarna-palace-ramesh-hosp-cops/articleshow/79517639.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Homemakers, professionals & students from Punjab rally behind farmers’ cause||NEW DELHI: Women farmers, students, doctors and businessmen have come all the way from Punjab to offer their services at the on-going farmers’ protest. Spending the chilly nights in tractor trolleys, deprived of amenities and with little privacy even while bathing, they are gamely engaged in the demonstration, believing only that the protests will usher in a better future. Farmer Neelam Ghuman of Baba Bakala in Amritsar has left her children at home to participate in the protest. They are grown up, but finding it difficult to manage home in her absence, she said, adding, “The success of this movement will decide the future of our kids. They can manage without me for some time, but without income from our crops, life will be difficult for them.” Harinder Pal Kaur Bhutari and her son from the same district are both at the protest. “Living in trolleys is really difficult, but the locals have opened up their hearts to welcome us and even offered us the use of their toilets,” said a grateful Bhutari. “The government is not ready to fix the minimum prices for our maize crops and we were forced to sell them at lower rates. That is why despite this being the peak time for winter sowing, we decided to come here.” To energise the protest, each family from the villages of Punjab has sent at least one family member to Delhi. In between aiding the demonstrators, Paramjeet Singh, 18, of Ajnala in Amritsar finds time to study for his Class XII board exams at Singhu border, braving the poor mobile connectivity in the area. His father is back at home, preparing for the winter crop. “My brother and I serve dinner and lunch to the people and in the afternoons, I prefer to complete my school syllabus,” the teenager said. Singh’s friend and fellow villager Gurpreet Singh Dhillon is similarly preparing for higher studies. “As the only son among the children of my father and his three brothers, I came to Delhi,” he said. Dr Zeba Khan, a resident of Uttam Nagar, west Delhi, puts in 10-12 hours every day at the medical camp set up at Singhu border. “I run a charitable hospital and am associated for a long time with Bhartiya Kisan Samiti,” Khan said. “The farmers have been coming to me for fatigue, digestion problems and pain in their feet. Their problems are probably due to the winter cold and the long distances they have travelled.” She is relieved that so far, no person exhibiting Covid-19 symptoms has shown up, but continues to advise everyone to wear masks. “I think the authorities should provide people with masks and hand sanitisers,” she added. Overhearing Khan, farmer and businessman Beant Singh from Fatehgarh Sahib alleged that the central government was spreading canards about the protest. He asked, “If the central government was so concerned about Covid spreading, why did it choose this time to enact the laws, that too without consulting us?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/homemakers-professionals-students-from-punjab-rally-behind-farmers-cause/articleshow/79518845.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Soon, get subsidized food on UPSRTC buses||LUCKNOW: A Rs 60 meal of four rotis (30gm each), 100gms of seasonal veggies, 150ml of dal and a medium bowl of rice would make the journey by UPSRTC buses a little easier for passengers for whom finding quality food on longer journeys is a challenge. Reacting to complaints by passengers, UP State Road Transport Corporation managing director Dheeraj Sahu has asked regional managers to identify a Yatri Plaza (authorised food joint) within 50km of the regional headquarter instead of 80km. The authorised food outlet should make available the menu set by the corporation at the rate fixed by it. Like, a Rs 50 pack should give five poori, dry veggie and pickle to a passenger or a veg sandwich of two slices or a veg cutlet of 100gms. The menu has to be displayed at the counter along with the rate by the plaza owner. The grading of the plaza has to be done by regional managers every month and report sent to the headquarters. The plaza, besides having other passenger amenities, should have CCTVs in the dining area and the parking yard. There should be no stoppage of buses at unauthorised plazas. On routes with over 300 buses plying daily, two Yatri Plazas have to be authorised by regional managers. There should be a separate plaza for passengers of AC buses. To cut down crowd at the plaza, a separate plaza will be marked each for the Up and Down buses on the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/soon-get-subsidized-food-on-upsrtc-buses/articleshow/79520131.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||416 fresh Covid cases put Patuli on civic radar||KOLKATA: The Patuli-Garia belt, which has been finding itself on and off the city’s containment zone list, is on the civic and police radar once again after a recent spurt in Covid-19 cases. A standalone flat building close to Kazi Nazrul Metro station has been included in the list after seven of its residents tested positive. The area now has a total of 416 active cases. The Patuli Covid testing facility of KMC, which boasts of one of the best organized infrastructure and sees patients from three wards in Garia-Patuli-Ganguly Bagan-Baghajatin, had seen the monthly cases dip from 300 odd to less than 220 before Durga Puja. But the numbers have started shooting up once again. “We are keeping a close vigil on a building that has recently reported seven cases and restricting its residents venturing out. We are also keeping a watch on local markets and shops. We need to bring local traders, vegetable, fruit and fish sellers under a rapid antigen test to determine the level of infection in the locality,” said a KMC health department official. In fact, the proposal to include Patuli in the containment list was made 17 days ago. “We knew that cases were rising here. It is close to a local market, is located near the Sonarpur-Rajpur municipality border and most importantly, it is close to a Metro station. These were the reasons why we thought of bringing it under containment,” explained a police officer. Ward coordinator Arup Chakraborty, however, feels the threat was not alarming as yet though the number of cases has been rising. “The area from where seven fresh cases have been detected is vulnerable to some extent because of its proximity to bordering areas that come under the jurisdiction of Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality. The area is densely populated and dotted with markets. We have intensified our anti-Covid drive in the area,” Chakraborty said. Another ward coordinator of the neighbourhood, Bappaditya Dasgupta, conceded there were reasons to stay alert after the post festive season spike. “It is true that after a short lull, a spurt in Covid cases in select areas of Baghajatin-Patuli belt and Garia has made us alert. We have laid maximum stress on testing. We have been continuing with a rapid antigen test camp that was set up long before the pujas,” Dasgupta said. The effort is paying off. “While the resumption of local train services in the Garia area was our concern, carrying out random rapid antigen tests on vegetable and fish vendors has helped minimize the threat,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/416-fresh-cases-put-patuli-on-civic-radar/articleshow/79517625.cms||Saikat Ray
December 2, 2020||Goa||Borewells: Pollution body inspects Cuncolim factory||Margao: Following up on the Ground Penetration Radar (GPR) survey of several fish meal and fish processing units located in the Cuncolim industrial estate that had indicated the presence of bore wells in several fish meal units at the Cuncolim industrial estate, the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) on Tuesday conducted a physical verification of the premises of United Marine Products and excavated the identified locations. At the United Marine Products site, 10 suspected locations for borewells/chambers/pipes were located within the premises during the GPR survey. Sources said that the team of GSPCB officials confirmed the detection of several borewells at the unit on Tuesday and collected samples of the water discharged into them for analysis. The exercise was conducted by GSPCB in the presence of executive magistrate Raghuraj Faldessai. GSPCB had on November 5 and 6 conducted a GPR survey of four fish meal and fish processing units located in the Cuncolim industrial estate – United Marine Products, Quality Foods, Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries, and Indotech Ice and Cold Storage. In a notice addressed to the four units, GSPCB had said that during the GPR survey, chambers/pits/pipes were identified to be located underground within their premises. For physical verification of the GPR reports, GSPCB had on November 13 conducted an inspection and excavation of the identified locations of some of the units in the presence of the factory representatives. GSPCB records stated that at the Indotech Ice and Cold Storage six borewells were detected, while at Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries, three borewells were found dug. Water samples of each of these borewells were collected for analysis. However, the team was unable to conduct the physical inspection of United Marine Products as the factory management had obtained a stay order form the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/borewells-pollution-body-inspects-cuncolim-factory/articleshow/79518841.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Rajkot||Abhay Bharadwaj, RS member succumbs to nCov||Rajkot: Leading criminal lawyer and BJP Rajya Sabha member, Abhay Bharadwaj (66), succumbed to a three-month battle against the complications of Covid-19 infection, at a hospital in Chennai on Tuesday.Bharadwaj had tested positive on August 31 and was airlifted to Chennai in October after his condition deteriorated. He was also put on artificial lung support. Bharadwaj’s cousin Kashyap Shukla told reporters, “We are making arrangements to get clearance for bringing his body to Rajkot. His cremation will be done here.” Bharadwaj was elected to the Upper House in June along with Sabarkantha’s Ramila Bara. A lawyer by profession and former member of law commission of India, Bharadwaj is survived by a son, two daughters and wife. Advocate Tushar Gokani, who worked with him for nearly two decades said, “He had a cardiac arrest on Tuesday noon and died in the evening.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi also mourned his demise. “Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Shri Abhay Bharadwaj Ji was a distinguished lawyer and remained at the forefront of serving society. It is sad we have lost a bright and insightful mind, passionate about national development. Condolences to his family and friends. Om Shanti,” the PM wrote on Twitter. Expressing grief at his death, chief minister Vijay Rupani said, “Abhaybhai’s demise is a big personal loss to me as well as the party. He was a very good lawyer and committed to the country and society.” Born on April 2, 1954 in Uganda, his family shifted to Rajkot in 1969 and he began his political career with Akhil Bhartiya Vidhyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of BJP. He was the defense lawyer in the 2002 Gulbarg Society massacre and represented 69 accused pro-bono. He represented the Wildlife Trust of India’s PIL challenging translocation of lions from Gujarat to Madhya Pradesh. Bharadwaj was appointed public prosecutor in high-profile murder case of former BJP MLA Jayanti Bhanushali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/abhay-bharadwaj-rs-member-succumbs-to-ncov/articleshow/79516535.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chennai||Panel to collect caste-wise population data across Tamil Nadu soon: Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday said the state will soon appoint a commission to collect caste-wise data of the population and submit a report to the government. The announcement came on a day when the PMK sought to lay siege to Chennai with its protest, seeking 20% reservation for vanniyars. In September, the PMK had demanded the constitution of a commission to identify the beneficiaries of reservation from each caste, including the backward, most backward and the SC and ST communities, and submit a report within three months. The state’s announcement on Tuesday, however, refers to collecting caste-wise data and not beneficiaries. “It was Amma (J Jayalalithaa) who ensured constitutional protection for TN’s 69% reservation. Political parties and caste organizations have been demanding caste-wise surveys from time to time. While TN has been implementing several welfare schemes, it has to ensure that the benefits reach all,” the CM said in his statement. “A case is already pending in the Supreme Court on 69% reservation and we need the caste-wise data to tackle that. There is a need to collect the present day caste-wise quantifiable data and such an exercise has to cover all segments and the entire state,” the chief minister said, while announcing the state government’s intent to appoint a Commission for the purpose. “The entire nation knows how strongly Amma (J Jayalalithaa) stood for social justice. This government, which is functioning in her footsteps, will equally ensure that social justice is delivered to all,” Palaniswami said. “The announcement, about setting up a commission and to cover all castes, is sure to take the wind out of PMK’s reservation sail through which it is seeking to enlarge its political mileage,” said a senior official. “Moreover, by avoiding any reference to PMK or its reservation demand in his two-page statement and dwelling more on the role of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa as a social justice warrior, CM EPS has sought to put PMK, an ally of the ruling AIADMK, in its place,” he said. For its part, PMK announced its intent to launch protests demanding 20% separate reservation for vanniyars, the majority community among the most backward castes (MBCs), from December 1. While the party conducted agitations in 1987 demanding 20% reservation, the DMK government had included 108 other castes while creating the MBC segment and setting aside 20% reservation in 1989.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-panel-to-collect-caste-wise-population-data-across-tn-soon/articleshow/79518844.cms||D Govardan
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Tweet, but don’t vote; IT corridor’s poll truth||HYDERABAD: Several polling stations in the IT corridor wore a deserted look on Tuesday as many failed to exercise their franchise during Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. Despite the majority of MNCs declaring a holiday and many working from home (WFH), the voting percentage failed to improve in this year’s Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. “It looks like many took a long weekend or are being overcautious and not stepping out to vote. They don’t have a problem with going out or ordering food online, but to vote they are afraid of coronavirus. In fact, many were even unaware that this time ballot paper was being used instead of electronic voting machines. We had to send messages out messages about the same to create awareness,” said Amar Pallam, an employee working with AMD India Private Limited, Raheja Mindspace IT Park. Those who managed to vote on Tuesday said that many of their colleagues are of the opinion that these are local elections whose outcome doesn’t affect them directly. Giving a tip or two, techies said that if all elections are conducted during the same time, there will be a drastic improvement in the voting percentage. Quite a few said that not just techies but the majority of the educated are restricting themselves to sharing their opinion only on social media. “They are not ready to take any responsibility or do their bit for the benefit of their locality or country. While many senior citizens who are not even in a position to walk are coming out to vote, for those in the IT industry or other high paying jobs, it has become a herculean task,” said M Narasimhulu, delivery head, Wipro, Manikonda. While a few suggested that unless those who failed to vote are identified and levied some penalty, the voting percentage will not be improved, others said that companies should be given the responsibility of monitoring whether or not their employees exercised their franchise. “Something like not giving loans for next five years for those who failed to vote or any other kind of punishment should be implemented to improve voting percentage,” said Viswam Vemula, former assistant vice president, Polaris Software Lab Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tweet-but-dont-vote-it-corridors-poll-truth/articleshow/79518840.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur & Jodhpur report over 30% of total cases||JAIPUR: A three-member central team will review the pandemic situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur, the two worst-hit districts in the state. With the onset of winter, the situation has worsened in both these districts. Throughout November, Jaipur and Jodhpur have collectively reported more than 30% of the state’s infections. The Centre’s team will interact with secretaries of health and medical education, mission director of National Health Mission other health and administration officials through video conferencing at state secretariat including Jaipur and Jodhpur’s collectors, commissioner of police, principal and controller of medical colleges, commissioners of municipal corporations, chief medical health officers. In the last week of Novermber (Nov 24-Nov 30), out of 20,895 Covid cases, Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively reported 7,679 cases which accounted for 36.7%. In the penultimate week of November, the state had reported 19,182 cases, out of which 6,415 were reported in Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively accounted for 33.4%. From November 10 to 16, the share of Jaipur and Jodhpur in new infections was 38.1%. The Centre’s team will review the situation with the state government officials and health department officials. In the last 24 hours, 19 people lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 2,331 while 2,347 tested positive taking the infected tally to 2,70,410. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (692), Jodhpur (314), Kota (169), Alwar (117), Udaipur (110), Bharatpur (95), Nagaur (93), Ajmer (84), Sriganganagar (75), Dungarpur (68), Jalore (48), Pali (48), Sawai Madhopur (44), Bhilwara (43), Bundi (36), Bikaner (35), Jhunjhunu (30), Barmer (29), Churu (26), Dausa (24), Sirohi (24), Jaisalmer (23), Sikar (20), Rajsamand (17), Banswara (15), Chittorgarh (12), Hanumangarh (10), Jhalawar (10), Tonk (9), Pratapgarh (8), Karuali (8), Dholpur (7) and Baran (4). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 439, with three deaths Jodhpur’s toll rose to 242, two deaths reported in Kota taking its toll to 137, Barmer reported two deaths taking its toll to 40, Ajmer 188th, Bikaner 162nd, Udaipur 96th, Sikar 80th, Tonk 30th, Jaisalmer 21st, Jhalawar 17th and Bundi reported its 11th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-report-over-30-of-total-cases/articleshow/79518928.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||17 district police chiefs among 43 IPS transferred||Lucknow: In a major reshuffle, the state government reshuffled 43 IPS officers, including 17 district police chiefs, on Tuesday. The government has also appointed 10 IPS officers of 2015 batch as district police chiefs. SP Balrampur, Dev Ranjan Verma was transferred to SIT (Lucknow) and has been replaced by Chandauli SP Hemant Kutiyal. Additional deputy commissioner, east zone (Lucknow), Amit Kumar will now join as SP Chandauli. Kannauj SP Amrendra Prasad Singh will go to Sonabhadra in the same capacity. He has been replaced by Fatehpur SP Prashant Verma. Additonal SP, Muzaffarnagar, Satpal, will take over as new district police chief of Fatehpur. SP, Prayagraj (trans-Yamuna), Chakresh Mishra has been shifted to Sambhal in the same capacity replacing Yamuna Prasad, who will join PAC headquarters in Lucknow. SP, Shamli, Nityanand Rai will take over as superintendent of police (intelligence) in Lucknow. He has been replaced by SP (security) in Varanasi, Sukirti Madhav. SP, Gorakhpur city, Kaustubh was appointed as the new SP of Sant Kabir Nagar replacing Brajesh Singh who will join UP 112, Lucknow, in the same capacity. ASP (rural), Shahjahanpur, Aparna Gautam has been made the new SP of Auraiya replacing Suniti who will go to Amroha in the same capacity. SP, Amroha, Vipin Tada has been transferred as Ballia district police chief to replace Devendra Nath who has been shifted to CB-CID, Lucknow. Likewise, Avnish Pandey, SP (rural) in Meerut will join as SP Mainpuri replacing Ajay Kumar who has been shifted to Firozabad. SP, Firozabad, Sachindra Patel has been transferred to ATS (Lucknow). SP (rural), Ghaziabad, Neeraj Kumar has been transferred to Hapur to replace Sanjiv Suman who will join Lucknow police commissionerate. SP Agra (east), Pramod Kumar has been made the new police chief of Lalitpur to replace Mirza Manzar Beg has been transferred in the same capacity to UP Power Corporation. Ashok Kumar Meena who was posted as SP (rural) Saharanpur was made the new SP of Fatehgarh while Abhishek, who was posted as SP (city) Aligarh was transferred to Noida police commissionerate. DCP, Lucknow, Swapnil Mamgain has been transferred to EOW (Lucknow) while DCP (east zone) Charu Nigam has been transferred as PAC commandant, Meerut. As many as 12 other IPS officers of 2016-17 batches serving as ASPs, have also been transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/17-district-police-chiefs-among-43-ips-transferred/articleshow/79520148.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Yet to get fees but schools against de-rostering kids||Kolkata: Past the official deadline, most most city schools are yet to recover substantial arrears from parents but most have softened their stand on removal of kids of defaulters from online classes on December 8 as per the court order and are finding out different ways to negotiate the problem. While some schools have extended the deadline by a month, most on Tuesday said they were no longer insisting on the deadline and keeping it flexible in the hope that parents would pay up because they do not wish to remove kids from classes and be looked upon as organisations that have only business in mind. They, however, stressed that the revised fees and non-payment are combining to give death blows to schools. School managements held meetings till late on Tuesday evening to decide on the future course of action and the rhetoric was against removal of kids. Many schools have long winter vacations. Since online classes would be suspended then, they feel kids should not be removed till then. In the meantime, a contempt appeal against schools has been filed in the Supreme Court along with an application for extension of fee-paying deadline by Vineet Ruia, the petitioner who has been representing the parents’ body in this fight of parents versus schools. This will be mentioned at the hearing of the Calcutta High Court on December 7, when schools have been asked to show that they have complied with the order of October 13 regarding revising fees with a 20% waiver on tuition and session fees. The order also said that parents are to pay arrears by November 30 failing which schools are free to remove kids from December 8. The notice that was posted on the website of Shri Shikshayatan School said that keeping the “paramount interest” of students in mind, the school has extended the deadline to December 31. However, the notice also says that parents are free to shift their wards to institutions of their choice by seeking a transfer certificate. Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ School have also extended the deadline to December 31. “We don’t wish to remove any kid and we are giving another opportunity to distressed parents,” said spokesperson VN Chaturvedi. South Point is not formally extending the deadline but defaulting parents have been requested to pay up by December 7. “Removing a child is the last option after we have given all opportunities to parents to clear dues,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani. La Martiniere schools will keep accepting fees till December 7. “We have received 70% payment and we hope that parents will pay up the rest,” said secretary Supriyo Dhar. St Xavier’s Collegiate School, too, is against removal of kids from school and principal, Father Thamacin Arulappan said that he was grateful to parents for understanding his constraints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/yet-to-get-fees-but-schools-against-de-rostering-kids/articleshow/79517635.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur & Jodhpur report over 30% of total cases||JAIPUR: A three-member central team will review the pandemic situation in Jaipur and Jodhpur, the two worst-hit districts in the state. With the onset of winter, the situation has worsened in both these districts. Throughout November, Jaipur and Jodhpur have collectively reported more than 30% of the state’s infections. The Centre’s team will interact with secretaries of health and medical education, mission director of National Health Mission other health and administration officials through video conferencing at state secretariat including Jaipur and Jodhpur’s collectors, commissioner of police, principal and controller of medical colleges, commissioners of municipal corporations, chief medical health officers. In the last week of Novermber (Nov 24-Nov 30), out of 20,895 Covid cases, Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively reported 7,679 cases which accounted for 36.7%. In the penultimate week of November, the state had reported 19,182 cases, out of which 6,415 were reported in Jaipur and Jodhpur collectively accounted for 33.4%. From November 10 to 16, the share of Jaipur and Jodhpur in new infections was 38.1%. The Centre’s team will review the situation with the state government officials and health department officials. In the last 24 hours, 19 people lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 2,331 while 2,347 tested positive taking the infected tally to 2,70,410. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (692), Jodhpur (314), Kota (169), Alwar (117), Udaipur (110), Bharatpur (95), Nagaur (93), Ajmer (84), Sriganganagar (75), Dungarpur (68), Jalore (48), Pali (48), Sawai Madhopur (44), Bhilwara (43), Bundi (36), Bikaner (35), Jhunjhunu (30), Barmer (29), Churu (26), Dausa (24), Sirohi (24), Jaisalmer (23), Sikar (20), Rajsamand (17), Banswara (15), Chittorgarh (12), Hanumangarh (10), Jhalawar (10), Tonk (9), Pratapgarh (8), Karuali (8), Dholpur (7) and Baran (4). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 439, with three deaths Jodhpur’s toll rose to 242, two deaths reported in Kota taking its toll to 137, Barmer reported two deaths taking its toll to 40, Ajmer 188th, Bikaner 162nd, Udaipur 96th, Sikar 80th, Tonk 30th, Jaisalmer 21st, Jhalawar 17th and Bundi reported its 11th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-report-over-30-of-total-cases/articleshow/79523125.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Arguments against trifurcation of capital continue in Andhra Pradesh high court||VIJAYAWADA: The decision to trifurcate the capital was not taken with bona fide intentions but according to the agenda of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, senior counsel M S Prasad said, arguing on the petition moved by Amaravati Prirakshana Samiti general secretary Gadde Tirupati Rao, on Tuesday. Prasad said the chief minister did not utter a word about shifting the capital before the election but after forming the government, the three capitals issue was brought to the fore with mala fide intentions. The high court bench headed by Chief Justice JK Maheswari, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and Justice Ninala Jayasurya, objected to the argument of secret agenda and attributing mala fide intentions to the chief minister without mentioning the same in the petition. The committees appointed on the matter gave their reports as sought by the chief minister. Prasad pointed out that the statement made by the chief minister on the floor of assembly on three capitals was even before the committees gave their reports. This indicates that both committees prepared their reports as sought by the chief minister, he said. Another senior counsel, GVR Chowdary, who argued the petition moved by former minister Vadde Shobhanadriswara Rao, said trifurcation of the capital deceives farmers who gave up their land. If the government’s move is not stopped, subsequent governments will come up with another proposal to shift the capital somewhere else, he said. Senior counsel Adinarayana Rao said the government’s decisions should be in accordance with constitutional provisions. The government does not have powers to make laws against fundamental principles of the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/arguments-against-trifurcation-of-capital-continue-in-high-court/articleshow/79517653.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 2, 2020||Delhi||With borders under siege, Delhi Police issue list of routes you can take||NEW DELHI: With the city’s borders at Tikri, Jharoda and Jhatikra closed for traffic and Badusarai only open for two-wheelers with limited access due to the protests by farmers, crowding is being witnessed at the other borders connecting Delhi with Haryana. Long traffic jams are being witnessed at Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera. As the farmers at the borders are adamant on staying put till their demands are met, police and traffic officials say they have made all arrangements and will deploy adequate staff if the agitation continues for long. The farmers are planning to block three highways — Jaipur-Delhi highway connecting Gurgaon to Delhi, Hapur-Delhi highway linking the capital with Ghaziabad and Mathura-Delhi highway that connects Faridabad to the city. Commuters from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh faced traffic snarls at the borders on Tuesday as Delhi Police had intensified checking of vehicles. “Security has been tightened and barricades have been placed at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border where farmers have gathered to protest against the farm laws. The farmers protesting at various places in Delhi and Haryana have rejected the central government’s offer to hold talks on December 3 saying that imposing conditions for starting a dialogue is an insult to them,” said an official. Delhi Police has advised people to avoid travelling towards Singhu and Tikri borders as traffic movement is not allowed on these routes. “Singhu border is closed from both sides for all vehicles. Please take alternate route. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GTK Road. Traffic is very heavy. Please avoid Outer Ring Road from Signature Bridge to Rohini and vice versa, GTK Road, NH-44 and Singhu border,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. Traffic AlertSinghu Border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route.Traffic has been diverted… https://t.co/oRrPDWbaNQ— Delhi Traffic Police (@dtptraffic) 1606809140000A traffic police officer said Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala Jhatikera, Badusari, Kapashera, Rajokri NH-8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera were open for travelling to Haryana. A senior police officer said staff from almost all police stations had been deployed, but they would ensure that normal work did not suffer. He added that the staff had been sensitised on handling a situation even if something adverse happened. Watch Delhi: Police issue list of routes you can take as orders remain blocked||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/with-borders-under-siege-police-issue-list-of-routes-you-can-take/articleshow/79518944.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||AMRI annexe Cov unit: Work on in full swing||Kolkata: The Annexe I of AMRI Hospitals in Dhakuria, which received a provisional approval from the state government last month to be used as a Covid unit, could be opened for patients by late-December. It will have a dedicated ICU floor with 68 beds. Ravaged by a fire nine years ago, the building had since been lying unused. The fire department has conducted two inspections of the building and recommended a series of safety measures that are now being put in place. Work is being done on a war-footing to get the structure ready to host the unit in three weeks from now. The building will have a Covid ward and an ICU with a total of 150 beds. While the ICU will have 68 beds, the other two floors will house around 40 patients each. But the floors that had operating theatres and the kitchen will not be used. “We plan to throw open the building in three phases, one floor at a time. First, we will open a non-critical care floor by the last week of this month. It could be followed by the ICU in early January and then the third floor,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. A complete overhaul of the air-conditioning system, ventilation and the existing fire prevention measures have been prescribed by the fire department. Work began in mid-November and could be completed in three more weeks, according to Barua. “While the main lobby is being built from scratch, the air-conditioning system is being installed afresh. Safety norms have changed since the building was last used and we are incorporating the new measures that are now mandatory under the National Building Code of 2016,” he said. He added that the renovation work is being done round-the-clock to get the building ready for the Covid unit by the end of this month. In order to prevent fires, the walls are being made thicker. So far, the building had three-inch walls that are now being converted into five-inch ones. “The renovation is being done under the supervision of engineering, electrical and fire safety consultants. It is being implemented by our technical team that has ensured that no safety norm is ignored,” added Barua. Once the Annexe Covid unit starts rolling, AMRI will ‘rationalize’ its bed distribution between Covid and non-Covid units. With a sharp rise in the number of non-Covid patients, refusals have gone up since Covid units have been taking up space. “While the number of Covid ICU patients hasn’t climbed down, we have seen a drop in non-critical Covid patients. So, if we can accommodate 68 ICU patients at Annexe I, then we will be able to reduce the Covid unit capacity at the corresponding units across our three centres,” said Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/amri-annexe-cov-unit-work-on-in-full-swing/articleshow/79517642.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 2, 2020||Goa||Committee meet postponed to Dec 4||Panaji: The first meeting of the organising committee constituted to have a year-long celebration to commemorate the 60th anniversary of Goa Liberation, was postponed at the last minute even as the opposition had announced boycott the meeting. An official said that as chief minister Pramod Sawant was busy with some programmes, the meeting was rescheduled for December 4. A state-level committee headed by Sawant consisting of members from all political parties besides from other sectors, was announced last week. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/committee-meet-postponed-to-dec-4/articleshow/79518888.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Use Liberation Day funds to revive economy: Kamat||Panaji: Urging the state government to refrain from incurring huge expenditure for the 60th year of Goa’s Liberation on December 19, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat demanded that the anniversary be commemorated by helping the needy. Kamat in his letter to the chief minister Pramod Sawant suggested that the Rs 100 crore which the government wants to spend on celebrations, be directed towards an economic revival package and include involvement of local artists, groups and institutions and that the government must “focus on visionary plans” for the betterment of the state. “The chief minister himself has gone on record stating that the finances of the state are in bad condition. The government is continuously borrowing money to meet with its revenue deficit,” Digambar Kamat wrote in his letter. He pointed out that the government has discontinued with the house building allowance scheme due to financial constraints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/use-liberation-day-funds-to-revive-economy-kamat/articleshow/79518892.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Justice Eswaraiah moves SC against Andhra Pradesh HC probe order||VIJAYAWADA: Former judge of AP high court, Justice Eswaraiah, has moved the Supreme Court challenging the order of the high court on the alleged conspiracy against SC and HC judges. The high court had earlier ordered an inquiry by Justice Ravindran, retired judge of the Supreme Court, to probe into allegations of conspiracy against sitting judges of Supreme Court and AP high court. The high court ordered the inquiry based on a petition moved by suspended judicial officer Ramakrishna, who also submitted a call record of his telephonic conversation with Justice Eswaraiah along with the petition. It was stated in the petition that Justice Eswaraiah made derogatory and abusive comments against sitting judges of Supreme Court and AP high court in the telephonic conversation. Ramakrishna alleged that a bigger conspiracy is being hatched out to malign the image of the judiciary and Justice Eswaraiah has a role in it. He also impleaded in a public interest litigation seeking an inquiry into the death of in-charge registrar general of the high court. He argued that the petition is politically motivated and alleged that there was a bigger conspiracy behind it to malign the image of sitting judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eswaraiah-moves-sc-against-hc-probe-order/articleshow/79517694.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Vaccine Phase III trial to start at NICED today||KOLKATA: State urban development minister Firhad Hakim will volunteer for the Phase III clinical trial of Covaxin in NICED on Wednesday. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday said he will be inaugurating the trials. According to sources, apart from the governor, Swami Shastrajnananda, the Narendrapur Ramakrishna Mission College principal, will also be there in the inauguration. Final regulatory nods are awaited for the two other vaccine trials — Covovax in School of Tropical Medical (STM) and Sputnik V trials in College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital — to start in December, state health officers said. NICED said the Covaxin Phase III trials will start at 11am on Wednesday. “The final analysis of the results will be available after one year follow-up post second dose of vaccination,” the release said. The third phase will involve 1,000 volunteers — 500 getting the actual vaccine while the rest will get placebo shots. The volunteers will get the second shot after about four weeks. Being above 18 years and having been free of Covid infection during the entire pandemic are among the basic criteria to be volunteers. “I will be delighted to be a part of this trial in whatever way I can. If I am found eligible to be a volunteer, I will participate wholeheartedly,” Hakim said. The state is also working to expedite the regulatory approvals to enable STM to begin the third phase trial of Covovax in December. US-based Novovax, Serum Institute of India and ICMR are sponsoring the trial at STM. The institute has been preparing itself even while it was awaiting green signals from regulatory authorities. Efforts are on so that the study can be rolled out by December third or fourth week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-phase-iii-trial-to-start-at-niced-today/articleshow/79517674.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Zilla polls likely this month or Jan, govt to take final call||Panaji: The state election commission (SEC), at a meeting held on Tuesday with the Goa police and both district collectors, decided to hold the zilla panchayat elections this month or in January in consultation with the government. SEC secretary Melvyn Vaz said the recently concluded assembly elections in Bihar had become a benchmark for the organisation of all other polls. “At Tuesday’s meeting, we were checking preparedness to ascertain how quickly we could hold the ZP elections,” he said. All arrangements are in place, Vaz said, adding that ballot papers have been printed, staff have been trained and availability of returning officers has been confirmed. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier said that the ZP elections could be held in December this year, but that the SEC would finalise the date. A government source said that December 12 is a tentative date for the polls. The elections were initially scheduled for March 15, but the state government postponed them to March 22 due to the threat of Covid-19. However, on March 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for the imposition of a ‘Janata Curfew’ two days later, prompting the state government to push the elections to March 24. Despite strong protests from people, Sawant was firm on holding the elections on March 24. But only after Modi intervened and asked Sawant to defer the polls did the state government decide to postpone them indefinitely. The five-year term of the zilla panchayats ended on March 23, before which the new body had to be in place. A total of 203 candidates are contesting the elections for the two local bodies — South and North Goa zilla panchayats — each comprising 25 constituencies. BJP has fielded candidates for 43 seats, while Congress has put up candidates for 38 seats. MGP, which has an informal pact with Congress, will fight the elections for 17 seats. Aam Aadmi Party has fielded candidates in 17 constituencies and NCP in six constituencies. Besides, 79 independent candidates are also in the fray. In August, the SEC had postponed polls to 11 municipal bodies by three months. They were scheduled for October 18. After completing the first phase of voting in Bihar assembly elections, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade had said, “Now zilla panchayat and municipal elections can be held in the state with social distancing and face masks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zilla-polls-likely-this-month-or-jan-govt-to-take-final-call/articleshow/79518951.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Court rejects bail petition of Shiroda murder accused||Ponda: The additional district and sessions court at Ponda has rejected the bail application of Shiroda murder accused Nilay Naik on Monday. At present, the accused is in judicial custody at Colvale central jail. Nilay is the prime accused in the December 2019 Haldai-Shiroda murder case, and he had prayed for bail, arguing that the case cannot be of murder, but should be considered culpable homicide not amounting to murder. But public prosecutor Satyavan Raut Dessai objected to it and pleaded that the accused cannot be granted bail. Considering the arguments by PP Raut Dessai, additional district judge Bela Naik rejected the bail plea. He along with his paternal uncle Suhas Naik, a panch member of Shiroda panchayat in Ponda taluka, had allegedly murdered their neighbour Rajendra Naik, 50. According to the Ponda police record, there was enmity between the co-accused Suhas Naik and the victim Rajendra Naik over the auctioning of a local sluice gate. Nilay turned prime accused as he had attacked the victim with a cricket bat. The victim died the next day due to fatal fracture of his skull caused by an attack of blunt object. Following the death of Rajendra, Ponda police booked Suhas and Nilay for murder. Suhas is presently out on bail granted by the Goa bench of Bombay High Court, said the PP Raut Dessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-rejects-bail-petition-of-shiroda-murder-accused/articleshow/79518935.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||BSF celebrates its 56th Raising Day||Jaisalmer: The BSF celebrated its 56th Raising Day at the Rajasthan Frontier on Tuesday. The force, which was raised to guard the international borders with Pakistan on December 1, 1965 with 25 battalions, has evolved as the largest border guarding force in the world with 192 battalions and presently guards 6,386 km of crucial and sensitive Indo-Pakistan and Indo-Bangladesh borders.The BSF has made 1922 supreme sacrifices and 7,791 bordermen have been critically injured in the line of duty to safeguard the nation. BSF played an important role in liberation of Bangladesh during the 1971 Indo-Pak war. At Jaisalmer, Barmer, Ganganagar and Bikaner, feasts were organised for the border guards. Retired personnel were specially invited and personnel also organised cultural programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-celebrates-its-56th-raising-day/articleshow/79518939.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Micro containment zones covering houses & lanes to be reintroduced in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: While incidents of Covid patients flouting home isolation guidelines and becoming source of spread of infection are rising, the health department in coordination with home department has decided to impose micro containment zones in lanes and colonies which are badly affected due to the virus. The move is aimed at slowing down the growth of infections in the state by taking a host of measures while ensuring that the economic activities are not get affected. “These micro containment zones would be different from the containment zones created in Ramganj or the ruthless containment in Bhilwara and other districts where zone were created in areas covering kilometers of areas during lockdown days affecting large population. These micro containments will cover few houses of the lane so that other people of the area are not affected,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, secretary (health). Thbe state government has roped in home department for ensuring that Covid patients do not flout home isolation guidelines. “Our department will send the list of new Covid persons to the station house officer of the police station of the respective areas. The beat constable will visit the house every three days to ensure that the infected persons is not violating home isolation guidelines,” said Mahajan. At a bigger level, the health department is aiming to reduce the crowd in markets of other public places while keeping a check on unnecessary movement of people. Some of the decisions taken in the direction including limiting the guests at wedding ceremonies and night curfews and imposing section 144 of CrPC. Health department officials said winters are favourable for spread of Covid-19, which is why, they have to take measures to slow down the growth of infection. The health department will also focus on contact tracing. Earlier, contact tracing was done with the involvement of the police department during lockdown days. However, this time around, the health department official will do it over phone and they might also go to neighbouring houses of the infected persons and other people who came in contact with infected persons. “We are focusing on early diagnosis and early treatment to prevent mortalities and also to prevent patients from getting critical after being infected,” said Mahajan. Over the last few days, the graph of active cases have gone up continuously for over 20 days in a row, and taking notice of that, the health department roped in home department to contain spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/micro-containment-zones-covering-houses-lanes-to-be-reintroduced/articleshow/79518974.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Bid to burn man’s body after fatal stabs in Baner||Pune: A 53-year-old man was on Monday found murdered near a dargah along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass in Baner. The Hinjewadi police said some people had stabbed the man to death and also tried to set the body on fire to destroy the evidence. Some people spotted the body of the man on Monday morning and alerted the police. The police found a cellphone number from a half-burnt wallet found on the man. “We took help of the cellphone number to identify him as Sandip Mainkar. He was originally from Sindhudurga district,” assistant inspector of the Hinjewadi police Uddhav Khade told TOI. Khade said Mainkar was unemployed and used to sleep in the vegetable market. “His son, who lodged the first information report , stays with his relatives in Pimpri,” Khade said. The officer said the police were yet to ascertain the reason behind Mainkar’s murder. The suspects stabbed him with sharp weapon and then tried to set him on fire. “However, only his clothes were burnt in the fire,” Khade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bid-to-burn-mans-body-after-fatal-stabs-in-baner/articleshow/79518956.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Surat||Virtual international conference on chemical science held at SVNIT||Surat: Department of Applied Chemistry in Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) have organised a three-day virtual international conference on ‘Chemical Science in Sustainable Technology and Development’ that started on Tuesday. It was organised in association with the department of chemistry, Chung-Ang University, South Korea.Conveners of the conference Bharat Dholakiya, Suresh Kumar and Naved Malek said that the virtual conference will provide a platform for participants to present, share and discuss recent findings of their research covering all areas of chemical sciences. Prof Jaebum Choo of South Korea gave information about a rapid diagnosis kit for detection of SARS and Covid-19 viruses. Prof P L Patel, deputy director of SVNIT delivered the presidential address. Researchers from South Korea, Brazil, Germany, Taiwan, Australia, Spain, Brunei, Saudi Arabia, UK, Lebanon and India will be participating in the conference. Meanwhile, SVNIT also recently organised a three-day international online conference on ‘Gender Equity: Challenges and Opportunities’. The conference was aimed to provide a platform for people of all genders and professions. Professors and researchers from nationals like Nepal, Malaysia and Europe shared their thoughts, ideas and experiences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-international-conference-on-chemical-science-held-at-svnit/articleshow/79517680.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Sajjanar speak: No vote, no benefits||Hyderabad: On a day when nearly 57 per cent of citizens in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) stayed away from casting their vote in GHMC elections, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar on Tuesday night said citizens must be disqualified from enjoying the benefits of different government welfare schemes if he/she does not vote. Speaking to TOI, Sajjanar said he was disappointed with the voter turnout in GHMC election. “A person who has not been responsible enough to step out of the comforts of his home to vote at least once in 5 years, has no right to seek welfare schemes from the government nor should he have the right to demand development. All the benefits enjoyed by citizens shall be linked to their vote. With such a low voter turnout, it clearly defeats the concept of democracy,’’ Commissioner said in a press note. According to him, a large number of government officials and others have come together to facilitate voting, to elect their representatives but the low public turn out defeated their effort. In this election, intense campaigning was done by all main stream political parties for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, with a large number of people attending the rallies and public meetings, but on polling day, a significant number of people stayed away from polling stations. “On the day of Election, citizens’ motto must be Vote First, Everything Next,’’ Sajjanar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sajjanar-speak-no-vote-no-benefits/articleshow/79518880.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||SC decision a rap for Kerala govt: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Supreme Court verdict dismissing the state government’s plea against handing over the Periya double murder case probe to the CBI, is a slap on the face of the state government and the murder politics of the CPM, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said. He said that the government that went up to the Supreme Court and spent crores of rupees from the public exchequer for saving the culprits who are CPM activists, does not deserve any forgiveness. The opposition leader said that the CPM activists brutally assassinated the two Youth Congress activists —Kripesh and Sarath Lal— and when the police investigation took a turn in favour of the culprits the parents of the victims approached the courts seeking a CBI probe. When the government realised that the perpetrators behind the murder would end up in trouble if CBI probed the case, the government decided to appeal against handing over the case to CBI, Chennithala said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said that the decision of the Supreme Court to hand over the case to CBI by dismissing the government’s plea is the victory of justice. He said that when the parents of Kripesh and Sarath Lal pleaded for a CBI probe, the government turned its face against the request. He said that a similar verdict is expected in the Shuhaib murder case in Mattannur. Chandy demanded that in the wake of Supreme Court verdict, the government should immediately recommend a probe by the CBI in the murder of two girl children in Walayar as well. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said that the chief minister is losing his sleep when he hears the name of CBI. If the Periya case is probed honestly, top CPM leaders would be in trouble, Mullappally said. Former KPCC president V M Sudheeran said that the Supreme Court verdict has come as a slap on the government’s move to topple the rule of law. The chief minister has lost the moral right to continue in the post, Sudheeran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sc-decision-a-rap-for-state-govt-oppn/articleshow/79517765.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Crucial mining case likely to come up in SC on Dec 14||Panaji: The crucial mining case, which will decide on the industry’s resumption in the state, is likely to come up for hearing in the Supreme Court (SC) on December 14. Advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI that as per the tentative list, the mining case has been listed for December 14. Twenty-six village panchayats have approached the apex court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. In February 2018, the SC had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases, bringing the entire industry to a halt in the state. Last year, the state government filed a review petition against the order. It also sought to tag the review petition with the one filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037. The mining companies had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court after the high court of Bombay at Goa dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese rule, the appellants (mining companies) were granted mining concessions, which were then converted into mining leases under the act. The SLP had stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead of 1961. The state government had also told the SC that the companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, (MMDR Act), they’re entitled to extend their leases to 2037, but that they would abide by the court’s order. The state had said that the mining concessions were converted into mining leases under the MMDR Act from 1987, and consequently the 50 mining leases would be extended to 2037. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the state government would try to find a solution to the mining imbroglio either through the auctioning of leases or formation of a mining corporation, among other options. “The Centre is for auctioning mining leases,” Sawant said, adding that the auction would be conducted on an all-India level. “We will try to find a solution through auctioning as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/crucial-mining-case-likely-to-come-up-in-sc-on-dec-14/articleshow/79518985.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||They braved odds to cast vote, set example||Hyderabad: At a time when the city recorded a low voter turnout, many who defied the odds turned up at the polling stations to exercise their adult franchise on Tuesday. In spite of post Covid-19 immobility, Raveendhar N, chief environment scientist, Environment Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI), Gachibowli, turned up at a polling booth in Ameerpet to cast his vote. “I was in a serious condition at a private hospital for almost two months. Post Covid-19, I have been unable to walk even for 50 metres. However, I was firm to make it to the polling station using my walker. I was very disappointed to see low turnout at the booth. I wonder why people could not make it when a man like me, who has been immobile for three months could,” said Raveendhar, who posted a picture of himself on a wheelchair on Twitter hoping that it will encourage other able voters. Ditto is the case of Sharad Kumar Singhal, 63, a businessman who turned up at a polling station in Banjara Hills with his fractured leg. Singhal had met with an accident in Nampally just days before Dasara. However, his condition was not a deterrent for him to come out and exercise his voting right. “It has been 45 days that he has not stepped out. However, for the civic polls, he was extremely enthusiastic as he felt that every vote counts. We ensured that all of us take him to the polling booth and help him cast his vote,” Sanjay Singhal, his son, told TOI. Even senior citizens in the age-group of 80-90 years were among active voters at several polling stations. Many others travelled long distance to cast vote. “We voted in GHMC elections, travelling 10 km from our residence. We encouraged our son and daughter-in-law to go and vote too,” tweeted Ramesh Vittal Susirala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/they-braved-odds-to-cast-vote-set-example/articleshow/79518912.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Confusion over electoral rolls triggers tension at polling booth||HYDERABAD: Ziaguda and Naredmet remained tense on Tuesday after people from the locality alleged their names were missing from the electoral list. People from Manekeshwar Nagar near Osmania University and Chandrayangutta also complained about their names going missing. CPI(M) state secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram’s name was also missing from the electoral roll. Ziaguda booth number 38 had 914 names — 657 names were missing in that particular booth, said residents who gathered at the spot. Angered residents lashed out at authorities after they were unable to vote. “I am a resident of Sai Durga Nagar. I have been voting for the last 10 years, but now officials say I can’t cast my vote. There are 12 members in our family and not even one name is on the electoral rolls,” said L Swarna at Ziaguda booth number 38. GHMC released a statement about the missing names. “News pertaining to the names of hundreds of voters being deleted is false. In the revised electoral rolls, of the 914 electors, 268 are in booth number 38, the remaining are in booth number 29, 30 and 31,” read a statement issued by GHMC. Laxmamma from Indira Nagar, Chandrayangutta also rued that her right to vote has been taken away. “Earlier, we could vote, but our names have been deleted now. We are not sure what is the reason for our names being deleted from the list, we are staying in the same house. It’s not only me, the names of several people living in our locality have been deleted,” she said. A senior citizen from a Jubliee Hills ward on condition of anonymity said that despite having an EPIC card, he was not allowed to vote. “I was allowed to vote for the MP election, but now they say I can’t vote as my name is missing,” said the senior citizen, holding EPIC card (voter card) in his hand. His wife successfully cast her vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/confusion-over-electoral-rolls-triggers-tension-at-polling-booth/articleshow/79518937.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Man kills his four kids, injures wife, daughter||PATNA: A 45-year-old man killed his four children and seriously wounded his wife and another minor daughter before making an abortive attempt to commit suicide by consuming pesticide in Siwan district on Monday night. The incident took place at Balha Madanpur village under Bhagwanpur Haat police station area. The accused, Awadhesh Choudhary, attacked his wife and five children with a ‘kulhari’ (axe) when they were sleeping in their house. Four of the five children — Jyoti Kumari (18), Abhishek (14), Mukesh Kumar (10) and Bhola Kumar (8) — died on the spot. His wife Rita Devi (40) and daughter Anjali Kumari (13) survived the attack and were rushed to the Sadar hospital in Siwan from where they were referred to the PMCH in serious condition. “The accused seems to be mentally unstable,” DSP Polast Kumar said. Man felt something ‘unusual’ within self “I felt something unusual within me around midnight. I went inside my house and attacked my wife and five children with a ‘kulhari’,” Polast quoted Choudhary as saying. The DSP said after committing the crime, Choudhary visited a petrol pump in nearby Mora village and tried to contact the DM and SP over phone, but in vain. While returning home, he came across a police patrol vehicle and narrated the incident to the policemen, who didn’t take notice considering him to be ‘mentally unstable’. On reaching home, he consumed pesticide and went to his mother’s place in the neighbourhood and told her about the incident. When Choudhary’s mother raised an alarm, villagers assembled and rushed him and the other family members to a nearby hospital, where four of them were declared dead. Later, police arrested Choudhary, who is undergoing treatment at Siwan Sadar hospital. Locals told the police that Choudhary had been under medical supervision of a doctor, but his treatment discontinued after his father’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-his-4-children-injures-wife-daughter/articleshow/79517071.cms||Ramashankar
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Not applied for HSRP? You could face RTO roadblock||LUCKNOW: The transport department has instructed regional transport offices (RTOs) across the state to ensure that any vehicle brought to the office for any work has HSRP already fixed or the owner has applied for it. The order, for both private and commercial vehicles, came into effect on Tuesday. Vehicle-related work like issuance of fitness certificate, new or duplicate RC, duplicate permit, special or new permit, change of ownership or address, hypothecation termination, among others, will be affected if the vehicle owner has not obtained or applied for high security registration plate (HSRP). HSRP is being installed in all vehicles manufactured before April 1, 2019 as those manufactured after the date already have it factory-fitted. Though the transport department has not issued any order on enforcement yet, there is a provision of fine worth Rs 5,000 in the MV Act on vehicles without the plate. The department has also set varying time periods for private two-wheelers and four-wheelers to get the plate and the third registration mark. Vehicles registered before April 1, 2005 should get it done within four months from the date of the GO issued on October 21. Vehicles registered between April 1, 2005 and March 31, 2010 should get an HSRP within six months of the GO. Vehicles registered between April 1, 2010 and March 31, 2015 within eight months and those registered between April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2019 within 10 months. Vehicle owners will have to apply online at www.bookmyhsrp.com to get HSRP. Application has to be made to the dealer concerned. The department will order a separate order for vehicles whose production has stopped. The state government has not fixed any cost for the plate. Dealers are to charge the same amount as set by manufacturers for new vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/not-applied-for-hsrp-you-could-face-rto-roadblock/articleshow/79520156.cms||Neha Shukla
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||13 areas of Jaipur report half of daily Covid infections||JAIPUR: While the state government is taking strict measures to ensure Covid patients follow home isolation guidelines, 13 areas of the city will be on the radar of the authorities as almost half of the city’s cases are being reported from these areas. These areas are Jhotwara, Mansarovar, Sodala, Malviya Nagar, Vaishali Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Jagatpura, Bani Park, Sanganer, Durgapura, Pratap Nagar, Gopalpura and Vidhyadhar Nagar. Jhotwara remained the worst-hit place in the state with 470 cases being reported from November 18 to December 1, followed by Mansarovar (435) and Sodala (378). The share of 13 places in daily new infections has increased to 48.5% last week (Nov 25-Dec 1) from 43.5% (Nov 18-Nov 24). Health department officials said they will strengthen monitoring of patients under home isolation in the city specially in the worst-hit areas. “We will impose containment orders if an increased number of Covid cases are found in a locality or a building,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. The department will share a daily new infection list with the police daily for strict monitoring of patients. “Members of a patient’s house will not be allowed to step out. The health department officials said that one of the major reasons for the spread of Covid was that even the infected people were found to be going out in public. Now action will be taken against such people under the Epidemic Act,” said Dr Sharma. Currently, the city is accommodating more than 9,000 active cases, out of those around 2,000 are undergoing treatment in hospitals, while the rest are getting treatment under home isolation. Since, they are at their homes, family members step out of the houses. “Those who are in contact of active cases should also take precautions and should not step out of the houses without precautions. Even the patient under home isolation should inform the health authorities and arrange ambulance, if they need to go to hospital,” said a health department official. The health department is taking all the possible measures to slow down infection growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-areas-of-city-report-half-of-daily-covid-infections/articleshow/79519006.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Pune||PCMC health department eyes 5-star rating||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The health department of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is hoping for a 5-star rating in the 2021 Swachh Survekshan. Civic chief Shravan Hardikar said they had tried for such a rating last year but were denied points due to lack of a refuse-derived fuel (RDF) plant. “We have identified the space for the RDF plant and work is underway,” he said. A civic official said that RDF is a fuel produced from different types of waste such as municipal solid waste (MSW), industrial waste or commercial waste. The Pimpri Chinchwad city had secured 24th overall rank in the country and seventh in the state this year in Swachh Survekshan 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-health-dept-eyes-5-star-rating/articleshow/79518979.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Activists raise alarm over animals dying of bomb snares in forests||Panaji: The recent death of a dog due to a bomb snare at Karmal is not an isolated incident, but one among many, said People For Animals. In a letter to the Goa police, forest department, department of animal husbandry and the collector, they pointed out that people living in the forests near Agonda have been hearing blasts at all hours, with sightings of several injured animals. The illegal and dangerous practice of planting explosives across forest areas in the Canacona taluka, they said is for hunting wild boars. Belonging to conservationist Alex Carpenter, the dog named Una, died on November 11 from a bomb snare, somewhere in the Padi Range, Karmal Ghat, near Agonda. PFA pointed out that her death tragically resonates with the case of elephant Saumya who was killed in Kerala in May this year, by eating a fruit snare with firecrackers fitted in it. “This horrific practice of using firecrackers and other explosives – as snares, is largely used to kill wild boars and other protected animals in the forests. Not just in Kerala, but evidently in Goa as well.” PFA said adding that a set of interviews with different affected members of the community conducted by Alok Hisarwala Gupta, a legal associate with PFA-Goa, revealed several such tragic incidents (see graphics). PFA pointed out that all animals in the forest are protected under the scheme and schedules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 (WPA) especially against any form of hunting. The law under section 16(a) defines ‘snaring’ as a form of a banned hunting activity. They demanded that an immediate task force shall be formed comprising of police, forest officials and members from the animal husbandry and district collector’s office, to canvass the entire forest range that runs between Shrishtal, Agonda and Gullem. Also, that a dedicated sensitization program, with effective dialogue and training, must be set up across the concerned village panchayats in Canacona to put an end to the dangerous practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/activists-raise-alarm-over-animals-dying-of-bomb-snares-in-forests/articleshow/79518978.cms||Nida Sayed
December 2, 2020||Goa||Assam native held for murder in Goa||MARGAO: With the arrest of Lakshi Basumatary, 45, Cuncolim police cracked the murder of a security guard that occurred at the Cuncolim industrial estate on the intervening night of November 23-24. Siddharamayya Rachayye Wandal, 66, a native of Karnataka, who was working as security at Boat Craft company at the Cuncolim industrial estate was found dead near the factory premises. Cuncolim police who had rushed to the site after being informed of the incident, had found injuries on the head of the deceased, leading the police to surmise that he may have been killed with a blunt object by his assailants. A manhunt was soon launched, and a breakthrough was achieved by the police on Sunday with Basumatary’s arrest who was apprehended at the Margao railway station. Basumatary, a native of Assam, was also working as a security guard, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/assam-native-held-for-murder/articleshow/79519012.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Jangammet turnout better; few wear mask||Hyderabad: While there was a poor voter turnout in several places, ward No. 45 Jangammet in Chandrayangutta fared better with 54 per cent voting recorded till 5pm. The ward saw 20 candidates contesting — the highest in the 150 wards of the GHMC. Of them, 13 candidates were Independents. With the number of candidates being more than seven, officials printed jumbo ballot papers. A voter, who has exercised his franchise over four decades, Guruvaiah, said, “I know the value of my vote. I asked youngsters to vote also.” However, Covid-19 norms went for a toss. At polling station No. 27/45 most voters did not wear a mask. GHMC officials failed to earmark circles at every polling station for social distancing. At one poll station, a defunct thermal screening machine was being used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jangammet-turnout-better-few-wear-mask/articleshow/79518980.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||13 Hathi Gaon elephants land in Gujarat||JAIPUR: The mahouts of Hathi Gaon in Jaipur are sending their elephants, which were the essence of Jaipur royal history for centuries, to neighbouring Gujarat. Till date, 13 elephants have been shifted to Jamnagar after seeking a three-year permission from the state forest department. Three more elephants are in line to be shifted. Sources said, “The elephants have been procured by an influential businessman in Gujarat. It is likely that an elephant safari, like the one at Jaipur’s Amer Fort, will be launched at a temple in Jamnagar.” If the movement of elephants continues, it will be a major setback for Rajasthan government as the state’s only elephant village in Jaipur that was meant to be a tourism attraction will be jeopardised. The elephant safari, one of the prime attractions for foreign tourists at Amer Fort, will fade away. As of now, 93 elephants are still left. It is alleged that the forest department issued illegal transit permits as the matter of elephants’ ownership is pending in the court. Mohamad Aslam Khan, the counsel of Haathi Malik Vikas Samiti, said in 2016, the forest department had registered a case against the mahouts for bringing elephants on illegal transit permit from other states and considered the animal custody illegal. Following this, an interim bail was granted to the mahouts by a CJM court in Jaipur. Also, the court gave just temporary custody of elephants to mahouts. “Issuing permission without informing the court is illegal as ownership matter is sub judice.” A mahout, who wished not to be named said, “In 2017, a permission was sought to take my elephant to Ambera, Jharkhand. However, the permission was turned down claiming the matter is pending in the court.” The copy of the letter is in possession of TOI. Despite several attempts by TOI, senior forest officials remained unavailable for comments. Forest and environmental minister Sukram Bishnoi is hospitalised after testing Covid positive, the state’s chief wildlife warden ML Meena has gone on leave till December 5. Mahouts claimed the state government should intervene in the matter at the earliest and migration of elephants should be stopped. Moreover, policy should be drafted to bailout remaining mahouts as there earning was seriously affected after the elephant ride at Amer was closed for nearly nine months. “During the Covid crisis, mahouts did not receive additional support from the government. The mahouts had created an ‘elephant welfare fund’ in 2005. An amount of Rs 20 from every ride was deposited in the fund, which is monitored by the forest department. But only Rs 600 is released per elephant per day, which was far too less. Per day expense of an elephant is approximately Rs 2,600 in winters,” said a mahout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-hathi-gaon-elephants-land-in-gujarat/articleshow/79519022.cms||Ajay Singh
December 2, 2020||Rajkot||Villagers claim big land rise near mining site in Ghogha||Rajkot: Some perplexing geological changes have been witnessed near the lignite mining site operated by a public sector company in a coastal village of Moti Hoidad in Ghogha taluka of Bhavnagar district. On November 16, villagers’ statements marking the rise of the ground level of a portion of land by around 30 to 40 foot raised the curiosity of environmental experts.According to villagers, a portion of land measuring about 700 metre in length and 300 metre wide in the mining area has risen up. The area surrounding the mine comprises 12 villages with 33,000 population who are mainly dependent on agricultural activities.Members of the Prayavaran Suraksha Smiti visited the site on November 25 along with officials of the Gujarat Power Corporation (GPCL), Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB), mamlatdar and assistant collector of Bhavnagar. Later, on Monday.“No action has been taken to direct GPCL to immediately stop mining in the area till the the expert committee submits its interim report,” the letter stated. Rohit Prajapati of Paryavaran Suraksha Samiti told TOI, “There are some geological changes happening in the mining area that may prove disastrous for the villages. The same thing happened a year ago too.”Bhavnagar district collector Gaurang Makwana, however, told TOI, “We have asked geologist to submit a report regarding the incident. The geologists have already visited the site and we are expecting a report soon. I can’t order the ongoing work to be stopped till I have a scientific report suggesting the same. If the primary report indicates something extraordinary in nature, we will rope in expert agencies to look into the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/villagers-claim-big-land-rise-near-mining-site-in-ghogha/articleshow/79516602.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Newborn baby found dead in hospital toilet in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A newborn baby girl was found dead in a toilet at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Monday afternoon, creating shock waves among the staff and patients there. The baby was found by a sanitary worker in the patients’ toilet at the red zone (created for accident and emergency cases) of the hospital. The worker who had gone to clean the toilet as per routine was shocked to find a baby lying still. He immediately informed the other staff who confirmed the baby was dead. “The baby weighing 2kg looks premature. We have sent the baby’s body for postmortem, which may reveal if it has any life-threatening complication,” dean of the hospital Dr P Kalidas said. The hospital has also lodged a complaint with the Race Course police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/newborn-baby-found-dead-in-hospital-toilet/articleshow/79519020.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Woman held for stealing cash from a financial institution||editedTrichy: A 42-year-old woman was arrested for stealing cash of Rs 74,000 from a private financial institution in Edamalaipattipudhur in Trichy on Monday.The accused was identified as R Selvi, of Edamalaipattipudhur in the city. The police arrested her based on the complaint and CCTV footage from A Sudha, 35 of Kallukuzhi, who was working as a cashier at IDFC First Bharat limited at Ramachandrapuram near the city.Sudha lodged a complaint on Monday stating that she was at work in the office on November 10. She was sitting on the floor and segregating the collection amount for the past two days. She kept the cash of Rs 74,000 in Rs 2,000 denomination in the cash drawer of her table and did not lock it and went for lunch. On her return, she found the cash missing. Sudha informed her branch operation manager Sivakala and sifted through the CCTV footage in the area. The footage showed a woman taking away the cash. They identified the woman as Selvi. Sudha then lodged a complaint with the police. The Edamalaipattipudhur arrested her and recovered Rs 55,500 from her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-held-for-stealing-cash-from-a-financial-institution/articleshow/79519009.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy tops country in holding viral load tests on HIV patients||Trichy: The incidence of HIV positive cases in Trichy was reduced to 0.32% this year from 1.8% in 2010. Observing the World AIDS Day on Tuesday, Trichy district administration claimed that the district is on top of the chart in the country in having done the most number of viral load tests on HIV patients.Viral load testing facility, which was introduced in Trichy in June 2019, has helped patients a lot in advancing their treatment. District collector S Sivarasu said Trichy performed 9,511 tests so far to make it to the top spot in the country. District AIDS prevention and control unit (DAPCU) and Trichy district administration organised a function to mark World AIDS Day which had –“Ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic: Resilience and Impact” as the theme for 2020.Speaking at the function, Trichy collector S Sivarasu mentioned that the incidence of HIV positive cases among pregnant women in the district also declined sharply to 0.03 now from 0.2 in 2010. The collector appreciated the role of doctors, counsellors, lab technicians of ART centres and integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTCs) in the district for their efforts.Going by the data provided by DAPCU, 117 people in the general population tested HIV positive since April 2020 till date in Trichy district whereas the number was eight among pregnant mothers in the period. DAPCU also attributed the dip in the detection of new cases to the Covid-19 pandemic.The district program manager (DPM) of DAPCU, S M Manivannan, said that female sex workers (FSW) and men who have sex with men (MSM) have got awareness and took more precautionary measures to stay away from getting infected, while indulging in sexual activities. This has resulted in the reduction of new cases in the group.On the other hand, the incidence of people testing HIV positive was higher among the common category. “Sexual relationship and illicit affairs have led to many getting HIV infection. It occurs in the age group of 40,” said Dr Manivannan, adding that the incidence among the college students was negligible.Dr Manivannan said that the efficacy of the latest ART drug, being provided to the patients was of excellent quality, keeping the CD4 count of the patient at good level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-tops-country-in-holding-viral-load-tests-on-hiv-patients/articleshow/79519017.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 2, 2020||Goa||PFG opposes Rs 100cr L-Day celebrations||Panaji: Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) has criticised the planned expenditure of Rs100 crore to celebrate the 60th year of Goa Liberation, by borrowing the amount from the Centre. The front said that the state should instead extend help to surviving freedom fighters and their family members, some of whom are in urgent need of financial assistance during the pandemic. “Several freedom fighters in Goa have gone through a serious financial crisis for their sustenance. Last year a prominent and respected name from the freedom struggle Mohan Ranade passed away following prolonged illness, who not only fought his illness bravely but also fought hard against his pathetic financial condition,” Mahesh Mahambrey, a member of PFG said. PFG said there are several issues plaguing Goa, from the Mhadei water diversion by Karnataka, to citizens protesting the proposed felling of trees in Mollem, and therefore it is hardly a time for celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pfg-opposes-rs-100cr-l-day-celebrations/articleshow/79519021.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: Stars, social media influencers exercise franchise||HYDERABAD: Star power was in full display as actors came out to cast their vote in the GHMC elections on Tuesday. Actor Chiranjeevi and his wife Surekha, Nagarjuna and wife Amala and Rajasekhar and his wife Jeevitha were among film personalities who exercise their franchise. Chiranjeevi and his wife voted in Jubilee Hills club. Rajasekhar has just recovered from Covid-19 having spent a long hospital stay. Among the earliest to cast his vote was actor Vijay Devarakonda who came with his parents and brother. “It is a simple process and safe. Come out and vote,” he said in an appeal to people after casting his vote. Manju Lakshmi, Ram Pothineni, Ravi Teja, Bellamkonda Sai Srinivas, director Madhura Sridhar and director Teja were among those who voted. Tanikella Bharani and his family members voted, Actor Kota Srinivas Rao and his wife cast their votes at Filmnagar Club in Jubilee Hills. Allu Arjun wasn’t there but his wife Sneha Reddy voted. However, some big names from the film industry who otherwise usually vote did not turn up to cast their votes. There were other show-stoppers too. Entertainer ‘Lobo 619’ was a scene-stealer with his sense of dressing which was lapped up by his 2.32 lakh followers on his FB account. Lobo 619 as he calls himself got 4.1 K likes for the photograph he shared on his Facebook account. “I voted for the best person,” he said showing off his ink mark on his finger. His hair dyed pink and his shoes were a big attraction. If ‘Lobo bhai’ as his fans called him got more than 100 comments telling him that they loved him in that attire and for being a responsible voter, there was also ‘Mujeeb bhai’, who also won hearts of netizens. TNGOs Hyderabad district president SM Hussaini with his glares, blazer and cheerful face was a top draw in Banjara Hills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-elections-stars-social-media-influencers-exercise-franchise/articleshow/79518968.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Don’t build sewage pump station on park site’||Coimbatore: Residents of Sai Nagar in Podhanur on Tuesday protested the city corporation’s move to construct a sewage pump station on their park site. They said the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) had been working on it as part of the underground drainage project. R Sivakumar, a resident, said, “We have been demanding the city corporation to stop the work for the past two years. Every time we stage a protest, they will stop the work only to start it within a few days. Now, the contractor has resumed the work with the help of police force.” Pointing out that the park site was located close to both residential area and the Noyyal, he said the pump station would create health hazards to the public and pollute the river. “We are just asking them not to construct it in a residential area.” When contacted, TWAD officials said the location to construct the sewage pump station was identified after conducting multiple studies and they would hold talks with the public. Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian had, meanwhile, visited the spot and held talks with the protestors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dont-build-sewage-pump-station-on-park-site/articleshow/79519027.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP files plaint against MIM MLA||Hyderabad: BJP state unit on Tuesday filed a complaint with the State Election Commission against AIMIM MLA Mumtaz Khan, charging him with forcibly entering various polling stations during Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections n Puranapul ward. The BJP alleged that the MLA even threatened its polling agents.  The saffron party also alleged that ruling TRS activists tried to distribute money in Patancheru and Bharatinagar wards. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-files-plaint-against-mim-mla/articleshow/79518998.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Trichy||BDU signs MoU for academic collaboration with ICSI||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) has signed a memorandum of understanding with The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) for academic collaboration on Monday. The MoU is expected to benefit nearly five lakh students from both the ICSI and BDU like and promote faculty development, specialised training etc. Speaking at a panel discussion organised on vocal for local programme of the government of India and its impact on Indian economy, C S Asish Mohan, secretary, ICSI, said that the programme promotes global presence for local production. “Fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) sector and ayurvedic products have already proved their success in self-reliance. The challenge, however, in local production is reaching the large-scale production which has the benefits of fixed cost absorption thus cheaper price for the products,” Mohan said. M Selvam, dean, faculty of management, BDU pointed that the vocal for local programme has already proved its success by making small industries and startups to export 23 lakh PPE kits by July 2020 through their own resources. Apart from self-sufficiency in manufacturing sector, the government is also encouraging youth to move towards becoming job providers instead of job-seekers, he said. C S Nagendra D Rao, vice-president, ICSI, pointed out that the industry and academia collaboration would bring out many programmes like faculty development, specialised training, joint research projects, training of trainer, to enhance the knowledge of students and faculty members. He added that it would reshape the students as the future nation builders and future leaders. The MoU has many benefits, especially ICSI members working in Fortune 500 companies, who can deliver practical sessions on corporate governance, crisis management in corporate and career awareness programme, president of ICSI, CS Ashish Garg, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-signs-mou-for-academic-collaboration-with-icsi/articleshow/79519028.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government notifies one of three laws, defends move||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government notifying Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, one of the three new central laws being opposed by farmers, a war of words has erupted between political parties. “While the law allows trading in foodgrains and poultry outside mandis, it doesn’t bring any large-scale change in agriculture produce marketing in the capital. The other two farm laws are being examined by the development department of Delhi government,” said an official. The ordinance was notified by Delhi government on November 23. Earlier, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had backed the protesting farmers, who had demanded scrapping the laws and called them anti-farmer. While BJP and Congress attacked Kejriwal for his alleged double standards, AAP said farmers were not opposing the sale of grains and fruits outside mandis, but merely demanding minimum support price (MSP). An official of Azadpur Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) said in 2014 Delhi had allowed sale of vegetables and fruits outside the city’s mandis. “Now that the Centre has brought new laws, farmers can sell foodgrains and poultry outside the designated mandis too,” added the official. Delhi has APMCs in Narela, Najafgarh, Azadpur, Keshopur and the fish, poultry and vegetable markets at Ghazipur (Shahdara zone). An official said the notification further redefines the market areas of APMCs. “There will be no changes in the area of markets of national importance, like Azadpur and its sub-yards, Shahdara and Keshopur,” the notification stated. North East Delhi MP and former Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “The Kejriwal government has notified the new farm law so that farmers of Delhi can get its benefits. But at the same time, the AAP government continues to mislead the farmers.” Delhi BJP functionary Naveen Kumar said the notification was proof of Kejriwal’s double standards. Targeting Kejriwal over the notification, Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar Chaudhary said, “Notifying the laws that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah are in favour of means the AAP government is against the farmers. Kejriwal is misleading the farmers.” Hitting back at BJP and Congress, AAP stated, “BJP is clueless about handling the nationwide protests by farmers, so it is hopelessly trying to divert the attention of the public. The notification by Delhi government allows farmers to sell their produce anywhere, including outside the mandis.” “Selling of fruits and vegetables was already deregulated in Delhi many years ago, even before the AAP government came to power. Now, the same rule holds for grains too. We have not dismantled mandis. Farmers are not against that. The farmers have been demanding MSP inside or outside the mandis. We support that demand,” AAP further clarified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-govt-notifies-one-of-three-laws-defends-the-move/articleshow/79519060.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Ward 89 residents complain of dirty drinking water||JAIPUR: Residents of Ward 89 in Sanganer assembly area have been facing the problem of dirty water for a long time. The residents of the area have complained to the authorities several times. Sushma Kumawat, a resident said that since last three evenings they have been getting foul smelling water. “The water stinks and is yellow in colour. Most of the times it is like this for first 10 minutes, then it becomes clear,” said Sushma. Engineers of Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) have inspected the area but there is no respite. Councillor of Ward 89, Giriraj Sharma said that last week he had called up PHED engineers to check the pipeline of one area. That problem was solved but now it has arisen in another area. “This is a recurring problem. The officials come and fix it but we start getting dirty water after a few days. We are fed up. This issue was also a part of my campaign in the recently held urban body polls. Clean drinking water is a major concern for people of the area,” said the councillor. Officials at the PHED department said that pipeline in the area is old and needs to be changed. They believe there is leakage in the pipeline due to which sewer line water is getting mixed with it. Officials claimed they are working on finding a solution to it. Water supply to be affected in 80% of city on Thursday Bisalpur water will not be supplied to more than 80% of the city in the evening shift on December 3. The Balawala pumping station constructed under Bisalpur Dam water project will be shut for yearly maintenance. According to the PHED department, alignment, glade parking, greasing of pump motor will be checked on Thursday. Hence, from 10am to 4pm, water supply in various areas of Jaipur city will be affected. These areas include Pratap Nagar, Sanganer, Durgapura, Malviya Nagar, Bapu Nagar, Mahesh Nagar, Barkat Nagar, Civil Lines, Jyoti Nagar, Shanti Nagar, Sindhi Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, entire Walled City area, Mansarovar, Shyam Nagar, Vidyut Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, Officers’ Campus, Jhotwara, VKI, Vidyadhar Nagar, Murlipura, Shastri Nagar, Subhash Nagar, Brahmapuri, Amber, Gopalbari, Bani Park, Ambawadi, Jagatpura, Kho-Nagoriyan, Indira Gandhi Nagar and Muhana Mandi area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ward-89-residents-complain-of-dirty-drinking-water/articleshow/79519029.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||One in 4 pregnant women in UP not screened for HIV, reveals data||LUCKNOW: Despite efforts, one in four pregnant women in Uttar Pradesh is not screened for HIV, as is mandatory. The problem is a major roadblock in the state’s commitment to eliminate mother to child transmission of HIV. The data was shared on World AIDS Day on Tuesday. “Over 66 lakh women get pregnant in UP each year. Of these, 54 lakh were screened this year,” said a data sheet from UP State Aids Control Society (UPSACS), which is working to spread awareness on the issue. According to World Health Organisation, the estimated risk of a mother passing on the HIV infection to a baby is as high as 45%. The risk can be brought down to as low as 1% by the right kind of intervention including administration of anti-retroviral therapy. Officials also informed that since 2015, more than 5,000 babies have been saved from acquiring HIV from their positive mothers in the state. Stating that public health, especially that of women, children and the elderly, is a shared responsibility, senior official at UPSACS Dr Preety Pathak said: “The state is working hard to ensure that all pregnant women are tested for HIV. I would like to draw the attention towards the shared responsibility towards this cause. Expectant mothers need to be motivated to get themselves screened for a number of diseases, particularly HIV. Leaving this to the health system can never help in achieving 100% success on any count.” According to data from National Aids Control Society, UP is home to an estimated 1.6 lakh people living with HIV. The list includes some 55,000 women and 7,000 children (below 15 years). While the general precautions are must for people from all walks of life, checking mother to child transmission is possible with HIV screening. The country had pledged to eliminate mother to child HIV/AIDS transmission by the end of 2020. However, the pandemic has pushed the targets for next year now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1-in-4-pregnant-women-in-up-not-screened-for-hiv-reveals-data/articleshow/79520168.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Sarpanch hubby tries to flee with EVM, booked||JAISALMER: After polling concluded at Devra gram panchayat in the third phase of zila parishad and panchayat elections on Tuesday evening in Jaisalmer district, the husband of the sarpanch tried to run away with the EVM from the polling station by jumping over the wall. Police chased him and recovered the EVM but the accused managed to run away. Meanwhile, the seal of the EVM broke and district election officer has sent the report of the case to State Election Commission. Police have started investigation and district administration has lodged a case against the accused. District collector Ashish Modi, confirming the incident, said that the election at Devda gram panchayat was held peacefully on Tuesday evening and the EVMs were sealed and kept at the security box. But in the meantime, the sarpanch’s husband Datar Singh suddenly jumped over the polling booth wall and tried to run away with the EVM, on which the polling personnel raised alarm and the police deployed there, chased the culprit and recovered the EVM. He said action will be taken after directions are received from the SEC. SP Ajay Singh said police have lodged a case against the accused under Sections 353, 392 and the Public Representatives Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-hubby-tries-to-flee-with-evm-booked/articleshow/79519024.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Ancient Jyeshta Devi sculpture found abandoned near Thanjavur||Thanjavur: An ancient sculpture of Jyeshta Devi, believed to belong to the 10th century AD ,was found abandoned near a temple in Thirukkattuppalli in Thanjavur district. The sculpture which is 4 feet tall and 3 feet wide depicts the deity Jyeshta Devi flanked by her son and daughter. The bas-relief sculpture was found abandoned outside Anantheeswarar temple in Adanjur village near Thirukattuppalli by Manimaran, an history aficionado from Thanjavur.According to Manimaran, the sculpture depicts Jyeshta Devi, considered the goddess of misfortune, accompanied by her bull-faced son 'Kuligan' or 'Manthan' and her daughter 'Manthai' also known as ‘Agni Matha’. Manimaran said that the worshipping of Jyeshta Devi was found in inscriptions from 7th to 10th centuries. Jyeshta Devi was worshipped primarily by women to keep their families away from any misfortune.People from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had worshipped this deity till the 12th century AD after which people began burying the sculptures, believing the goddess would bring misfortune to them. Kudavayil Balasubramanian, an archeologist from Thanjavur, said that the sculpture might be dated back to 10th century AD. “Even until 12th century, people used to worship the deity. The practice gradually began to fade after that”, he said.Manimaran said that there is a mention about the goddess in Thirukkural and Mahabharata. The locals are not aware of the significance of these sculptures, he added. Manimaran appealed to the government to take steps to safeguard such sculptures which are in a state of neglect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ancient-jyeshta-devi-sculpture-found-abandoned-near-thanjavur/articleshow/79519025.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Govt tried to shield culprits: Sarath’s dad||Kozhikode: “It is a fruit of our prayers. We were at the temple from morning till the verdict was out,” said Sarath Lal’s father Sathyanarayanan. Speaking to mediapersons in reaction to the Supreme Court verdict that upheld the CBI inquiry into the killings of the Youth Congress workers in Periya, he said it was a slap on the face of the government which splurged crores of rupees to save the culprits. “The government had no qualms in using the public money to salvage the murderers. A stern reply to this action has come from the apex court, which was convinced that the government was struggling to help the accused,” he said. Satyanarayanan said he would help the CBI to find out the real culprits. “We are sure that the central agency would not be satisfied with the stories concocted by the crime branch. We wanted a CBI probe because Pinarayi Vijayan cannot influence the central agency,” he said. “We are thankful to advocate T Asafali and UDF leaders for standing with us in trying times,” said Sathyanarayanan. Krupesh’s father Krishnan also thanked the Congress leaders who helped the families in the legal fight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/govt-tried-to-shield-culprits-saraths-dad/articleshow/79517781.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Man gets Covid +ve son’s blood stem cells, stays -ve||PUNE: A 55-year-old man with a severe form of blood cancer received blood stem cells from his son with active nCoV infection in June and has remained Covid-free for six months now. Doctors associated with the acute myeloid leukaemia patient’s treatment at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital said this was the first bone marrow transplant in the country despite knowing the donor’s Covid-positive status. Centre advises 28-day gap for blood donation Thailand had reported a similar case of bone marrow transplant in April and the recipient has so far remained Covid-19 free. A doctor said the Pune case signified that Covid did not seem to be transmitted through blood even if the donor was actively infected. Haematologists, however, say this does not mean that infected persons should donate blood. Scientists studying the virus advise against blood donation from infected patients as a precaution. The latest Union government guidelines stipulate that blood can be collected from a person who has tested positive and recovered from Covid-19 only after 28 days of discharge from a treating facility or the equal number of after home isolation ends. Experts said the Pune case also ruled out the threat of blood transfusion-transmission route, as many asymptomatic Covid-19 carriers might also donate blood. “The patient was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukaemia in January. An emergency bone marrow transplant is what he urgently needed,” said the hospital’s haematologist, Sameer Melinkeri. His son (22) was found to be a fit donor but he tested positive for Covid-19 a day before the transplant. The patient was tested the same day and was found Covid negative. His marrow had been destroyed drastically with a high dose of chemotherapy. If the donor’s cells were not infused immediately, he would have died due to complications. “We had no choice but to use the donor’s cells,” said Melinkeri. Post-transplant, he was monitored for symptoms and tested for Covid. But he didn’t develop infection and recovered well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-gets-covid-ve-sons-blood-stem-cells-stays-ve/articleshow/79521067.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Victims of Nadoor wall collapse tragedy still remain homeless||Coimbatore: A year has lapsed since 17 people were killed after a compound wall collapsed on their houses at the adi dravidar colony at Nadoor village near Mettupalayam during incessant rain, but the damaged houses are yet to be rebuilt.Family members of the victims continue to reside at their relatives’ houses or rental houses, as they wait for the state government to fulfil its promise of constructing new houses for them.The 20ft-high wall collapsed on four tiled-roof houses in the early hours of December 2, 2019, killing 17 people, three of them children, who were fast asleep. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced a solatium of Rs 10 lakh per affected family and government job to the kin of the victims, besides promising to reconstruct the damaged houses.K Kamalammal, 65, says, “Our houses are yet to be reconstructed. After losing seven members of my family, I am today living with my younger daughter at a rented house. We had approached government offices many times to know about the new houses, but in vain. A day ago, I was informed that the slum clearance board had been constructing houses for us at Arivoli Nagar on Sirumugai Road.”Pointing out that they had been asking the district administration to construct them houses at the colony itself, where they own patta land, she says the authorities hadn’t informed them about the change in location.While Kamalammal has received compensation for the death of her son, she is being made to run from pillar to post to obtain the legal heir certificate for other deceased family members to get the relief fund.G Sudha, who lost her husband in the tragedy, says she has been living with her two children at a rental house at Aalankombu near Sirumugai. The state government has appointed her as a helper with an anganwadi in the locality for a monthly salary of Rs 5,400. She is just one of the two victim’s family members, who obtained government job on compassionate grounds.Sudha says she is struggling to manage the household expenses with the salary, of which Rs 2,000 is spent on house rent alone. “It will be good if the government provides us an alternative house at the earliest.”It is to be noted that the compound wall has been rebuilt stronger than before by its owner after obtaining permission from the local body. Meanwhile, the family members of the victims are planning to pay homage to the deceased at Nadoor on Wednesday. The district administration has deployed police personnel in the village and restricted members of political parties and outfits from gathering in large numbers to pay homage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/victims-of-nadoor-wall-collapse-tragedy-still-remain-homeless/articleshow/79519089.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy colleges seek more clarity on reopening hostels||Trichy: While the state government has allowed reopening of colleges for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students apart from hostels, college managements seek more clarity from the higher education department on the standard operating procedures to be followed in the functioning of colleges, especially hostels.It would be helpful if the higher education department could come up with more clarification on accommodating students in hostels, said R Padmavathy, principal of Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College. When the government said that only one student can be allowed in a hostel room, it could have specified the area to which each student requires to be accommodated as there are small as well as big rooms, she said.She further added that accommodating only final year students in hostels may not be an issue until colleges are not reopened for other students for the current academic year.V Sujatha, principal of Cauvery College for Women, Trichy, said that they are planning to accommodate two students in a hostel room as students express reservations in staying alone in a room. “We are trying to find out ways to ensure social distancing among students for at least in the first couple of weeks after their arrival from home,” she said.While the decision on reopening of colleges has come at a time when most of the colleges have scheduled online semester examination, colleges such as Jamal Mohamed College and St Joseph’s College in the city have decided to postpone hostel reopening. “As the number of students allowed to be accommodated in the hostel is less, we are left with no option, but to collect escalated expenses from students who have availed hostel facilities. Therefore we have decided to wait until the higher education department comes up with more clarity on the standard operating procedure,” said a city college principal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-colleges-seek-more-clarity-on-reopening-hostels/articleshow/79519050.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Voting up in Pune, few names missing||Kolhapur: Last minute efforts by political parties resulted in a slightly higher voter turnout in the prestigious Pune division graduate constituency election. Around 50 % voters exercised their voting till 4 pm. Kolhapur district topped in the polling, while Pune recorded the lowest voting percentage. In Pune city, voters were seen complaining about the missing names and distance between residence and actual polling station. BJP MLA Madhuri Misal complained that her name was missing from the voters’ list. The voting took place amidst fear of Covid-19 spread. However, the election commission had made elaborate arrangements like temperature checking and social distancing at all the polling stations. Ambulances were also deployed in case any Covid-19 patients expressed their wish to cast their vote. According to the official information, overall 49.52 % voting was recorded till 4 pm. Kolhapur district had recorded 60.29% voting, followed by 52.69 % in Sangli district. Solapur district registered 52.10 % while Satara had 49.35 % polling. Pune district, which has the highest number of voters, recorded 39.51 % till 4 pm. Major political leaders like BJP state president Chandrakant Patil, minister of state for home Satej Patil, minister of state for cooperative Vishwajeet Kadam exercised their votes in their respective home towns. The constituency has around 4.26 lakh voters. In the teachers’ constituency, 67. 36% voting was recorded till 4 pm. The highest voting turnout was recorded in Kolhapur district, which was around 82 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/voting-up-in-pune-few-names-missing/articleshow/79516638.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Two tourists fall off vehicle at Jhalana, one injured||JAIPUR: Two wildlife tourists fell off a speeding electronic vehicle at Jhalana Leopard Reserve (JLR) on Tuesday, injuring a 33-year-old seriously. The victim Arvind Pareek, who is a resident of Bani Park, fell down with his niece after they lost balance when the driver took a speedy turn on bumpy forest roads. They were immediately rushed to the nearby private hospital. While the girl was immediately discharged, Pareek, who sustained head injuries and a fracture in the hand, was still under observation. Range officer Janeshwar Singh said, “The tourist stood up in a moving vehicle. After the officials saw this, they asked the driver to stop. The tourist fell down when the driver applied brakes suddenly at the turn.” It was informed that Pareek stood up to get his bag from the rear seat. He also called the driver to slow down, however, he could not listen. Official said Pareek’s head hit the rear portion of the vehicle near the tyre. The incident could have been bigger, if the victim would have come under the tyre. The incident occurred around 5.30pm when the driver was rushing to reach the gate as exit is allowed till 5.45pm. Singh said, “The negligence of driver cannot be ignored. We will write a letter to the DFO to take action against the driver.” Sources said, the contract of the safari in electronic vehicles has been given to a private firm and many a times, untrained drivers are hired. Also, these drivers are often changed. The driver who was driving the vehicle was also a newcomer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-tourists-fall-off-vehicle-at-jhalana-city-man-injured/articleshow/79519058.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Mukundra tiger turf to get eco-sensitive zone covering 4 districts||JAIPUR: The ministry of environment and climate change has issued a final notification to declare a eco-sensitive zone around Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) spread over 759.99 sq-km covering the four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar. The total area of the ESZ will be 248.70 sq km. The ESZ will be determined as 0-1 km from forest borders. This is the first tiger reserve in the state for which an ESZ has been declared. The MHTR, established in 2013, encompasses areas of Mukundara Hills National Park, Dara Sanctuary, Jawahar Sagar Sanctuary and part of National Chambal Ghariyal Sanctuary (From Garadia Mahadev to Jawahar Sagar Dam) which constitutes its core area. As per the notification, 75 villages will come under the ESZ. While the zone will be completely compatible to livelihoods of local communities living around the tiger reserve, it will bring the order on tourism, mining activities, industries and other footloose development activities disrupting wildlife corridors outside reserve boundary. A total of 8 activities including mining will be completely prohibited in ESZ, while 21 regulated and 11 promoted activities will be allowed. MHTR local advisory committee (LAC) member Tapeshwar Singh Bhati said, “The eco-sensitive zones will be treated as a ‘shock absorber’ for wildlife. It is demarcated based on their ecological importance which reigns in development activities inimical to wildlife and their habitats. The reserve is not only rich in scenic beauty and biodiversity, but also has at least two probable corridors from Ranthambhore– one through Indergarh - Lakheri - Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary-Dabi – Jawahar Sagar Sanctuary and the other through the ravines of Chambal and Kalisindh to Dara. An official said , “Special efforts are required to conserve this rich natural heritage to provide safe passage/corridor to the tigers of adjacent Ranthambhore Tiger Reserve and to reintroduce tigers in the area. Hence it has been given special legal protection as is available under Section 38(V) of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 by constituting it as a tiger reserve.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mukundra-tiger-turf-to-get-eco-sensitive-zone-covering-4-dists/articleshow/79519086.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Hyderabadis let down city, again; voters fume||HYDERABAD: Outraged by the poor show on polling day, dozens of voters across greater Hyderabad on Tuesday, turned against those who chose to give the elections a miss. Terming the turnout as “shameful”, they said the ‘absentee’ voters have no right to complain about poor amenities in their neighbourhood, even as many appealed to the authorities to initiate strict action – including scratching their names out of electoral rolls – against them. “Sitting in the comfort of our home and blaming the system for everything that is wrong around us is not going to help. Each one of us is a stakeholder here...not voting is just a lazy excuse for expecting someone else to clear up our mess,” said educationalist Udita T, on an online forum with a hashtag #ShameonyouHyderabad. The Begumpet resident’s disappointment reverberated all through the city. In Sainikpuri, voters said they did not see more than one or two people at a polling booth, at any given point in time during the day. “It only proves the electorate here is lazy. You can’t always put the onus of your well-being on someone else,” said Durga Srinivas, president of Madhavpuri Colony in Kapra. He added: “Private companies should deduct the day’s salary of those who despite being given the day off, chose not to step out and vote.” While they agreed that the fear of Covid-19 might have kept many indoors, they weren’t willing to be too lenient. Especially since, voters claimed, most booths were following prescribed sanitization norms. In fact, those like, Surendra Manne, recommended that the voter IDs of people using “silly reasons” to stay home on Tuesday should be “cancelled”. “Voting is the only way to decide the right government,” he tweeted, even as another agitated Hyderabadi wrote, “...People don’t have the right to complain about amenities/facilities provided if they cannot take out half an hour from their schedule and vote. If you want a change, get out of your homes and vote.” While the participation of the youth and young professionals has, historically, been poor across elections in Hyderabad, many reiterated their disappointment in this section of society. “When I voted this morning I have seen majority voters are senior citizens and physically challenged. So what happened to youth of Hyderabad...are they limited only to social media slogans ? What went wrong in #GHMCElections (sic)?” tweeted a voter with the handle @RGforindia2024. Though most appeared shocked by the city’s performance, there were some who claimed that the turnout was as expected. “The high-pitched campaigning led people to believe that things would be different this time. But I knew nothing would change. In conversations with friends and colleagues, I realised people, unfortunately, do not give any thought to civic polls. And that’s true of every city. Will this ever change? I doubt it,” said Arvind Kumar, a city-based entrepreneur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-polls-hyderabadis-let-down-city-again-voters-fume/articleshow/79519026.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Engineering colleges to hold ‘proctored online’ sem exam||Trichy: Engineering colleges are preparing for online semester examination following the permission given by the higher education department to Anna University to conduct the examination in the “proctored online” mode. The end-semester examination was conducted by the university in the same mode in September. While the syllabus for the current semester in all years except for newly joined students in the first year has been completed through online classes, college were awaiting the go-ahead from Anna University to conduct semester examination. While examinations were anticipated to be conducted through online mode due to the lockdown, the state government’s decision to reopen colleges for final year students from December 7 created some confusion. With no mention on the mode of semester examination to be conducted, colleges started receiving calls from students enquiring if semester examinations will be conducted in the pen and paper mode. However, Anna University on Monday informed autonomous engineering colleges to hold proctored online mode of semester examination. It also attached the letter from the state government permitting the university to conduct the examination in the online mode. “The examination will be conducted for 60 marks for one-hour duration. The marks obtained by students will be converted for 80 marks. Rest of the 20 marks will be given based on three internal assessment,” said D Valavan, principal of Saranathan College of Engineering, Trichy. There will be 30 objective type questions of one mark each and 15 questions carrying two marks each. While appearing for online exam, students must keep their web camera and mike on. Each teacher will be monitoring 20 students during the examination through a software which will detect any unusual activity for malpractice by students, he said. A majority of the students however find the pen and paper mode of exam more convenient. Only bright students can score in both online and offline mode, they say. M Arthiya, a final year student of an engineering college in the city, said that pen and paper mode will help her explain the concepts in detail unlike in the objective type when the scoring also may be affected in online mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/engineering-colleges-to-hold-proctored-online-sem-exam/articleshow/79519059.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||CPCB flags inadequate working of CETPs in Haryana industrial towns||CHANDIGARH: With the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) flagging inadequate functioning of the Central Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP) in various industrial towns, the wrongs committed by district heads in Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) have come to the fore. In its communication to HSPCB in the first week of November, CPCB not only conveyed data but also maintained that the effluent discharge in Yamuna has resulted in detection of ammonia as well as high content of toxins and foam in the river. Also, district-level officers are found to have been misleading higher authorities in HSPCB about the functioning of CETPs and STPs, which has resulted in increase in pollution. Authorities in HSPCB have issued directions for action against such errant officers. S Naryanan, member secretary, Haryana State Pollution Control board admitted to having received the communication. “We are seriously working to fix the shortcomings highlighted by CPCB and are strictly implementing the recommendations,’’ said Narayanan. Sources said among the industrial estates and areas highlighted by CPCB, including HSIIDC Industrial Estate, Jind, Murthal, Rai, Panipat, Kundli, Bahadurgarh and Sonipat districts, Jind tops the table of pollutants with BOD level of 2,356 and PH level of 1,921. Panipat has reported the second highest PH level of 626. Rest of the industrial estates have reported increased BOD levels as well as PH levels. As CETPs are found to have been functioning inadequately, discharge of drains is polluting the water, said Amit, an activist. The industrial towns of Panipat, Sonipat, Gurugram, Faridababd and Palwal are already on the radar of NGT as well as CPCB for alleged pollution of air, soil as well as water due to unchecked growth of industries and discharge of industrial waste directly into Yamuna river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cpcb-flags-inadequate-working-of-cetps-in-haryana-indl-towns/articleshow/79519095.cms||Manvir Saini
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Over 60% corona patients in Uttar Pradesh under 40 years’||LUCKNOW: Over 60% of Covid-19 patients in Uttar Pradesh are below 40 years of age, according to an assessment of data by the state health department released on Tuesday. “Over 13% of the Covid-19 positive patients in UP belong to the 0-20 years age group, while nearly 47% are between 21 and 40 years,” said an official. Meanwhile, the state reported 1,703 fresh cases in the past 24 hours which took the total to 5.45 lakh. The data released by the government also showed that 29.3% of the patients belong to the 41-60 years age bracket, while remaining 10.3% were above the age of 60 years.Experts opine that the high proportion of under-40 cases speaks for gaps in adherence to Covid-19 prevention protocol. “This is the age group which ventures out of homes for education, vocation and household works… Failure on their part to save themselves makes them an easy prey for the pandemic virus,” said a senior doctor in the health department. A surveillance team member added that these are the people who carry the infection back to their homes which is a huge risk to children and elderly. “Government alone cannot check contagious diseases… the role of people is important not only for their own well-being, but also for the entire community,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, infectious diseases surveillance officer, Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, 2,059 people defeated the pandemic infection in the past 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to 5,14,087 which is over 94% of the total cases reported so far. The state also recorded the death of 29 persons taking the total Covid-19 casualties to 7788.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-60-corona-patients-in-state-under-40-years/articleshow/79520207.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 2, 2020||Meerut||Dumped by owner during lockdown & adopted by PAC, dog who found mention in PM’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’ dies young, buried with full honours||Meerut: The dog, ‘Rakesh’, who found a mention in Prime Minister’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’, breathed its last and was buried with full honours by Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) on Tuesday. The PM had praised the force for taking care of the canine in his programme. Named Rakesh after the tea stall owner who kept it briefly, he died young at five, due to infection in liver and kidney.Aziz-ur-Rehman Khan, head constable, motor and transport, Police Lines, said, “A tea stall owner Rakesh’s corner was the go-to spot for the trainee jawans here at the Commissionary crossing. He used to take care of a stray dog. However, he went back to his hometown after the first lockdown due to Covid-19 leaving the dog behind.”Khan further said that over the months, all the trainee jawans – constables and head constables – developed love for the stray, named him after the tea stall owner ‘Rakesh’ and started taking care of him.“I used to get food for the dog every day. On November 24, I was unable to find Rakesh. Later, other officials found it in ill health lying in a corner,” Khan said. The stray, then adopted by 44 Battalion of PAC and officials posted at Police Lines, was rushed to a vet for medical treatment.Dr Anshumali Vashishta, a vet and animal activist, said, “I provided as much care as possible, but it developed infection in liver and kidney and breathed its last late on Monday.”“Rakesh had developed great fondness with us and we did not want his departure from the world to be a silent affair. A condolence meet was held as everybody stood in sorrow near its body which was covered in a white shroud. Later, all the jawans and officials took turns to put soil on its body and bid their goodbyes,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dumped-by-owner-during-lockdown-adopted-by-pac-dog-who-found-mention-in-pms-mann-ki-baat-dies-young-buried-with-full-honours/articleshow/79516660.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 2, 2020||Meerut||Charred body of Noida resident foundin Hapur’s Industrial Area, probe on||Meerut: The charred body of a Noida resident was found dumped in Industrial Area under Dholana police station limits in UP’s Hapur district on Tuesday morning. With no complaint lodged by the victim’s family, police are yet to register an FIR in this connection. As the post-mortem examination failed to ascertain the cause of death, police are waiting for the blood toxicology report for clarity. Police have, meanwhile, identified the victim as Harveer, 55, a resident of Kharcha area in Noida, who was employed with a private factory in the area. Police suspect the victim could have been murdered somewhere else and his body was later dumped in a desolated area, while the accused burnt the body to destroy the victim’s identity. Additional superintendent of police Sarvesh Mishra said, “Harveer, who had recently joined a plastic waste management factory, was missing since November 26. Based on clothes found lying close to the body, family members identified the victim as Harveer. We will also get a DNA test conducted to ascertain the victim’s identity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/charred-body-of-noida-resident-foundin-hapurs-industrial-area-probe-on/articleshow/79516650.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Farmers in delta protest in support of Delhi agitation||Trichy: Farmers from across delta districts as well as members of employees’ unions protested at various places including in front of central government offices in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi against the new farm laws. Police arrested 82 protesters including 32 women in Thanjavur.Farmers affiliated to both Communist parties and their cadres along with leaders of farmers’ associations held demonstrations in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam. In Trichy, members and functionaries of BHEL employees’ union protested in front of the factory by raising slogans demanding withdrawal of the three new laws.In Thanjavur, the CPM commenced a week-long siege of the head post office with district executive committee member P Senthilkumar and union secretary M Malathi heading the protest. District secretary G Neelamegam and Tamil Nadu Farmers Association state secretary Sami Natarajan participated. They said the three new agricultural laws would affect small and marginal farmers. Thanjavur East Police arrested 82 protesters.Meanwhile, a section of farmers affiliated to CPI, headed by union secretary R Senthilkumar, carried out a protest by standing on a samba paddy field at Ammapettai carrying ploughs and spades. The protesters urged the BJP-led Union government to accede to the demands of the thousands protesting in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-in-delta-protest-in-support-of-delhi-agitation/articleshow/79519091.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Uthra murder case trial begins||Kollam: Trial has begun in Uthra murder case, in the 6th additional session’s court, Kollam, on Tuesday. Trial was held for accused-turned-approver Suresh, the snake charmer of Chavarkadu. He told the court that his phone number was available on social media and people used to call him to catch snakes if found in areas inhabited by people. As Sooraj contacted him and sought a snake and asked for training to handle snakes he handed over a cobra. He said he had received Rs 15 ,000 from Sooraj and handed over the cobra to Sooraj. He claimed that from news report of Uthra’s death he came to know about Sooraj’s act of using the snake to kill his wife. He could not contact Sooraj in spite of his repeated efforts to call him. Suresh also claimed that Sooraj had told him later that he used the snake to kill Uthra as he did not want to continue to live with her since she was a mentally-retarded woman. Suresh identified the plastic jar used to hand over the snake and the statement made before the forest officials. Advocate G Mohan Raj , Gopish Kumar, C S Sunil appeared for the prosecution. Advocates Ajith Prabhav, A Ashok Kumar, Jithu S Nair and Brijendralal appeared for the accused. The trial will continue on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/uthra-murder-case-trial-begins/articleshow/79517806.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Meerut||Cormorants clean up Ganga while wintering in Bijnor||Bijnor: At the onset of winter, hundreds of cormorants flock to the banks of the Ganga here to get away from the icy Himalayan winter. Their arrival coincides with the time when lakhs of devotees come for Ganga snan (holy dip) on the occasion of Kartik Purnima. While the devotees leave within five days, littering the river with offerings, the winged visitors stay on till April or early May till the summer heat drives them back home in the higher reaches of the Himalayas. During their stay here, this avian species -- Little Cormorant, Large Cormorant – along with birds like Great Crested Grebe, Indian Shag and Little Grebe render a priceless service by cleaning up the river. According to forest officials, these birds like turtles are natural scavengers, feeding on floating flesh and insects besides fish, leaving the Ganga water clean. They also consume the offerings of flour pills and “parwal” (pointed gourds) that are strewn in the river by the devotees. Speaking with TOI, M Semmaran, divisional forest officer, said the cormorants start arriving by October-end to roost on the banks along the Ganga and other water bodies in the district. “This time around, cormorants can be seen preening themselves and drying their wings along Ganga banks here at the Barrage during the daytime.” The cormorants hunt in flocks at dawn and dusk. These black birds take off together, encircling the sky and diving into the water with their snake-like necks to catch their prey. They use their wettable plumage as ballasts for deep diving. Ashish Loya, a bird watcher, said, “Migratory birds have started coming as far as Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary this winter. Cormorants have been spotted in large numbers on the banks of the Ganga, especially at the Barrage, Harevali, Ram Ganga and Pili dams.” Besides, cormorants, Gulls, Gadwalls, Coots, Brahminy ducks, few Northern Shovelers, Northern Pintails, Wigeons and Common Pochards have started arriving in the wetlands. A few raptors like Black-eared Kite, Marsh Harrier and Peregrine Falcon too have been seen in the region, he added. Over the years, the cormorants and other migratory birds have been hunted by local farmers. They have also fallen prey to excessive use of pesticides and insecticides by farmers tilling land along the river banks. Now, foresters have taken upon themselves the task of sensitizing the local people about the importance of these migratory birds in conserving river water ecology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cormorants-clean-up-ganga-while-wintering-in-bijnor/articleshow/79516658.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Woman preparing for competitive exams ends life in Kota||KOTA: A 30-year-old woman preparing for competitive exams allegedly committed suicide by jumping into the Chambal river in Nayapura police station area on Monday. Depression and tension over not being able to qualify in any competitive exam so far seemed to be the reason behind the extreme step, the police said. Her body was handed over to family members after post-mortem on Tuesday morning. The deceased was identified as Devrani alias Devki Lodha (30), a resident of Khedli Phatak area of Kota city. The woman reportedly parked her scooty on the overbridge at Chambal River in Nayapura area and jumped into the river on Monday afternoon, SHO at Nayapura police station Bhawani Singh said. On report of the incident, the police rushed to the spot and rescued the woman, who had sustained critical injuries after having hit the rocks below on the river shore. She was taken to MBS Hospital, where the doctors declared her brought dead. The police lodged a case of unnatural death under section 174 of CrPC and initiated investigation to ascertain actual reason behind the death. The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem on Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-preparing-for-competitive-exams-ends-life-in-kota/articleshow/79519088.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sariska tigress ST-14 gives birth to cub for second time||JAIPUR/ALWAR: Six -year-old tigress ST-14 gave birth to a cub for the second time after she was born to tigress ST-2 at Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) in 2014. ST-2 was the first tigress to join the reserve in Alwar district after she was flown by an Indian Air Force helicopter from Ranthambore on July 4, 2008. The forest administration, who were waiting for tiger population to grow at STR, were elated after tigress ST-14 gave birth to a cub. Field director of Sariska Tiger Reserve, RN Meena said, “ST-14 tigress has given birth to a cub, which is currently two-month-old. The picture was captured in the trap camera. We have increased the monitoring for the tigress.” With this the number of big cats have increased to 21 at STR. There are eight females, three males, five sub-adults and five cubs. Officials said the tigress gave birth in the region from where village Dabali was recently relocated. STR, infamous for poaching, has finally scripted a remarkable success story in tiger conservation, as five cubs were born inside the park this year. In May 30, tigress ST-12 was spotted with triplets for the second time. Wildlife lovers said the news has come as a respite for STR after the death of a few tigers in the park in the past two years. “Birth of five cubs within a year will give a fresh lease of life to the reserve. Sariska has tremendous potential and this would help wildlife tourism to grow at STR, which equally helps in conservation,” said a wildlife enthusiast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sariska-tigress-st-14-gives-birth-to-cub-for-second-time/articleshow/79519103.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Udaipur||Teary-eyed farewell: Rajsamand MLA Maheshwari cremated in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: People from all walks of life bid a teary farewell to former state minister and Rajsamand legislator Kiran Maheshwari who was cremated here at the Rani Road crematorium on Tuesday. Maheshwari (59) breathed her last at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Sunday after battling Covid for three weeks. Her body reached Udaipur on Monday and was kept at a morgue of a private hospital here. On Tuesday, the body was taken to her residence at Ambamata scheme where her family members waited for her in PPE kits before performing all the rituals. Her body was kept in the verandah of her home so that people could pay floral tributes. Maheshwari’s son Prashant, daughter Deepti were inconsolable after lighting her pyre while others were seen comforting them. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, former home minister Gulabchand Kataria, ex-UDH minister Sri Chand Kriplani, former assembly speaker Shantilal Chaplot took part in the procession. Senior partymen had appealed supporters and workers from Rajsamand not to gather for her funeral as it could violate the Covid protocols and set a bad example before the common man. Condolence meetings were held in many offices, universities and colleges where staff members paid their tributes to their beloved leader who was known for her cheerful disposition and helping nature. Maheshwari was elected an MP from Udaipur-Rajsamand seat in 2004, when she defeated Congress veteran Girija Vyas. She was elected an MLA from Rajsamand for the first time in 2008 and she held the post of higher education minister in the previous BJP government in the State.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/teary-eyed-farewell-rajsamand-mla-maheshwari-cremated-in-udaipur/articleshow/79519090.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farmers try to break down the wall||NEW DELHI: Farmers protesting at the Ghazipur border on Tuesday tried to break the barricade by ramming a tractor into it, only to have police pushing them back. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad arrived at the protest site in the afternoon and more farmers from Uttar Pradesh joined the protest. Around 10am on Tuesday, farmers riding tractors and on foot tried to break the first of the barricades but were quickly repulsed by the security personnel. Apart from Delhi Police, the others manning the border are CISF, CRPF and RAF. Around 3pm, the Bhim Army chief arrived and, standing next to Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, declared, “I am an andolankaari (agitator) and support the farmers. The new agriculture laws will take away the lands of the farmers.” A handful of women farmers joined the protest on Tuesday. By evening, the demonstrators’ number had swelled up. Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (City), said, “A group of farmers arrived from wester UP and tried to breach the barricade. Except for that, things were pretty calm through the day.” In fact, the protest organisers weren’t keen on provoking the cops. Succha Singh, a farmer from Meerut, was deployed at the far end of the barricaded area, alert at the steering wheel. “We have placed a couple of tractors across the road as the last line of defence,” said Singh. “This is to deter any possible overzealous farmer from trying to cross over to the Delhi side. I am in charge of stopping any such misadventure.” And though Tikait said the farmers would not allow the protest to be politicised, besides Azad, Pappu Yadav of Jan Adhikar Party also extended his support to the protesters. Yadav contented that the new farm laws were not in the favour of the land tillers and the central government should withdraw them immediately, paying heed to the concerns of the agriculturists. Rajvir Singh, an office bearer of BKU from Ghaziabad, declared that if the intent of the government was good, “then it should pass a law that criminalised the purchase of farm produce below the minimum support price”. He added, “But, the Centre’s hesitation in addressing this core issue of our problems is suspicious.” In the evening, the protest site was dotted with half-lit bonfires. “It gets cold during the night so we have to make arrangements for wood for the bonfires to keep us warm,” said Amit Awana, who is affiliated with Kisan Ekta Sangh. A Sikh group, not associated with farmers, prepared food for the agitators in a makeshift kitchen. “As a mark of solidarity with the protesting farmers, we are preparing meals for them,” explained Balkar Singh. “We make some dishes here, but most of the food is ferried in mini trucks from our mega kitchen in a nearby gurdwara.” He said they were feeding around 1,000 people, among them media people. Among the crowd was a young protester who had his entire back tattooed with the names of martyred soldiers. Amid all this, there was a small commotion when policemen caught hold of two youths, Gulzar and Dharmendra, who they alleged were pickpockets. A farmer told the cops, “Check them, they have stolen my mobile phone.” Given the circumstances, the cops could not but drag the two accused to the nearest police picket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-try-to-break-down-the-wall/articleshow/79519154.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur fishers seek govt nod to go fishing||Thanjavur: Fishermen from Athirampattinam in Thanjavur district have appealed to the state government to allow them to venture into the seas for fishing. In view of cyclone Nivar, India Meteorological Department had warned fishermen not to venture into the sea for fishing. However, after four days the cyclone made landfall near Puducherry and the fishermen from Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram districts are allowed to venture only for three days into the sea, A Thajudeen, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Fishermen Federation in Mallipattinam said. “As they are allowed for fishing on Monday, Wednesday and Saturday, the fishing community have lost their livelihood. Around 60,000 farmers are left in the lurch as they could not earn much to lead their life. It is acceptable to restrict deep fishing during the cyclone to safeguard their life. But it is unfair to use the same yardstick for small fishermen those would sail up to 15 nautical miles,” he opined. Leaders of fishermen associations have also urged the fisheries department to lift the ban imposed for fishing activities as there is no threat for fishermen hailing from Thanjavur, and Nagapattinam districts by the cyclone Burevi. When there is no threat for these districts, officials should not restrict fibre boat fishermen. They should be allowed as they are not executing deep sea fishing, Thajudeen added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-fishers-seek-govt-nod-to-go-fishing/articleshow/79519087.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Meerut||In a first, UP police to directly fill 102 vacancies for mounted police||Meerut: Uttar Pradesh Police Recruitment and Promotion Board has begun preparations for conducting written examination for the recruitment of personnel in 5,805 posts, including 102 positions for mounted police constable. The offline written examination for the recruitment will be held on December 19-20, for with several centres across the state have been designated, including 11 in Meerut.According to officials, this is for the first time that the department will be directly recruiting to fill up vacancies for mounted police for which, earlier, personnel were drawn from the civil police. In Meerut, there are 25 sanctioned posts for mounted police -- 20 constables, four head constables and one sub-inspector, said Ajay Sahani, Meerut senior superintendent of police. Like the civil, mounted police unit in Meerut continues to be short staffed with only five constables against the sanctioned 20 and two head constables against four sanctioned posts in the wing. Mounted units are primarily used for patrolling, parades and during important ceremonial occasions. During patrolling, the height advantage gives a wider view to the patrolling staff for managing crowds and large gathering which could spring law and order challenges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/in-a-first-up-police-to-directly-fill-102-vacancies-for-mounted-police/articleshow/79516670.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||GST collection gets festive boost, up 11% in Nov||Ahmedabad: The festive season boost to demand and consumption was evident in November, with tax collection figures going up in Gujarat. According to data from the Union finance ministry, goods and services tax (GST) collection in Gujarat was Rs 7,566 crore in November, up 11% from Rs 6,805 crore last November. Month-on-month, GST collection in the state rose by 11% from October’s collection of Rs 6,787 crore. J P Gupta, state commercial tax commissioner, said, “The festive season caused a spurt in accumulated demand that was pent up since the lockdown. Moreover, positive and upbeat market sentiment was seen in November, which led to significant growth in consumption and economic activities and in turn a growth in tax revenues.” “Moreover, this was the agriculture season and harvests have been good this time, which also boosted consumption and caused an increase in tax revenues,” Gupta added. November also recorded the highest state revenue in the current financial year, 2020-21. In September, Gujarat’s tax collection was Rs 6,090 crore, growing 6% against September 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gst-collection-gets-festive-boost-up-11-in-nov/articleshow/79519166.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Salem||Israeli delegates visit cut flowers centre at Kothanur||Krishnagiri: Consul general of Israel to South India Jonathan Zadka and his deputy Ariel Seidman visited the Indo-Israel joint agriculture project (IIAP) at Kothanur near Thally on Tuesday. Collector V Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy accompanied the delegates.Israel had helped to set up 29 centers of excellence throughout India as part of its bilateral cooperation in agriculture. One of the centres for cut flowers is at Kothanur, which was inaugurated on December 6, 2017. This was the first Indo-Israel joint programme for cut flowers out of the 26 active IIAPs in India. Jonathan Zadka said Israeli experts frequently visit this centre since its establishment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/israeli-delegates-visit-cut-flowers-centre-at-kothanur/articleshow/79519133.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Meerut||Man shot dead while asleep at home||Bijnor: A 55-year-old man, who was sleeping at his home, was shot dead from point blank range by unidentified assailants on the intervening night of on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Police are trying to ascertain the motive behind the murder.The incident took place at Garhwal village. The deceased has been identified as Suresh Saini. Other family members were sleeping in separate rooms when the incident occurred.The police was alerted after one of the family members found Saini with bullet injuries on his head.The deceased is survived by five children and wife.“Police have registered a case against unidentified assailants under relevant section of the IPC based on the complaint of the deceased’s wife. Probe is on,” said superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-shot-dead-while-asleep-at-home/articleshow/79516673.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Don’t lower guard, follow protocol, CII tells industry||Lucknow: Fearing another wave of coronavirus in north India, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has appealed to its members not to drop their guard or else another round of lockdown or restrictions could severely hit businesses which are already in a bad shape. “As we can see signs of a rebound in our economy, the last thing we would want now would be another spate of shutdowns or closing of our workplaces due to infections. Already, we are seeing that some of the states are again being forced to announce night curfews and restrictions on social gatherings which are not good signs,” said Nikhil Sawhney, chairperson of CII, northern region. Sawhney has urged industry members to ensure that prescribed norms of wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, washing hands, avoiding large gatherings, maintaining health and hygiene and boosting immunity are followed. CII has shared a detailed workplace protocol with its members. The guidelines include work from home for offices requiring non-contact activities, ensuring workplace safety measures where employees are required to be physically present, conducting Covid tests for all employees and their families, aggressively promoting awareness among employees’ families and larger community and spreading information about Covid-19 protocols. “While pandemic fatigue is an expected and natural response to a prolonged public health crisis, we need to understand and keep in mind the repercussions of dropping our guard not only on the health and safety of those around us but also its impact on our work and everyday lives,” Sawhney said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-lower-guard-follow-protocol-cii-tells-industry/articleshow/79520224.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Govt’s wavering worsened air quality in state’||Chandigarh: The impact of flip flops by the Haryana government on Diwali night has had an adverse effect on air quality in the state. As many as 13 of the 15 cities on the Pollution Control Board radar were found to have poor and severe Air Quality Index (AQI). The exceptions were Panchkula and Palwal, where moderate or low pollution was recorded. Besides, Gurugram, Faridabad, Fatehabad and Jind districts were said to be worst affected in terms of AQI on Diwali night as well as November. Districts in Haryana were already under the scanner of the pollution control board on the issue of stubble burning. These were the observations of the report prepared by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on selected cities after Diwali. The CPCB submitted the report to the National Green Tribunal in the third week of November. Diwali was celebrated on November 14 and the Haryana government made a series of flip flops related to cracker ban till November 10. Initially, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced a blanket ban on the sale of crackers. The next day, he made a U-turn by giving a two-hour window for crackers. Finally, deputy commissioners were directed to ensure complete implementation of the NGT order related to bursting of crackers. The steps had been taken in the wake of threat of further spread of Covid-19. According to the report, cities which failed the AQI test on Diwali night include Ambala,, Bahadurgarh, Ballabhgarh, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Dharuhera, Faridabad, Gurugram, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Mandikhera, Manesar,Narnaul, Panipat, Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonipat and Yamunanagar. These cities largely reported bad and severe AQI. CPCB got another study related to average AQI days (orange, red and severe) in 25 cities of the state. Surprisingly, only Narnaul, Palwal, Panchkula and Charkhi Dadri had lowest days of worst air quality in the first 23 days of November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govts-wavering-worsened-air-quality-in-state/articleshow/79519128.cms||Manvir Saini
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||BSc and DVoc students can now become engineers, courtesy RTU lateral entry plan||JAIPUR: In a first, the Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) has allowed lateral entry for BSc and bachelor of vocational education students in second year BTech degree programnme. The move has been taken to increase enrolment in engineering colleges and to provide BSc students a chance to enrol in an employable course. The decision will be an opportunity to lakhs of students who have completed their BSc from degree colleges. The provision has been introduced considering the fact that density of engineers in the state is way less than the national average and other competitive states, said RTU VC RA Gupta. He added that this would also provide a new lease of life to the engineering colleges struggling for students. “Every year, almost 90% of the engineering colleges are not able to fill their seats at the entry-level. They, however, can fill the seats in the second year,” said Gupta. In the last five years, more than 30 engineering colleges have shut down for want of students. The decision was taken after feedback from students, colleges and experts. Before admission in the engineering colleges, the candidate has to clear two bridge courses to take their understanding to the second year of engineering classes. “The three bridge courses have been designed after carefully studying the syllabus of the BSc and BVoc. It will help these students to adjust and orient in the second year of engineering,” said DK Palwalia, dean academic affairs, RTU. The three courses include fundamental of engineering mathematics for BVoc students. For BSC students, engineering graphics and drawing is a must. The course in programming for problem-solving is for students of both the streams. Reacting on the move, Puneet Sharma, a higher education expert, said it will have multiple implications in the economy, society and gender balance. “The fall in numbers of engineering grads in the last 10 years has affected the economy of the state. The engineering grads are more employable than the plain BSc grad as per the market standard in India. A large section of students who could not able to make up their mind for engineering at class XII can switch their stream,” said Sharma. He also felt that in BSc, the share of girls is higher than boys, which meant that the beneficiary of the scheme would be girls. “The level of education is directly connected to the status of women in society. More women engineers mean more independent and employable women,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsc-and-dvoc-students-can-now-become-engineers-courtesy-rtu-lateral-entry-plan/articleshow/79519134.cms||Shoeb Khan
December 2, 2020||Meerut||Meerut cattle owners left in the lurch as Masterplan 2021 end approaches||Meerut: Urban India’s unique growth pangs have come to the fore in the city. Sandwiched between court orders and uncaring civic authorities, 900 livestock owners with cattle sheds inside city limits bemoan that they latter have refused land grant for a proposed cattle colony citing they don’t have space.As pressure to leave municipal limits rises, cattle owners complain they don’t know where to take their 28,000 milch cows and buffaloes. “With no alternative in sight, should we sell them to slaughterhouses?” they lament.Meerut’s Masterplan 2021, made way back in 2003, had provisions for cattle colonies. But with a year before it expires, not a single colony has been developed on ground.Responding to a complaint filed by RTI activist Lokesh Khurana on the state’s Integrated Grievance Redressal System (IGRS), the chief town planner (CTP) said after the municipal corporation put the ball in the court of Meerut Development Authority (MDA), the proposal for developing a cattle colony was mooted and approved in a MDA board meeting, and directions were given for land survey in two villages, covering 19,600 sqm and 27,100 sqm respectively, which was conducted in August 2019. The survey revealed that one of the two land banks was unfit for developing a cattle colony, while the other was under litigation. “We don’t have any land bank left that fulfills the need,” the CTP said.Meanwhile, a corporation official said MDA is responsible for space for cattle colony has to be provided by MDA. “We’re determined to clear the city of dairies as per the high court order,” he said.The matter has been pending for 20 years. In 1998, Allahabad high court had ordered relocation of dairies outside city limits, which has not been complied with. Thereafter on April 16, 2019, the HC gave a stern order to bothe the corporation and MDA to comply with its 1998 order, and asked them to present a compliance report on June 30.Dairies are present in every nook and corner of the city — from Thapar Nagar, Ghosipura and Shastri Nagar to Zakir Colony and Mission Compound. Out of 80 wards, 58 have dairies.RTI petitioner Khurana said, “Over the past 20 years, MDA and municipality have only been passing the buck, without taking any concrete step. How can they uproot the dairies without giving them space to relocate?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-cattle-owners-left-in-the-lurch-as-masterplan-2021-end-approaches/articleshow/79516681.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 2, 2020||Trichy||Panchayat prez held for mining river sand||Trichy: The Thirumayam police in Pudukottai district arrested a 43-year-old man for illegally mining river sand on Tuesday. While the man escaped from police custody hours after his arrest, police secured him along with the president of Ayingudi panchayat, Rajamanickam, who aided him in his escape. Pudukottai district SP L Balaji Saravanan sent a team to Kadiyapatti where illegal sanding mining was said to be taking place. The team arrested R Venkatesh and seized a mini truck from the Selvamani river. However he escaped from police custody in a car. When his car was chased and intercepted near Thirumayam bus stand, he escaped on a motorcycle. He was later arrested from his home in Kadiyapatti. Rajamanickam’s brother-in-law, Shanmugaraj, who owns the seized mini truck, is absconding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/panchayat-prez-held-for-mining-river-sand/articleshow/79519116.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Nanded gurdwara fears Act amendment, minister denies||Aurangabad: The Sachkhand Hazuri Khalsa Diwan has urged the state governor not to allow any amendment to the Nanded Sikh Gurudwara Sachkhand Shri Hazur Apchalnagar Sahib Act 1956, but the MVA government has denied any such move. “We suspect that the Maharashtra government is taking steps to amend section 6 of the Act, which deals with the constitution of the gurdwara board, Highly influential politicians want to strike down the composition provided under section 6 of the Act that deals with appointment of members on the Diwan board,” Diwan president Sardar Manjeet Singh told TOI. State public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, who is also the guardian minister of Nanded, has been accuse of being in favour the amendment, but he denied any such move by the state government. “There is no such move at the moment. The Act is a state Act. For making any amendment, it will have to be tabled in the cabinet before taking to the House for the approval,” Chavan told TOI. The minister said the BJP government, led by Devendra Fadnavis, amended the act and that instead of getting a member elected from the existing ones, they started the practice of directly nominating the president of the board. Referring to the letters sent to the state governor’s office, Chavan said it is too premature to make such a demand. Nanded gurdwara president Bhupinder Singh Manhas said, “Unless and until a new committee is constituted and all the representatives of the Sikh community are heard, no amendment should be made to the act, particularly section 6.” “The Diwan thwarted earlier attempts by the state government to have its direct say in the appointment of members at the board by challenging them in court,” said lawyer Ganesh Gadhe, who had represented the Diwan in the case. The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court had on April 30 this year quashed the appointment of four members as well as the government notification. Later, the Supreme Court upheld the order. “As per section 6 (1) (VIII), four members can be nominated from the Huzur Khalsa Diwan on the board. However, the state government through a notification dated June 21, 2019 appointed four people on the gurdwara board without making any inquiry/consent of the Diwan general body,” said Gadhe. Members of the Diwan said that they have reached out to the Prime Minister also with a request to ensure that the act is not amended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nanded-gurdwara-fears-act-amendment-minister-denies/articleshow/79516701.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Police raid MLA Ganesh’s home looking for ex-PA’s mobile & sim||Kollam/Kozhikode: Police on Tuesday raided the residences of K B Ganesh Kumar MLA and his former personal assistant Pradeep Kumar Kottathala on a day that also saw the latter getting conditional bail. A joint team of Bekal and local police officers raided Ganesh’s residence in Pathanapuram to seize a mobile phone and sim card used by Pradeep, who was arrested last week for threatening a witness in the actress assault and molestation case. Vipin Lal, a Bekal native who had turned approver in the case, had filed a complaint with police alleging intimidation over phone and through letters. The raid at the Pathanapuram MLA’s residence failed to unearth the evidence sought by the team. Ganesh had sacked Pradeep following his arrest on November 24. Conditional bail for Pradeep In granting bail to Pradeep, the Hosdurg judicial first class magistrate court directed him to report before the investigation officer twice a month and barred him from entering Bakel police station limits, except for compliance of bail conditions. The court also warned him against trying to intimidate or influence witnesses. The prosecution argued that the accused would try to influence witnesses if released on bail. Pradeep’s counsel, meanwhile, told the court that the case was part of a conspiracy by top police officials and that the threatening letters claimed to have been received by Lal were forged. Police had not been able to take the accused to Kollam while he was in police custody for four days till Sunday to gather crucial evidence, including the sim card and phone which are suspected to have been used by Pradeep to call a relative of Lal on January 28. Police, had, during the investigation found that the sim card was procured from Tirunelveli and its tower location was traced to Pathanapuram where the mobile number of Pradeep could also be traced to during the time of the call. According to police, Pradeep refused to cooperate with the interrogation and has said that he discarded the phone and sim card while travelling in a train. Eerie silence over raid Ganesh and his Kerala Congress (B), meanwhile, seem to playing it safe by not airing their ire over the raid. There are allegations that Pradeep was acting at the behest of the state legislator to influence Lal to issue a statement before court in favour of actor Dileep, the eighth accused in the assault case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/police-raid-mla-ganeshs-home-looking-for-ex-pas-mobile-sim/articleshow/79517822.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Meerut||With Jan deadline approaching, RTO to stop work of all vehicles without high security registration plates||Meerut: Meerut regional transport office (RTO) authorities have announced that with immediate effect, they will stop all vehicles without high security registration plates (HSRP) from plying in the city. From January, when these plates become mandatory in Uttar Pradesh, they will also start filing challans against them. The RTO said the decision was taken as locals continue to be lax about getting HSRPs.TOI had earlier reported about the January deadline set by the state government for HSRPs. From January onwards, those found driving vehicles without these number plates will be penalised.“January 2020 was set as deadline for getting HSRPs, but we initiated this step as we saw that city residents are not complying with the orders. Under this move, the RTO won’t conduct any work related to any vehicle unless they have HSRP,” said Meerut regional transport officer Vijay Kumar.HSRPs are available with car dealers and other private players who have been given the task by the registered company authorized to make these plates. “HSRPs are available at between Rs 50 and Rs 600, depending on the type of vehicle,” said Kumar.HSRPs cannot be tampered with or removed, as they have a special lock system in place. While the plates have already been made mandatory in Delhi, they will become mandatory in UP starting January 2021.The plates are made of aluminum and will have unique features with a nine-digit code, which will help trace any history of challans from the registration number. It will also have a built-in GPS system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/with-jan-deadline-approaching-rto-to-stop-work-of-all-vehicles-without-high-security-registration-plates/articleshow/79516688.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Med camp for ex-soldiers||Jaisalmer: As a part of the golden jubilee celebrations of the 1971 Indo-Pak war victory, a medical camp was organised at Jaisalmer Military Station for ex-servicemen. The Battle Axe Division organised the camp, which witnessed active participation of ex-servicemen, women and their kin. The camp, in addition to providing medical facility and advice, also endeavoured to create awareness about Covid-19 pandemic and preventive measures. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/med-camp-for-ex-soldiers/articleshow/79519180.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Nashik||Search for NOTA leads to nowhere||Aurangabad: A section of voters searched for None of The Above (NOTA) option during voting for the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency on Tuesday, but found that the option does exist for the MLC poll. Ritesh Wadgaokar, a graduate voter, said, “While there were 35 candidates in a fray, I did not want to vote for any of them. I wanted to use NOTA,” he said. Yogesh Dahibhate, another voter, said even the booth-level election staff was unaware of absence of NOTA. Returning officer Deepak Muglikar said, “The NOTA option is available only for the general elections. The point was brought to the notice of all election machinery during official training.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/search-for-nota-leads-to-nowhere/articleshow/79516686.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||BJP neta levels graft charges on Rajasthan govt over smart power meters||JAIPUR: Former minister and BJP leader Arun Chaturvedi has alleged corruption in the procurement of smart meters and threatened to launch agitation if the discoms did not withdraw the step. Ironically, the BJP leader is opposing a Central government sponsored scheme to reduce power pilferage. Chaturvedi said the state government, instead of giving relief to the people during the pandemic, increased power tariff and is now planning to target the customer by installing smart meters in place of electronic meters. Chaturvedi said the discoms had decided to install smart meters in Kota, Bikaner and Bharatpur but due to the resistance of the people the discoms had to take back their decision. He said Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal had also joined the protest there. But he said the JVVNL is now trying to install smart meters in Jaipur city areas. He said it will increase the power bills. He said the discoms had decided to charge Rs 2,500 for singe phase meters and Rs 4,000 for smart meters. Jaipur discom plans to introduce smart meters in select areas of the city in which consumers have the option to pre-pay their bills and get daily updates on their mobiles of power consumption. The consumers, who opt for pre-payment will get a discount of 15 paise per unit as an incentive. JVVNL plans to install about 2.8 lakh smart meters in selected areas of Jaipur and Tonk districts in first phase. The meters will be installed in areas where power pilferage is high. The present number of consumers in Jaipur city is around 8 lakh, of which smart meters will be installed for 2.75 lakh consumers while 5,000 meters are meant for Tonk, according to JVVNL officials. The Rs 193-crore project is funded on a 60:40 ratio by Central and state governments. He said the meters have the provision for pre-paid as well as postpaid mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-neta-levels-graft-charges-on-govt-over-smart-power-meters/articleshow/79519179.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's Ropar MLA returns to AAP, says joining Congress ‘biggest blunder’||CHANDIGARH: Ropar MLA Amarjit Singh Sandoa, who won the assembly election on AAP ticket but defected to Congress in May 2019, returned to AAP ‘unconditionally’ on Tuesday. “I tender my sincere apologies to the party high command and state leadership, who were unhappy with my decision to quit AAP. I will now work for the party like a volunteer without any ambition for a party position,” Sandoa announced on social media. “The decision to return to the party fold is the decision of my conscience and has not been taken under duress. I will continue to abide by the policies and programmes of the party and work in tandem with the state and central leadership. I tender my sincere apologies to those who were hurt by my decision to quit the party,” he said. Even though Sandoa joined Congress last year, his status in the Punjab assembly was still being examined. Meanwhile, the Congress candidate defeated by him in 2017, Barinder Singh Dhillon, has been hogging the limelight as Punjab Youth Congress president. On his decision to switch to Congress, Sandoa said, “Joining Congress was the biggest blunder of my life and I am ashamed of the decision.” He said Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had done little for the development of his constituency and that the promises made by Congress in its manifesto remain unfulfilled. Sandoa also accused the Congress and BJP of harming the interests of farmers. He alleged that the Centre and state government were resorting to draconian measures to derail the ongoing farmers protests. He claimed the AAP government in Delhi was holding hands of the farmers, currently fighting for repeal of the controversial laws. The Delhi government had put in place all facilities, including board and lodging, medicines, drinking water and makeshift lavatories near the protest venues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ropar-mla-returns-to-aap-says-joining-cong-biggest-blunder/articleshow/79519172.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Salem||16 ANPR cameras installed on Four Roads in Salem||SALEM: Police have installed 16 ANPR (automatic number-plate recognition) cameras at traffic signals on Five Roads in the city. Assistant commissioner of Salem city traffic police G Sathyamoorthy said ANPR cameras would capture traffic violators and at least 2,000 traffic violation cases could be booked in a day. Collector S A Raman had allotted Rs 9 lakh fund from the road safety fund as requested by city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar to install ANPR cameras. “Initially, we have installed 16 ANPR cameras at traffic signals on Five Roads and twin bridges,” the AC said. The cameras will capture the registration number of the vehicles involved in traffic violations. The captured feed would be relayed to the concerned RTO office to identify the vehicle owner’s address and registered mobile number. “E-challan will be sent directly to the vehicle owner’s registered mobile number once his identity is identified,” the AC said, adding that the violators must pay the fine. A special team has been formed by the city police to monitor these cases. “This team will approach the traffic violators to pay the fine,” a senior police officer said. He said all these cameras are connected with the National Information Centre in New Delhi. The centre would forward the details to the concerned police department and regional transport officials. ANPR cameras will be installed at the traffic signals at Collectorate, Four Roads, New Bus Stand, Old Bus Stand, AVR Roundana, Hasthampatty and Sundar Lodge soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/16-anpr-cameras-installed-on-four-roads-in-salem/articleshow/79519174.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Shimla||Manali-Atal Tunnel highway hit by 3 avalanches in 3 days||Manali: The Manali-Atal Tunnel highway has been hit by three avalanches in as many days, making traffic movement extremely dangerous. However, despite threat to life, tourist movement has been allowed till the tunnel. The area between Solang and Dhundi (south portal of tunnel) has received very heavy snow in the last few days. The peaks in the region are covered with over 100cm thick snow blanket. This unstable snow is triggering avalanches. Solang valley still has over 45cm thick blanket of snow, but most tourists want to visit Atal Tunnel as well. After keeping tunnel close for tourists for a week, it has again been opened. Hundreds of tourists on Tuesday reached Lahaul valley via tunnel. Tourists are stopping vehicles everywhere on the highway and getting photographed. The nullahs, which are more prone to avalanches, have more snow and tourists are stopping there for photography. Police are available at Solang and the tunnel but nobody is present in the mid-way. The Solang-Dhundi stretch, including portals of the tunnel, witness over a hundred avalanches every year. In 2017, the area had recorded 145 avalanches in January and February alone. There will be more risk after another spell of snowfall as it will form layer on existing snow. The probability of avalanches remains high between January and March. A large number of avalanche control structures are still to be built in the area to protect traffic on the highway. A BRO official said machines have been deployed round-the-clock to clear snow and avalanches from the highway. “Be it very heavy snowfall or avalanches, we are clearing it immediately and keeping the road to tunnel open in all situations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/manali-atal-tunnel-highway-hit-by-3-avalanches-in-3-days/articleshow/79519184.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Meerut||Labourer, friend booked under anti-conversion law for luring, trying to convert employer’s wife||Muzaffarnagar: An Uttarakhand labourer, 27, has been booked under provisions of new anti-conversion law of Uttar Pradesh after his employer told police in Muzaffarnagar, UP, that the man “lured and brainwashed” his wife in a bid to convert her to Islam.Police booked the accused, Nadeem Ahmad, a resident of Haridwar’s Bhagwanpur village, on Monday under the new law, apart from some provisions of Indian Penal Code (IPC). Ahmad’s friend, Salman, was also booked for abetting the crime.The labour contractor, 42, had met Ahmad in Haridwar during his work assignment there about five years ago. “Soon they became close friends and the employer even funded the wedding of Nadeem’s sister,” a police officer said.But the relationship soured a few days ago.“Ahmad has been booked under IPC sections 504 (insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace.), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and under section 3/5 of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 at Mansoorpur police station of Muzaffarnagar,” said station house officer KP Singh.This was the second case filed under the anti-conversion law after it came into force in the state. Before this, a youth in Bareilly was booked for trying to “lure and convert” a married woman.While the words “luring and enticing” are the recurring theme in both the cases filed under the new law, the statements of the women, the victims in the cases, are conspicuously missing.In Bareilly, the father of the woman came forward with a complaint. While in Muzaffarnagar, it was the husband who filed the police complaint. Police in both the cases are yet to record the women’s statements.When TOI contacted the complainant, he said, “She (his wife) was brainwashed by him and his friend. She now wants to live with him (the accused). So, I filed the police complaint.”Police teams are now conducting raids to arrest both the accused.The mother of Ahmad, whose husband passed away a few years ago, is in shock. Oblivious of the raging debate over the new law, she said, “Some case has been registered against my son by the contractor. I don’t know what went wrong. He used to come to our house so often. My son and the contactor were good friends. Even his children with his wife used to come to our house.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/labourer-friend-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-for-luring-trying-to-convert-employers-wife/articleshow/79516682.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 2, 2020||Goa||Will exclude Old Goa from PDA, says Chandrakant Kavlekar||PANAJI: Deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, who is also town and country planning (TCP) minister, announced late on Tuesday that the state government has dropped the proposal to include parts of Old Goa into the Greater Panaji Planning and development authority (GPPDA). Kavlekar,, said that he has taken into consideration the sentiments expressed by the religious bodies. “I have discussed the issue with the CM, and in order to maintain the sanctity of the shrine, came to the conclusion that the proposal of further extending the Kadamba planning area needs to be scrapped,” he said. In a statement, Kavlekar,, said that the proposal sent by the Old Goa village panchayat for including some of its areas in GPPDA was “studied” by the TCP department. While the GPPDA is headed by Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate, the Old Goa panchayat is under the control of Cumbarjua MLA Pandurang Madkaikar. Earlier in the evening, it was ports minister Michael Lobo who announced that the CM Pramod Sawant had directed Kavlekar,, to drop the proposal. He had said that he had met Sawant with a request to scrap the proposal, saying that high-rise buildings cannot be permitted in and around world heritage sites. The proposal had come under fire from politicians across parties and locals, who expressed concern that the inclusion would transform the heritage site into a concrete jungle. Earlier in the day, residents of Old Goa along with activist Prajal Sakhardande opposed the inclusion of Se Old Goa panchayat areas into the GPPDA. They said the move would have an impact on the Unesco world heritage site and alleged that it is also is an excuse to allow backdoor entry for the Bainguinim garbage plant. “The TCP minister had recently spoken of a proposal from the gram sabha of the panchayat to include Se Old Goa into the GPPDA. However, there was no gram sabha held this year due to Covid and social distancing,” social activist Glenn Cabral told reporters on Tuesday. The move was to convert areas from Milroc Fern Kadamba till Corlim, Old Goa residents said. The old GPPDA was till the Kadamba plateau, which they had also opposed.. GFP chief Vijai Sardesai had sought the intervention of Union minister for culture Prahlad Singh Patel to protect and preserve the area, and demanded that the government withdraw its decision before December 3, the feast day of St Francis Xavier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-exclude-old-goa-from-pda-says-kavlekar/articleshow/79519231.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Trichy||‘Society must support AIDS patients’||Madurai: Those affected with AIDS are immuno-compromised and are hence more prone to other illnesses, Madurai district collector T Anbalagan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating an awareness programme on Tuesday at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on the occasion of World AIDS Day. “It is necessary for such patients to exercise caution and be aware. Society must also support and be compassionate towards such patients,” said the collector. During the programme, a pledge was also undertaken and a signature campaign was launched by the collector. School students with HIV, who had performed well were also felicitated at the event. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani and deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr KV Arjun Kumar also took part. In Madurai district, there are 73 facility integrated counselling and testing centres (FICTCs), 29 integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTCs), five sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinics and three anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centres are functioning.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/society-must-support-aids-patients/articleshow/79519139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman , 65, killed in wild boar attack||Udhagamandalam: A 65-year-old woman was killed after a wild boar attacked her in Kilkotagiri area on Monday evening. A 75-year-old man also suffered injury in another attack by the wild boar. The boar first attacked Joan, a resident of Thendral Nagar, and he managed to escape with injuries to his leg. The boar, which was chasing Joan, then attacked Saroja, of the same area, who was coming from the opposite direction. Saroja died on the spot, a forest official said. The body of the victim was sent to the Kotagiri GH for postmortem, which was conducted on Tuesday. The autopsy report said Saroja had sustained fractures in chest and suffered internal bleeding, Kotagiri forest range officer Selvakumar said. Later, the body of the victim was handed over to the family. A sum of Rs 5000 was given to the victim’s family members as an initial compensation. Joan was also admitted to the same hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-65-killed-in-wild-boar-attack/articleshow/79519209.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||4 arrested for running sex determination racket||Karnal: A team of the Karnal health department and district police busted a cross-border sex determination racket with the arrest of four persons (touts), including two women. The team also recovered Rs 22,000 from their possession. However, the Uttar Pradesh-based kingpin of the racket managed to escape with the portable ultrasound machine. “We got a tip-off that some Panipat-based touts were involved in a sex-determination racket. A decoy customer was sent to one of the touts and a deal for Rs 22,000 was struck. The four touts took her to Gangoh village of Uttar Pradesh in a car, where the ultrasound was performed with a portable machine.” Karnal civil surgeon Dr Yogesh Sharma said, “When the team led by Dr Naresh Karadwal conducted the raid, all the four touts, along with the decoy customer, left for Panipat and the kingpin, who performed the ultrasound, managed to flee from the spot. But the team chased them for around 200km and managed to nab them near Sanjay Chowk in Panipat with the help of the police. The team also recovered Rs 22,000 from their possession, which was given to the decoy customer by the team,” he said. The civil surgeon said soon after nabbing the accused, a Panipat health department team was called to the spot. Panipat police registered a case against the accused, Rajwanti of Samalkha, Suman of Gharaunda, Manoj of Rana Majra village, and Sumit of Samalkha in Panipat district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-arrested-for-running-sex-determination-racket/articleshow/79519223.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 64% vote in phase 3 of rural polls, final round on December 5||JAIPUR. The third phase of zila parishad and panchayat samiti polls in 21 districts concluded on Tuesday with 63.80 per cent voters exercising their franchise. Highest polling was reported at Pipalkhunt panchayat samiti in Pratapgarh district where 82.09 per cent cast their votes while the lowest was reported at Jawala in Ajmer at 52.02 per cent. Polling began in the morning amid tight security at 7,964 booths in 52 panchayat samitis of 21 districts. Nearly 20,000 EVMs were used and more than 40,000 personnel were deployed in the third phase. Elections were held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur districts. Commissioner PS Mehra said 61.80 lakh voters exercised their franchise in the first phase, 63.18 lakh in the second phase and 63.80 lakh voters in the third phase. He appealed people to vote in maximum numbers in the fourth and last phase on December 5. Mehra said out of 55,59,791 voters, 35,47,333 exercised their franchise in the third phase. He thanked people for voting by following all the protocols of Covid. He said the third phase of elections have been successfully completed due to cooperation of voters and dedication of the district election officers, police officers and personnel involved in the election work. Mehra said polling was held by maintaining social distancing. Till 10am, the turnout was 11.60 per cent. Polling percentage reached 27.42% at noon, 49.66% by 3 pm and 61.55% at 5 pm. Counting of votes will begin at all district headquarters from 9 am on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/64-vote-in-phase-3-of-rural-polls-final-round-on-dec-5/articleshow/79519196.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Two groups clash over ‘fake voting’ in Barmer||JAISALMER: Two groups clashed with each other on Tuesday over charges of fake voting at Negda village during the third phase of polling of panchayati raj elections in Sheo police station area, Barmer. They pelted stones on each other in which three persons were injured. Police have lodged a case against 15-20 people on the report of Mathar Khan. On getting information Sheo police officer Vikram Sandhu reached the spot and pacified both the groups. The situation is under control and peaceful. There has been no other news of any untoward incident in Jaisalmer and Barmer districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-groups-clash-over-fake-voting-in-barmer/articleshow/79519225.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Charbagh station makeover to get delayed||LUCKNOW: The redevelopment of Charbagh railway station is likely to be delayed by two more years since the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) is scouting for a private firm for the project after the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) pulled out from the Rs 550 crore project. Northern Railway general manager Ashutosh Gangal said, “NBCC pulled out of the Charbagh railway station redevelopment project and RLDA is now looking for an option.” RLDA vice-chairman Ved Prakash Dudeja said, “The project is expected to be delayed. NBCC didn’t find the project financial feasible for it. A private firm will be given the project under PPP model and will be allowed to use commercial area for next 60 years to recover their investment and earn profit.” “The station has 1,16,394 sqm built up area for estate development of which 49,493 sqm is for commercial utilisation. The redeveloped station will be equipped with various amenities like basement parking, cabway underpass, direct connectivity with Metro from railway station, CCTV surveillance, centrally AC common spaces, integrated building management system, treated water for horticulture use, food courts,”said Dudeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/charbagh-stn-makeover-to-get-delayed/articleshow/79520230.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC asks AG to assist in case filed against journalists||JAIPUR: A single bench of Rajasthan High court on Monday asked the advocate general (AG) to assist the court in the case related to the lodging of FIR against two journalists including Lokendra Singh, the media advisor of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. An FIR against Singh and Sharat Kumar of a private news channel was registered by the Vidhyak Puri police station on October 1 for allegedly putting a fake news during the tussle between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his deputy Sachin Pilot. Singh, who handles the press releases of Pilot, had moved an application in the high court for relief. “The bench on October 16 had sought the case diary from the investigating officer and had asked police not to take any coercive action against the petitioner journalist,” said SS Hora, counsel for the petitioner. On Tuesday, the court said journalism would be at risk if such FIRs are lodged against journalists. “No case is made out under Sections 505(1)(B) or 505(2) of IPC,” Hora added. Hearing the arguments, the bench comprising Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma said the issue requires advocate general to assist the court in relation to the FIR against the journalists. “Let the advocate general assist the court in the next date and the copy of the petition along with other documents should be made available to his office. List the case for second week of January, 2021 and the interim protection already granted by the court shall continue till the disposal of the case,” Sharma said in the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-asks-ag-to-assist-in-case-filed-against-journalists/articleshow/79519210.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Lucknow||Recycle of change: UPPCB’s no-cost green drive sweeps away trash||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) got rid of 3621 metric tons (MT) of non-recyclable plastic in just three months without spending a single penny or harming the environment, senior officials said. The success story, which officials claimed to be a first-of-its-kind initiative in UP, was a result collaborative efforts between UPPCB and a Rajasthan-based private cement factory. Under the project, non-recyclable plastic waste from industrial units was used as raw fuel for furnaces in the cement factory. According to UPPCB officials, 48 paper recycling industries from west UP’s Muzaffarnagar (25), Meerut (17) and Ghaziabad (6) were roped in for the project. These units were collectively generating 380 metric ton of non-recyclable plastic waste every day and were burning it in furnaces, boilers, brick-making kilns and small jaggery manufacturing units. In the process, toxic fumes, greenhouse gases and unburnt particulate matter were generated. UPPCB came up with a scientific solution of co-processing plastic waste, as it has high calorific value and could be utilised as an alternative source of energy in a cement factory where the furnace temperature is over 1500 degrees Celsius.  “Earlier, plastic waste generated from paper recycling units were used in local furnaces and boilers which operated at 600-700 degrees Celsius. Even after this, huge quantity of waste material was thrown in open farm fields or empty land. UPPCB then joined hands with UltraTech cement factory in Shambhupura, Chittorgarh (Rajasthan) for the use of plastic waste as an alternative fuel in cement kiln. With this, the condition of environment improved drastically,” said chairperson of UP Recycled Paper Manufacturing Association Pankaj Agrawal. Talking to TOI, member secretary of UPPCB Ashish Tiwari said, “Initially, paper recycling units were reluctant to dispose of plastic waste through co-processing as its owners lacked knowledge of regulatory norms and associated risk to their businesses. After discussions with stakeholders for two years, it was unanimously decided that plastic waste generated from paper manufacturing units would be sent to cement manufacturing plants.” Officials of the cement factory said they started mapping of plastic waste in west UP in 2016 and met UPPCB officials to initiate steps to check improper disposal of plastic waste.  “Considering the success of the pilot project, we will now implement it in the entire state,” said UPPCB officer Ashish Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recycle-of-change-uppcbs-no-cost-green-drive-sweeps-away-trash/articleshow/79520244.cms||Arvind Chauhan
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Plea in HC seeks removal of unauthorised statues||Madurai: Madras high court on Tuesday sought the state government’s response in a plea seeking to remove unauthorised statues at public places and roadsides in the state. A division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi gave the direction after hearing a public interest litigation filed by V Vaira Sekar, a resident of Thanjavur district. He pointed out that several statues of political leaders are being installed at public places without obtaining proper permission. People gather and garland these statues during the birth and death anniversaries of leaders. He stated that there is a race among political parties and communal outfits to grab public places or road margins to install statues of their leaders. Since these statues are left unprotected, they are being damaged by miscreants often disturbing social harmony. He stated that such unauthorised statues at public places and road margins also cause traffic congestion and hindrance to the people. Though it is the duty of the local body and highways officials to prevent the erection of such unauthorised statues, no steps were taken by them. Hence, the petitioner moved HC Madurai bench seeking to remove all such statues in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-seeks-removal-of-unauthorised-statues/articleshow/79519218.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 89L swindled in online fraud cases in Karnal||Karnal: As many as 89 cases of online fraud involving Rs 89.47 lakh have been reported in Karnal district so far this year, according to a district police data. On an average, at least eight persons were duped every month in fraud cases through debit and credit cards, internet banking, etc. Of the 89 cases, only five have been solved so far, with two cases in trial stage, 38 under investigation and 44 untraced. According to data, 15 cases were reported in January, nine in February, five in March, two each in April and May, 10 each in June, July and November, 12 in August, six in September and eight in October. The modus operandi of the fraudsters included exchanging debit and credit cards, and sending SOS messages for financial help posing as victims’ friends or relatives. In some cases, miscreants pretending to be bank officials called up the victims and took their bank details and later withdrew money from their accounts. Last year, the district police had registered 117 cases of online cheating involving a total of Rs 3.80 crore, of which only six cases were solved, while the rest are either under investigation or untraced. In 2018, 119 similar cases were registered in Karnal district, out of which 17 were solved, while the remaining are still untraced.  Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said, “The cyber cell is regularly investigating fraud cases. Some cases have been traced and investigations are underway in the rest. These cases will also be solved soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-89l-swindled-in-online-fraud-cases-in-karnal/articleshow/79519259.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Empty parcel in lieu of phone, courier handed over to police||Chandigarh: A city resident ordered a cellphone worth Rs 13,000 online, but received an empty box. The alert resident nabbed the courier and handed him over to the police.Amit Kumar, a resident of Maloya, said in his police complaint, “I had placed an order for a cellphone on Realme’s official site on November 22. A man called me up on Monday evening and said he was coming to my house to deliver the parcel.” Amit had chosen the option of cash on delivery. “I received the parcel and paid the cash. But I felt something wrong when I held the box. I asked the courier to wait and started video-recording as I unboxed it. I was shocked to find it empty.”Amit then called up the police and handed over the courier to them.Maloya police station SHO Chiranji Lal said, “We have received the cheating complaint and are verifying it. Officials of the courier company have been asked to join the investigation. They have been told to give details of parcels delivered on the day. After investigation, a case will be registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/empty-parcel-in-lieu-of-phone-courier-handed-over-to-police/articleshow/79517829.cms||Pawan Tiwari
December 2, 2020||Coimbatore||18 fresh cases take tally to 7,441 in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 18 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 7,441 on Tuesday. Ninteen patients recovered and were discharged on the day. With this, 7,226 patients were cured, maintaining the recovery rate at 97%. Of the new cases, four were reported from Ooty while the rest were reported from Gudalur and Coonoor blocks. Of the 173 active cases, at least 14 people are being treated at government and private facilities in Coimbatore while 30 patients are kept in home quarantine. The rest of the cases are admitted in government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/18-fresh-cases-take-tally-to-7441-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79519245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Madurai||‘Society must support AIDS patients’||Madurai: Those affected with AIDS are immuno-compromised and are hence more prone to other illnesses, Madurai district collector T Anbalagan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating an awareness programme on Tuesday at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on the occasion of World AIDS Day.“It is necessary for such patients to exercise caution and be aware. Society must also support and be compassionate towards such patients,” said the collector.During the programme, a pledge was also undertaken and a signature campaign was launched by the collector. School students with HIV, who had performed well were also felicitated at the event. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani and deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr KV Arjun Kumar also took part.In Madurai district, there are 73 facility integrated counselling and testing centres (FICTCs), 29 integrated counselling and testing centres (ICTCs), five sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinics and three anti-retroviral therapy (ART) centres are functioning.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/society-must-support-aids-patients/articleshow/79519191.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Goa||Drop non-performing mins to win 2022 polls: Michael Lobo to Goa CM||PANAJI/CALANGUTE: Ports minister Michael Lobo on Tuesday urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to drop non-performing ministers from the cabinet in order to win the 2022 assembly election. Lobo said that BJP has 27 MLAs, and that Sawant can induct new ministers into the cabinet for better government performance. Lobo told TOI that in the past, he asked then chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar to drop non-performing ministers, but he failed to do so, and a lot of ministers in that government lost the 2017 assembly election. He said that cabinet reshuffles are the CM’s prerogative. He said that he himself too could be dropped if Sawant thinks he isn’t performing. He added that the CM knows who works and who doesn’t. “I have completed 15 years as member of BJP, and the chief minister will take a right decision at the right time,” he said. Lobo, who represents the tourism hub of Calangute, said that the tourism ministry should be given to someone who is “better able to do a good job”. Speaking to reporters at Calangute, he said he has already discussed the issue with the CM, BJP state president Sadanand Tanavade, and the party’s organisating secretary. “I have told them that the tourism portfolio should be given to someone who understands what’s going on, someone who listens to stakeholders,” said Lobo, a hotelier. “Tourism is an important portfolio and an evolving industry,” Lobo added, saying that everyone in the coastal belt is involved in it in some way or the other. “Important portfolios should be given to capable people. Tourism is the highest employment-generating industry. If you look at the coastal belt from Arambol to South Goa, tourism is the base. It’s the people’s livelihood. This is our economy. There are many of us who want things to improve in the coastal belt.” He suggested that Mandrem MLA Dayanand Sopte be made tourism minister in place of incumbent Manohar Ajgaonkar. “Pernem has two MLAs, and one has to be ministe,” he said. “It could be Sopte, who is a simple man who listens to what the people are saying. We want someone who will listen to us and do good work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drop-non-performing-mins-to-win-22-polls-lobo-to-cm/articleshow/79519310.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kozhikode||Muslim outfits support farmers’ agitation in Delhi||Kozhikode: Muslim organisations in Kerala have expressed solidarity with the farmers who are staging agitation in Delhi against the new farmers law. The Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS) will organize ‘Solidarity Meet’ at 116 centres in the state on December 2. A news release issued after the meeting of the state secretariat of the SYS said that the new act, which will lead to the complete destruction of the agriculture system in the country, should be withdrawn. The new law that withdraws support price for agricultural products and forces the farmers to go for contract farming will break the backbone of the farmers in the country. By enacting such a law, the government has proved that it is not with the people, SYS said. Wisdom Islamic Organisation has asked the people of every state to join the agitation staged by farmers in North India. “It is highly deplorable that the issue is getting drowned in the noise created by the elections to the local bodies,” said Wisdom general secretary T K Ashraf. Regretting the laxity on the part of the secular forces to effectively utilise the opportunity, he said voices should be raised against the law that surrenders the interests of the country before the corporates. Ashraf said the central government had tried to portray every issue from a communal angle as it did in the case of anti-CAA agitation. “But such tactics will not work in the case of farmer agitations,” he said. Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen (KNM)-Markazudawa said the repressive measures adopted by the government will not be enough to douse the fire ignited by the agitation. A statement issued by Markazudawa secretariat said it is the duty of every citizen in the country to express solidarity with the farmers. The statement asked the national parties to come forward to take leadership of the agitation to force the Centre to withdraw the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/muslim-outfits-support-farmers-agitation-in-delhi/articleshow/79517847.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Shimla||Kullu mason forced to live in gorge in bone-chilling cold||Leh: A non-local labourer who was forced to live in a gorge in intense cold here as his employer did not pay him wages was evacuated to a safer place by the administration on Monday, officials said. The administration came to the help of Deepak, a resident of Kullu in Himachal Pradesh and working as a mason here, after the video of his plight went viral on social media. Deepak had been living in the gorge for the past 13 days, surviving the sub-zero temperatures with grit and having only noodles to consume. He is seen saying in the video that he was working with a contractor in Turtuk and Diskit villages in Nubra for the past six months and he owed him Rs 35,000. When he demanded the money to go back to his home state, the contractor refused. “As soon as we got information, the administration officials along with a police team started to trace him. He (Deepak) was found in a gorge and was brought to the labour office last night and was given food, clothing and a room with a heating facility. Now arrangements are being made for his return to his home state. Action will be initiated against the contractor as per the law,” assistant commissioner, labour, Leh, Ghulam Nabi Tak said. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/kullu-mason-forced-to-live-in-gorge-in-bone-chilling-cold/articleshow/79519315.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||No spike in Covid-19 cases post Diwali in Madurai city||Madurai: Officials of Madurai Corporation heaved a sigh of relief as Covid-19 cases has not spiked in Madurai as anticipated after the festival season.Madurai city maintained the number of active cases around 160 this week, as the number stood at 163 on Monday, while it was 151 on November 15, the day after Diwali festival. “We expected a spike in the numbers as people have ignored the precautionary measures and gathered in large numbers in public places as well as in their houses. But we have not seen a spike so far and it is an encouraging sign,” said an official from Madurai Corporation.At present, the corporation reports less than 20 cases daily, which at times go down to single digits. Of the 163 active cases on Monday, zone one had 33 cases, zone two had 61 cases, zone 3 had 34 cases and Zone 4 had 35 cases.“We have not brought down testing. Anywhere between 2,300 and 2,500 tests are being conducted every day by the corporation. Random checks are conducted although people are increasingly hesitant to get themselves tested. The city reports 15 cases daily on average now,” another health official said.One reason for the low number of Covid-19 cases is exposure to the virus. Many people have developed immunity against Covid-19 virus, which came to light in the recent sero survey. It was found that 42% people in the city became exposed to the virus and developed immunity.Efforts taken by the corporation such as distribution of siddha, homeopathic and vitamin tablets could have prevented symptoms of the virus in people who were exposed to it, the official said.He also said that the virus is still life threatening to a few and one should not lower the guard. All precautionary steps such as distancing, wearing masks and washing hands with soaps should be followed until the virus is tackled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-spike-in-covid-19-cases-post-diwali-in-madurai-city/articleshow/79519260.cms||V Devanathan
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Homecoming to city’s clean air for Olympian Anirban Lahiri||Chandigarh: Whenever Indian record holder and Olympian Anirban Lahiri lands in the Tricity for a golf championship and takes a deep breath of the relatively clear air that he cherishes, the ace international does not need to check into a hotel. Doors of families known to him since ages open for a warm stay. A host of friends, mentors and golfers residing in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali from his childhood days and his subsequent career as an amateur and professional on the PGTI vie for his company.His dream to play the apex tours on the global greens led Lahiri to sacrifice the comforts of home, family and friends and he moved lock, stock and barrel to the United States in 2015 to play the elite PGA Tour with the likes of Dustin Johnson, Henrik Stenson, Zach Johnson and Tiger Woods where his total earnings on the US PGA Tour till now are a staggering $5.56 million! This time around as he gets to play on the PGTI after a gap of six years, Lahiri has had to turn down requests from the families of Shubhankar Sharma and former course manager at the Shivalik Golf Club, Chandimandir, Lt Col Gurdial Singh (retd), to stay at their homes. “Since the Covid protocols are in place and I would be going in and out of the golf course, I have had to express my regrets to my beloved friends and will stay in a hotel. My father, an Army doctor, was posted at the Western Command hospital and I spent time in the Tricity playing at the Army’s golf course also at Chandimandir,” Lahiri told the TOI.The spur for Lahiri’s career as an amateur and professional came from Tricity greens. He won his first amateur event, the Samarvir Singh Sahi trophy, in 2004 at the CGC and his first professional win at the Panchkula Golf Club in the guise of the Rs 30 lakh Haryana Open in 2009. His first professional win came on the back of a memorable 69 during the final round at the PGC when the flags were described by Lahiri as “murderous”, so tough was their positioning. Lahiri went on to represent India in the 2016 Rio Olympics, won seven international titles, played a record 16 Major championships and bested Jeev’s record for the best finish in a Major with a tied-5th at the 2015 PGA Championship.Commenting on the distinction enjoyed by Tricity greens, Lahiri told the TOI, “The CGC course has a lot of character. It is an old-fashioned course with its abundance of trees, some tees have trees looming right in front of them like the 7th and 17th holes. The CGC is a driver's course where if you hit the ball well and place it in the right places, you have a very good chance of scoring low. On the other hand, the PGC has more undulations and the wind comes into play. The green complexes at the PGC are contoured and very challenging, you need to approach the greens in the right places to score birdies.”“I reckon that the greens at the CGC are currently playing between 8 to 9.2 on the stimpmeter wheareas the speeds on the US PGA Tour are between 12 to 13. The main challenge for me will be to adapt quickly to the drastic change in playing conditions and that will determine how competitive I get this week at the Jeev Invitational,” Lahiri signed off before rushing to an early evening engagement with Chandigarh friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/homecoming-to-citys-clean-air-for-olympian-anirban-lahiri/articleshow/79517835.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Amritsar||7 cops booked for corruption||Amritsar: The Punjab state vigilance bureau on Tuesday registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy charges against seven police officials of Chattiwind police station of Amritsar district. In an official release issued on Tuesday, a department spokesperson said the case was registered on the basis of video evidence. Four cops have been arrested. The spokesperson said Gurharpreet Singh of Chattiwind village had damaged a CCTV camera outside a store run by Avtar Singh and Kanwalpreet Singh of the same village on August 22, 2018. An upset and angry Kanwalpreet had gone to Gurharpreet’s house along with other villagers. But Gurharpreet and his accomplices had attacked Kanwalpreet, Baldev Singh, and Sukhwant Singh, who were accompanying him, and fled from the spot. A case under various sections of IPC was registered against Gurharpreet and others. Later, ASIs Mahinder Singh and Kuldeep Singh (now dead), head constables Palwinder Singh and Ram Singh, constables Rajbir Singh, Harpinder Singh and Palwinder Singh, and home guard Lata Singh took Rs 65,000 in bribe on various occasions from complainant Baldev’s brother Sukhdev Singh, who prepared video evidence against the cops. The bureau has arrested Ram Singh, Palwinder, Harpinder and Lata Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/7-cops-booked-for-corruption/articleshow/79519275.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||BJP says DMK bid to instigate farmers in TN has fallen flat||Tuticorin: Accusing the opposition of instigating the Delhi protests by farmers against the farm bills, BJP state president L Murugan said in Tamil Nadu, the DMK tried to instigate the farmers but their effort failed. “The farmers realised that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a friend and protector of farmers,” said Murugan.Interacting with reporters at the Tuticorin airport on Tuesday before inspecting arrangements for the conclusion of the month-long Vetrivel yatra organised by the party, Murugan said Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan will participate at Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district on December 7. The marathon event was stopped in view of Cyclone Nivar.Asked if the BJP was keenly awaiting Rajinikanth’s decision on entering politics, he said the actor was “a good spiritual person” with good nationalist ideologies. “We will welcome it if he starts a party. The BJP will welcome whatever decision he takes,” Murugan said.On the farm bills, he said the Union government had implemented them after studying the needs of farmers, their long-standing demand of empowering them to fix the right price for their farm produce and the Swaminathan committee report. Murugan said the farm bills would empower farmers to fix the price for their produce.“There are times when the price of tomato nose dives to Rs 1 or Rs 2 per kg. Unable to sell it, the vegetables are used as cattle feed. According to the farm bills, if the farmer is entering into an agreement with a company to sell the same for Rs 30 or Rs 50 per kg, he will sell it for that price even if the price crashes locally,” Murugan said.The bills also facilitate multinational companies to establish cold storage facilities which will result in increased production. It will also help farmers directly export. “So, the bills are beneficial to farmers. Farmers are welcoming it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-says-dmk-bid-to-instigate-farmers-in-tn-has-fallen-flat/articleshow/79519238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Morbi clock makers seek land for toy hub||Ahmedabad: The clock makers of Morbi have asked the Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) to allocate land for development of a toy manufacturing hub near the town, which is known for manufacturing of ceramic tiles and clocks. The request comes at a time when the state government is exploring potential locations for a toy park in the state. “For the promotion of toy manufacturing and business, we need to have a toy hub or a common facility, which will have facilities such as permanent displays or exhibition centres, research and development (R&D) centres as well as sample centres, raw material and common testing lab, liaison and conference rooms,” said Jaysukh Patel, Morbi Wall Clock Manufacturers’ Alliance. “To create such a facility, around 10,000 square metres of land will be needed,” Patel added in his letter, written last week to the managing director of GIDC. The association also suggested two locations near Morbi where the state government can allocate land for the common facilities centre. Led by Patel, who is also the managing director of Ajanta-Oreva Group, about 150 small and medium enterprises in Morbi have also formed an association to manufacture electric appliances, toys and plastic products. These SMEs have joined hands to manufacture these products locally for bigger and branded players. As on now, manufacturing of such products is widely outsourced to China. According to Patel, Morbi already has some 350 units engaged in making plastic, electric and electronics products. By making some additional investments, many of these units can start making toys. “The toy hub proposed by the Morbi-based SMEs is different from the toy park being planned by the state government,” Patel added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/morbi-clock-makers-seek-land-for-toy-hub/articleshow/79519307.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Livewire kills pregnant woman in Bundi||Kota: A 27-year-old woman who was six months pregnant was killed on the spot as a 11000KV power line passing over the agriculture field she was working in fell over her. The incident occurred in Talwas village of Bundi district on Monday. Her family protested at the community health centre in Dei on Tuesday demanding compensation. The family refused to take the body for last rites. Senior officials of electricity department reached the spot and assured in writing for compensation to the kin as per government norms following which they agreed to take the body. The woman was identified as Rinku Saini, wife of Badrilal, a resident of Arneta village of Bundi district. The power line snapped and fell over the woman, Bhagirath, ASI at Dei police station said. Around 4-5 other women labourers were also working in the field, however, they escaped unhurt. Further investigation into the matter is underway under 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/livewire-kills-pregnant-woman/articleshow/79519336.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: A year on, rules to appoint HIV ombudsman not notified||PANAJI: It’s been a year since the state government drafted model rules under the HIV and AIDS (Prevention and Control) Act, 2017, for appointment of an ombudsman. The rules, however, are yet to be notified. The appointment of an ombudsman will greatly help people living with HIV/AIDS seek relief in the event of an injustice being meted out to them, such as being retrenched from service when their employers learn of their illness. Presently, there is no dedicated forum that they can approach in times of distress. Dr Angelica Siona Gomes, project director at the Goa State AIDS Control Society, said the rules have been submitted to the public health department and that it is for the department to get them notified. Among the many provisions, the rules empower the ombudsman to pass interim orders in case of medical emergency, without hearing the parties. The ombudsman will also have the power to pass orders pertaining to withdrawal and rectification of the violation, counselling and social service. Ashpak Shaik, executive director of the not-for-profit LifeLine Foundation that works for people living with HIV/AIDS, said a redressal system for people afflicted with HIV/AIDS is greatly needed as it is difficult for them to get relief under the present system when their human rights are violated. “They continue to be stigmatised and discriminated against in hospitals. We have seen cases where people have lost their right to property due to the illness. Their families have told them that since they will die soon, they shouldn’t claim their right to property,” he said. Peter Borges, president of Human Touch Foundation, another not-for-profit organisation that works for the welfare of people having HIV/AIDS, said the discrimination people having HIV/AIDS face is profound. “Due to the pandemic, there has been a delay in releasing payment under the Dayanand Social Security Scheme (DSSS), which many of those living with HIV/AIDS rely upon as most do not have a source income,” he said. Shaik said some lose their jobs when their employers learn of their illness or are thrown out of their jobs unlawfully in the absence of a dedicated redressal forum. “The employer has no right to remove a person from the job only because of his HIV status. The employer will have the right to throw him out of the job only if he is unable to deliver in his job due to ill health,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/a-yr-on-rules-for-appointing-hiv-ombudsman-yet-to-be-notified/articleshow/79519349.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Death changes RS election math||Gandhinagar: The death of BJP Rajya Sabha (RS) member Abhay Bharadwaj on Tuesday, coming not long after the demise of Congress RS member Ahmed Patel, has changed political equations again in Gujarat. After the death of Ahmed Patel last week, the BJP was confident of winning the seat comfortably in the re-election. However, with the death of Bharadwaj, the Congress is now hopeful of retaining Ahmed Patel’s seat. According to key sources in the government, if a re-election for both the vacant RS seats is held simultaneously, the BJP will win both only if there is cross-voting from opposition MLAs. If the Election Commission of India decides to announce separate re-elections, the BJP will easily win both on the basis of its numbers in the assembly. “The BJP will certainly prefer that re-elections to the two seats be held separately,” a source said. At present, the BJP has 111 MLAs in the Gujarat assembly, and like in the recent RS election, it is likely to get the votes of two BTP MLAs and one NCP MLA. The Congress, which has the strength of 65, could get one additional vote of independent MLA Jignesh Mevani. To win an RS seat, a party will require 60 first-preference votes from the MLAs. “Even with the help of two BTP and one NCP votes, the BJP tally will reach 114. It will require six more first-preference votes for getting both of its nominees elected,” said the source. “Once again, the BJP might look at the prospect of Congress MLAs cross-voting or resigning before the elections.” Sources added that the Congress will also deploy all its might to ensure that it is able to retain Ahmed Patel’s seat. “In the recent RS election, the BJP snatched one seat from the Congress on the basis of resignations by Congress MLAs,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/death-changes-rs-election-math/articleshow/79519339.cms||Kapil Dave
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Passengers have stinking train journey due to blocked toilets||Barinderjit.SalujaMohali: With services derailed first by the pandemic and then the farmers’ agitation, passengers on Jaynagar-Amritsar Humsafar Express found themselves facing the problem of blocked and stinking toilets. They believe that the railway employees sanitising the coaches forgot all about maintenance work. Arvind Singh, a resident of Chandigarh, who boarded the Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express from Ambala Cantt, said, “After boarding the train from Ambala Cantt, when I went to use the toilet, I found the washbasin choked with dirty water. It was impossible to use the toilet. I went to the adjoining coach and found the same situation. We complained to the TTE but in vain.”He said other passengers were also complaining about the poor condition of toilets. Arvind said the coach was also not clean and the floor was filthy and unhygienic.Talking to TOI on the phone, another passenger said, “We had a tough time reaching Chhapra. We had to refrain from using the toilet for about nine hours. We could use the toilet when the train pulled over at some station. Complaints were made at the railway station and also on Twitter. We were told to contact the DM, Railways by sharing the mobile number, which we did, but by the time action was takenm we had reached Chhapra.”Railway authorities said they would look in to the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/passengers-have-stinking-train-journey-due-to-blocked-toilets/articleshow/79517844.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Railways to operate more daily specials from Dec 4||Madurai: The railway board has approved the operation of daily special trains from Friday. Train No. 06105 Chennai Egmore - Tiruchendur daily special will leave Egmore at 4pm from December 4 and reach Tiruchendur at 8.05am the next day. In the return direction, Train No. 06106 Tiruchendur – Chennai Egmore daily special will leave Tiruchendur at 6.50pm from December 5 and reach Egmore at 10.45am the next day. Composition of the trains is one first class AC, one AC 2 tier, one AC 3 tier, nine sleeper class, four general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Train No. 06729 Madurai – Punalur daily special will leave Madurai at 11.30pm from December 4 and reach Punalur at 10.20am, the next day. In the return direction, train No. 06730 Punalur – Madurai daily mail express special will leave Punalur at 5.20pm from December 5 and reach Madurai at 6.20am the next day. Composition of the trains is one AC 3 tier, 10 sleeper class, seven general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans. Train No. 02668 Coimbatore – Nagercoil will start at 7.30pm and reach Nagercoil at 5.05am the next day. The train service will commence on December 8. In the return direction train No. 02667 Nagercoil – Coimbatore will start from December 9. It will have stoppages at Tirupur, Erode Karur, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Vanchi Maniyachi, Tirunelveli and Valliyoor. Train No. 06127 Chennai Egmore to Guruvayur will start at 8.25am and reach Guruvayur at 6.40am the next day. The train will commence operation on December 8. Train No. 06128 Guruvayur to Chennai Egmore will start at 9.30pm and reach Egmore at 8.35pm the next day. The train will begin operations on December 9. Train No. 06851 Chennai Egmore – Rameswaram will start at 7.15pm and reach Egmore at 8.30am the next day from December 8. In the return direction train No. 06852 Rameswaram – Chennai Egmore will start at 5.10pm and reach Egmore at 6.45am the next day. The service will commence on December 9. Advance reservation for the trains is open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/railways-to-operate-more-daily-specials-from-dec-4/articleshow/79519312.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Jaipur||Cops arrest hacker who siphoned off Rs 86 lakh from Jalore cooperative bank in October last year||JAIPUR: Almost a year after the server of Nagrik Cooperative Bank in Jalore was hacked and Rs 86.46 lakh siphoned off, the Special Operations Group (SOG) wing of Rajasthan police on Tuesday arrested a youth. The SOG also maintained that the mastermind of the hackers’ gang is a citizen of Nigeria origin and efforts are on to nab him. Ashok Kumar Rathore, additional director general (ADG), SOG and ATS stated that on October18, 2019 the bank’s manager had complained that the server had been hacked. A sum of Rs 86,42,058 had been siphoned off. “Following technical surveillance and intense investigation the accused identified as Ayub Hasan Khan (20) a resident of Qasampur (Bareilly) was arrested. We have also seized Rs 3 lakh which was transferred in his bank account and withdrawn. The Aadhaar card of the accused is also fake.” Primary investigation suggested that the gang identify accounts with huge balances. “It was also found that the gang had opened 28 bank accounts based on fake documents. In this crime more than Rs 86 lakh were transferred in the accounts of hackers in less than two hours,” he added. According to SOG, accused Ayub Khan changed the name and address of his father by tampering with his Aadhaar card and PAN card. “He got issued 20 mobile phones and SIM cards through fake IDs and opened 20 accounts in various banks with fake names and addresses,” said a senior officer of SOG. SOG officials stated that as one of the accused has been nabbed they will unearth the whole gang. “He is just one member in the whole hacking. We have also identified a Nigerian citizen who is the mastermind of the gang. Efforts are on to arrest him and others involved in the case,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-arrest-hacker-who-siphoned-off-rs-86l-from-jalore-cooperative-bank-in-october-last-year/articleshow/79519354.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Court exempts Salman Khan from appearance in poaching case||JODHPUR: The district and sessions court on Tuesday granted Salman Khan exemption from appearance during hearing of an appeal by him against five years’ sentence for poaching of Black Buck on October 1-2, 1998. Additional district and sessions judge Brajesh Panwar, while granting the prayer for exemption, deferred the matter for hearing of the appeal to January 16. Khan’s counsel H M Saraswat on Tuesday moved an application seeking exemption stating that the outbreak of the pandemic in Mumbai and Jodhpur has turned quite serious with a sharp spike in Covid cases. “In such a situation, Khan’s travel to Jodhpur for the sake of appearance during hearing of the matter could be dangerous,” argued Saraswat in the court. Granting the prayer of Khan’s counsel, the court allowed the application for exemption from appearance and listed the matter for hearing on January 16. It may be noted that before the lockdown, the court had directed Khan to appear in the court considering his persistent exemption from appearance. Since lockdown and even after the unlock, Khan continued to seek exemption from appearance amid the apprehensions of catching the infection during his travel to Jodhpur from Mumbai and appearance in the court. It may be noted that Khan had been sentenced to 5 years’ imprisonment by the trial court on April 5, 2018 convicting him of poaching on endangered Black Buck. Khan had challenged the judgment in district & sessions court and sought suspension of sentence. The court, then allowing his plea, had granted bail to him. Co-accused in the case Saif Ali Khan, Tabu, Sonali Bendre and Neelam had, however, been acquitted by the trial court giving them benefit of doubt. State government has challenged this acquittal in the upper court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/court-exempts-salman-from-appearance-in-poaching-case/articleshow/79519344.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Extortion: Chandigarh police identifies its two cops in CCTV footage||CHANDIGARH: After scrutinizing the CCTV footage provided by a liquor trader, the UT police have identified the two head constables accused of extortion. Now, the ASP (south) would summon crime branch head constables Pawan Kumar and Anil Kumar to join the investigation. However, senior police officers said both the men were underground. On the recommendations of ASP (south) Shruti Arora, Sector 39 police had registered an extortion case against two unknown cops of the crime branch on November 29. As per complainant Suresh Kumar, a liquor trader, the two cops, using the name of crime branch, would extort money from him. The complainant, who has eight liquor vends, alleged that both would take from him Rs 96,000, that is Rs 12,000 per shop per month. Four more liquor traders have submitted a complaint against the “crime branch officials for extortion”, but have not provided any video or audio proof, said a senior cop. UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said both the cops were identified after the video proof was provided by the complainant. They are deployed in the crime branch in Sector 11. However, the SSP said there was no clear evidence against them of accepting the money in the video footage, but they were at the vends of the complainant. There was no reason to visit the vends frequently, he said. “Now, the ASP (south) will ask them to join the investigation, after which they will be arrested,” the SSP added. UT SP (crime) Manoj Kumar Meena said he has not received any formal communication about the involvement of Anil and Pawan in the extortion case and strict action would be taken against the two after the ASP (south division office) sends a letter.  “There is no clear evidence against Anil and Pawan. There is no audio recording and they were not caught red-handed,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/extortion-ut-police-identifies-its-two-cops-in-cctv-footage/articleshow/79517848.cms||Pawan Tiwari
December 2, 2020||Goa||Mean temperatures in Goa rising faster than national average||PANAJI: The state’s mean temperature is showing higher levels of increase as compared to the national average and most of this warming has taken place after the 1970s, the Goa state action plan for climate change (SAPCC) stated. The temperature will go up from the current 26.5 degree Celsius to 28.5 degree Celsius by 2035 and will rise further to 30.5 degree Celsius if mitigation measures are not put in place, the report stated. It also stated that Rs 450 crore will be needed to implement the required mitigation measures over a period of ten years. The SAPCC has been kept open for further suggestions from the public up to December 10. “Mean temperature in Goa is found to be 26.7 degree Celsius, which is higher than the national average annual temperature, which is about 23.3 degree Celsius…Mean annual temperatures in Goa may increase by around 2 degree Celsius in 2030s, and further by around 4°C by 2080s under high emission scenarios,” the report stated. The state will start experiencing heatwaves beyond the 2040s, under high emission scenarios, and forest fires and adverse impact on tourism in the state could be witnessed, as per the report. “The flood vulnerability analysis from the state reveals that much of its land is in the coastal zones, and are severely vulnerable to flooding, both from extreme rainfall events and sea-level rise. In terms of vulnerability from floods and sea-level rise the talukas of Salcete, Tiswadi, and Bardez are most vulnerable,” the report stated. The SAPCC also suggests that the increasing heat may impact the health of Goa’s residents. “This can cause health effects like dehydration, heatstroke, etc, which are known to be occurring in other states during heatwave conditions. Changing weather pattern is likely to increase the window for the occurrence of vector-borne disease. New diseases (like Kyanasur Forest Disease) can be introduced in the state,” the SAPCC stated. Ingress of water up to 40km along the rivers has been predicted. “Warmers temperatures can cause heat stress leading to altered tourist season, tourist time at the beach, etc. Increase in sea temperature and acidity level can impact the ecosystem and reduce the attractiveness of sea for tourists engaging in certain water sports activities, like snorkelling or diving. Sea level rise will lead to loss of beach, coastal erosion and impact the tourist infrastructure,” the report stated. It also speaks of imposing a green tax on the tourism sector to fund some of the mitigation measures. “Tourism is the major industrial sector in Goa. Every year, tourists visiting Goa are almost four to five times the population of Goa. Eco-tax or Green tax to combat climate change is proposed to assist in mitigation and adaptation activities of the areas which are most frequently visited by the tourist. Such taxation models are under implementation in countries like Spain,” the report stated. The total budget required for implementing the SAPCC in Goa has been projected to be Rs 465 crore for ten years, “which works out to be Rs 46.5 crore per annum and amounts to approximately 0.22% of the annual budget and 0.050 % of the Gross State Domestic Production (GSDP) of Goa”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mean-temperatures-in-goa-rising-faster-than-national-average/articleshow/79519341.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Southern coastal districts brace for heavy rain from Cyclone Burevi for three days||Madurai: The southern coastal districts stretching from Ramanathapuram to Kanyakumari are bracing for the deep depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal that may intensify into a cyclone, named Burevi, and move towards south Tamil Nadu. National Disaster Response Force personnel have reached Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and Tirunelveli districts. Ramanathapuram collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and monitoring officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav visited low lying areas in the coastal villages to check arrangements at relief camps. Pamban railway bridge was lifted for mechanised boats from the northern seas to be brought to safety in the southern seas. In all, 63 relief centres have been kept ready in Tuticorin district and the status of 637 irrigation tanks constantly monitored. A full-fledged control room has been established at the port with adequate public address systems, wireless phones and very high frequency sets kept ready for communicating with authorities concerned. Necessary equipment and manpower have been kept ready to clear trees that may fall. Fisheries department officials said 72 deep sea multi-day fishing boats in Tuticorin district have been informed of the cyclone and 64 have reached the shores. In Kanyakumari, efforts were taken to reach 172 boats fishing deep in the Arabian Sea near Lakshadweep. As many as 75 relief camps have been kept ready at strategic locations in Kanyakumari district to relocate people from low lying areas as heavy rain is expected to lash the district, collector M Aravind said. People have been asked to stay away from the beaches, streams, rivers and tanks till December 7. Kanyakumari district administration has also announced disaster management helpline numbers 1077 and 04652 – 231077. In Tenkasi district, 34 low lying areas have been identified and 364 primary response teams kept ready, collector G S Sameeran said. A total of 87 vulnerable locations have been identified in Tirunelveli district. Boats have been kept ready to rescue people in distress in those places and sand bags have been kept ready to plug breaches in banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-coastal-districts-brace-for-heavy-rain-from-cyclone-burevi-for-three-days/articleshow/79519292.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||Leopard enters Doon airport, rescued after 10 hrs||Dehradun: A sub-adult leopard barged into a drainage pipe barely 100 metres away from the airstrip at Dehradun airport on Tuesday. The incident was reported around 10.30 am and the leopard could be rescued after 10 hours by a team of over a dozen forest department officials. The atmosphere was a bit tense as additional security staff and airport authority members were present on the spot throughout the day to ensure that the leopard doesn't run towards the runway or harm any passenger or staff. The leopard had entered a 40-foot-long pipe of electric cables, following which a JCB machine and other heavy machinery were called to dig the place and rescue the wild cat. The leopard was taken to the Badkot area after the rescue. “We safely rescued the leopard without tranquilizing it. Because it is a very small leopard of barely a few years, a decision on radio-collaring would be taken by experts after examining its health,” said Rajiv Dheeman, DFO, Dehradun forest division. Notably, the forest department is all set to give away its 87 hectares of land for the expansion of Dehradun airport claiming that forest doesn’t house much wildlife. Activists have vehemently opposed the state wildlife board’s move to denotify the Shivalik elephant reserve and proposed felling of over 10,000 trees for the airport’s expansion. The area has seen rescue operations of several animals, including jackals, throughout the year due to presence of large swathes of Shivalik elephant reserve around it. It is one of most biodiversity-rich hotspots for animals, including elephants, leopards, deer, jackals and an array of migratory birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leopard-enters-doon-airport-rescued-after-10-hrs/articleshow/79531735.cms||Shivani Azad
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Put off CM review meet to facilitate Sivaganga panchayat chief poll: DMK||Madurai: The DMK has written to the State Election Commissioner seeking appropriate orders to the government to postpone the chief minister’s proposed visit to Sivaganga saying it would result in postponement of election of the chairman of Sivaganga district panchayat for the fourth time.In his complaint, party organising secretary R S Bharathi said indirect election to the post of district panchayat council chairman could not be conducted so far though the district panchayat ward members were elected as early as in January. It was postponed thrice for want of quorum though it was known that the DMK candidate would win. He blamed the ruling party for this claiming they do not have majority to win the election. He said election to the posts of chairman and vice-chairman is necessary for the panchayat council to discharge its functions and duties under the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994. The State Election Commission had given an undertaking in Madras high court on November 11 to conduct the election within two weeks. Subsequently, a notification was issued on November 24 by the commission to conduct the election on December 4. The Sivaganga district panchayat council has 16 wards, of which AIADMK secured eight, DMK five, Congress two and IJK one.Bharathi said the election notification had been issued for holding the election to the district chairman’s post at 10 am on December 4 and that of the vice- chairman at 3 pm. However, the chief minister’s visit to Sivaganga has been announced on the same day and a review meeting purposely planned at the instance of the AIADMK to commit all possible electoral malpractices. He alleged that under the guise of attending the meeting to be chaired by the CM, AIADMK functionaries would assemble at the district collectorate, where the election is scheduled, and adopt illegal methods to prevent a free and fair election. On earlier occasions too, illegal attempts like abduction of electors/ward members were resorted to by the ruling party. Hence, the review meeting should be postponed to some other day after the election is over, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/put-off-cm-review-meet-to-facilitate-sivaganga-panchayat-chief-poll-dmk/articleshow/79519343.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kochi||No bias in compensation, says HC||Kochi: The Kerala high court has disagreed with an activist-politician’s allegation that discrimination was shown to victims of Pettimudy landslide when compared to victims of Kozhikode Air India Express crash. A division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and Shaji P Chaly said the allegation raised in the petition filed by Gomathi Augustine, leader of Pembilai Orumai and Devikulam block panchayat member, regarding discrimination by the state government cannot be countenanced.  In addition to the benefits provided, the legal representatives of the deceased or injured, or those who lost their properties, can seek compensation before a civil court, the court said. For the incidents that occurred on August 6, the government had announced a solatium of Rs 5 lakh for victims of Pettimudy landslide whereas the solatium for the airplane crash was Rs 10 lakh. Both the announcements were made on the same day. During the hearing of the case, the court was informed by the state government that in addition to the ex-gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh, it proposes to give land and house to the legal heirs of the deceased. Kannan Devan Hills Plantations Pvt Ltd (KDHP) is willing to help the beneficiaries for constructing the houses. Order was issued to provide land and KDHP agreed to construct houses, the court was told. Moreover, central government has announced financial assistance of Rs 2 lakh each, Tamil Nadu government declared assistance of Rs 3 lakh each to the families, and KDHP also announced aid of Rs 5 lakh each, state government had submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-bias-in-compensation-says-hc/articleshow/79517870.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s GST collection 14% down in November||CHADNIGARH: While the neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh continued to witness a positive growth in Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection, the figures for Chandigarh dipped in November as well. The UT GST collection stood at Rs 141 crore in November, according to the figures released by the Union ministry of finance. The revenue for November is 14% down compared with corresponding period last year, when it was Rs 165 crore. Recently, the UT administration had even blocked e-way bill generation of 1,026 firms for not filing GST returns for two consecutive months: December 2019 and January 2020. In a recent review meeting related to GST collection, the excise and taxation department officials had attributed the continuing dip to coronavirus. They had maintained that people of neighbouring states used to come to Chandigarh for shopping. The tourist footfall had also come down, which directly affected revenue collection. People these days preferred to purchase items from their nearby markets and were not coming to Chandigarh, they had submitted. In the data released by the ministry, Chandigarh’s GST collection in the first five months (April to August) of 2020-21 fiscal had also dipped by 29.5%. The finance ministry had informed the Parliament that the GST collection dipped up to 44% in various states/union territories during April-August period. GST collection of Chandigarh had come down to Rs 578 crore during April-August period as against Rs 821 crore during corresponding period of last fiscal, which was down by 29.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/uts-gst-collection-14-down-in-nov/articleshow/79517854.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||13-year-old arrested for raping five-year-old girl||Roorkee: A 13-year-old boy was arrested from Bahaderpur-Jat village under Pathri police jurisdiction for allegedly raping a 5-year-old girl, who is also his neighbour. A case has been registered under sections 376 (rape), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and relevant sections of the POCSO Act. According to Pathri police station in-charge Sukhpal Singh Man, the accused, a student of class 8, allegedly lured the girl away with sweets to his house. “On the complaint of the girl’s family, we have arrested the accused, conducted a medical examination of both the survivor and the accused. The boy has been produced before a court. The girl is under treatment at a higher centre and is in a stable condition,” said Man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/13-year-old-arrested-for-raping-five-year-old-girl/articleshow/79516773.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 2, 2020||India||NRIs may soon get to vote remotely with e-ballots||NEW DELHI: Non-resident Indians (NRIs), who under the current election laws must cast their vote in person at their respective constituencies in India, may soon get to vote remotely in an Indian election, from their country of residence. Election Commission, in a proposal sent to the law ministry last week, has suggested that NRIs be allowed to vote through electronically-transmitted postal ballot system (ETPBS), a facility already extended to service voters that include members of the Armed forces and para-military forces and government employees serving abroad. EC, in the November 27 letter addressed to the law secretary, proposed that necessary amendments be made in the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, “at the earliest” to enable the Indian diaspora to vote through postal ballot, adding that it is “technically and administratively ready to extend this facility in general elections to legislative assemblies of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry”. Elections in the five states are due in May next year. There are around 1.17 lakh NRIs registered as voters in the electoral rolls. EC in its letter stated that it has been receiving several representations from the Indian diaspora to facilitate voting through postal ballot since such overseas electors are not in a position to be present in their polling area as travelling to India for this purpose is a costly affair and otherwise too, they cannot leave their country of residence owing to compulsions like employment, education or other engagements. The protocols associated with Covid-19, have further compounded the problem, it added. As per EC proposal, an NRI may be issued a postal ballot electronically after he intimates his wish to vote through Form 12 to the returning officer, which must be received at least five days after notification of election. The duly filled up postal ballot – attested by an officer to be appointed by the diplomatic or consular representative of India in the country where the overseas elector is resident -- must be returned by post to the returning officer of the NRI’s constituency in India such that it is received latest by 8 am on the counting day. “We estimate around a two-week window for the NRI to return the postal ballot,” an EC officer told TOI adding that the system is already being followed for voting by staff of the missions/consulates abroad. “Only, after NRIs are allowed this facility, the volumes of such postal ballots being returned will be much larger,” said the officer. Times ViewIt is welcome news that technology is being used to help NRIs cast their vote from their country of residence. But the EC must also take note that millions of resident Indians are unable to vote simply because they are away from where they are registered to vote on polling day. This anomaly should also be urgently addressed. In today’s era, technology makes it feasible.EC had in 2015 proposed amendment in Section 60 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 to allow facility of postal ballot and proxy voting to overseas electors. Subsequently, ETPBS was allowed for service voters through an amendment to Rule 23 of Conduct of Election Rules. EC now feels that this facility can now also be extended to overseas electors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nris-may-soon-get-to-vote-remotely-with-e-ballots/articleshow/79521087.cms||Bharti Jain
December 2, 2020||Business||Gadget insurance sees high traction||Chennai: With an increase in purchase of expensive gadgets, insurers are seeing a higher traction with a 20% rise in ticket size of policies sold. Kunal Mahipal, CEO, Onsitego, which offers extended warranty, damage protection, said “We have seen a 20% rise in the ticket size of insurance products since June, 2020. The average ticket size of insurance premium collection stands between Rs 1,500 – 2,500. In device protection services, top categories include smartphones, TVs and laptops. Annual Maintenance Contract (AMC) for air conditioners and water purifiers have seen good traction this year as part of our B2C strategy.” Gadget insurance is a protection plan where you get protection against accidental damages, water or fluid damage, theft, burglary and fire damage. Gadgets insurance like cell phones, laptops, digital cameras, computers etc. In case, gadget gets stolen, damaged, etc. insurance companies would compensate for the loss, which differs from policy to policy. In cases of total loss or theft, the residual value after deducting depreciation will be paid to the customer. “On the biggest festive day - Dhanteras – we recorded a 140% growth and acquired 13,000 customers. We have seen a 55% volume growth in Tier 2 & Tier 3, driven by the expansion achieved by our retail partners,” Mahipal said. Most of our volume comes from metros and Tier I cities, but we have also seen a lot of traction from Tier II and Tier III cities in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Tamil Nadu,” he added. Onstiego said it has witnessed improved sales and shoppers from Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities, at the back of growing higher penetration by e-Commerce companies. Acko General Insurance, which offers a mobile phone insurance cover and an extended warranty cover for selected gadgets, said it has seen a 20-25% increase in ticket size of premium collection, driven by a 50% increase in the sales in premium mobile phones this year. Its senior VP, Anupam Dey said “We charge about 4-5% of the mobile phone price as the insurance premium. The average ticket size has gone up, as we saw the majority of customers upgraded their mobile phones, laptops, etc as they indulged in work from home. Have seen a 30% increase in sales of gadget insurance covers between January-October, 2020, as compared to the same period last year.” Acko General Insurance company sells over a million gadget insurance covers annually. “We have seen a 30% growth in the premium segment (above Rs 25,000) this year. This could be attributed to more people upgrading to their first smartphones or upgrading to a better model to meet the demands of increased online usage and needs,” Dey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gadget-insurance-sees-high-traction/articleshow/79512156.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 2, 2020||Chandigarh||HC halts admission to BA-LLB five-year course at Panjab University||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed the counselling for admission to BA-LLB (five-year integrated course) at Panjab University (PU). The counselling was scheduled for Wednesday. While issuing a notice to PU, seeking reply by Thursday, the HC ordered, “In the meanwhile, the conduct of the counselling based on the revised merit list fixed for December 2 shall be kept in abeyance.” A division bench, comprising Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Prakash, passed these orders after hearing a petition filed by Malayika Verma, a candidate for the course for the academic session 2020-21. The issue is regarding admission to 90 seats in the general category out of the total 180 seats. The admissions are being made on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination—Class XII. The grievance was that the revised merit list for the counselling to be held on December 2 was uploaded after withdrawing the award of four marks assigned for having passed the paper of ‘Legal Studies’ in the Class XII examination, thereby reducing the rank of the petitioner from 86 to 690, which is beyond the assigned 90 seats in the general category. The counsel for the petitioner informed the court that a case titled as Samriti versus Panjab University and others was filed, challenging the weightage of four marks for ‘Legal Studies’ for admission to BA-LLB (honours five years’ integrated course) on the ground that it was not mentioned in the prospectus.  “It is perhaps in the wake of the said writ petition filed that PU has withdrawn the award of four marks in the present case. However, for admission to BCom-LLB course, special weightage has been given to those who studied some special subjects during commerce course in the qualifying examination,” the counsel told the court. It was contended that the university cannot pick and choose while extending the benefit of weightage of marks for subjects more so for ‘Legal Studies’ for the two courses. “Thus, the action is discriminatory and arbitrary,” the petitioner told the HC. The case will now come up for hearing on December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-halts-admission-to-ba-llb-5-yr-course-at-pu/articleshow/79517857.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Varanasi||BLW maufactures 40 locomotives in a mth||Varanasi: Breaking its own record, the Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW) manufactured 40 locomotives in a month. The CEO of Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav, virtually flagged off the 40th locomotive manufactured in November on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, Yadav said that with the launch of the 40th 6,000-HP-electric locomotive in November, BLW has surpassed its own record of manufacturing 31 electric locomotives in a month, which it had set in July this year. This is a result of meticulous planning on shop floors for better space management and seamless material availability. He said that in four years, this production unit has completely re-purposed its infrastructure to switch over from diesel locomotives to electric locomotives. The staff and officers have risen to the challenge of re-skilling and reorganizing the shop floors, machines, jigs and fixtures and planning process for transition to electric locos. The culmination of this process is marked by the historic feat of turning out the highest electric locomotive count of 40 in a month, from a single assembly line, which is also equipped to assemble diesel locomotives for exports and non-railway customers. The shift of the production line from diesel to electric locomotives at BLW is in line with the Ministry of Railways’ multi-pronged strategy of lowering the fuel bill, reducing carbon footprint, reducing dependence on import of fuel and enhancing average speed and hauling capacity of trains. Yadav further said that BLW would strive for 100% implementation of HRMS module, which is a step towards enhancement of staff welfare by providing various HR facilities like viewing of service record, leave account, PF withdrawal etc. on just the click of a button. He also mentioned that BLW has many quality certifications in hand which clearly indicates its efforts in the field of quality. “However, BLW should now strive for ‘Zero Defect’ and become such a brand name whose locos never fail en-route and only need scheduled maintenance. This standard can be achieved by learning from current failures, carrying out root cause analysis, taking suitable corrective actions for checking future repetition of the fault,” added the CEO. Rajesh Tiwari, a member of Traction and Rolling Stock, congratulated the BLW team for receiving many quality certifications like ISO:9001, ISO:50001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 1800 in a short period of time. BLW general manager Anjali Goyal said that this is their team’s humble contribution towards keeping the wheels of manufacturing running in the Indian economy, with the determination to overcome constraints imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic. “This is also BLW’s new ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ milestone. The electric locomotive production line has 98% indigenous materials input, supporting MSMEs and the domestic manufacturing sector in more ways than one,” she added. The annual procurement of BLW in 2020-21 is Rs 3,000 crore. A substantial share of material is procured from MSMEs. In 2019-20, purchases from MSMEs were around Rs 1,400 crore. The turnover of nearly Rs 4,000 crore per annum adds to the manufacturing GDP of the economy. BLW is now in a unique position of leveraging its multipurpose infrastructure to produce multi-gauge and multi-traction rolling stock. The production unit is also working on a prestigious export order of 3,000-HP-cape gauge diesel locomotives. The order has come from Mozambique, and has been put on fast track in November this year. Under this order, for the first time, a 12-cylinder-crankcase is being manufactured in BLW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/blw-maufactures-40-locomotives-in-a-mth/articleshow/79519404.cms||Binay Singh
December 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Air pollution could affect local weather too, says study||MUMBAI: The decline in pollution during the lockdown early this year did not just result in clearer skies in the city, it also led to changes in local weather conditions such as the wind speed and solar radiation, according to new research from IIT-Bombay. Track the pollution level in your cityThe findings highlight the importance of air pollution in the urban microcli-mate. Pollution may influence local meteorology more strongly than some natural seasonal changes, the study suggests. Understanding these dynamics can help improve local-level forecasting, scientists said. While several studies have looked at air quality during India’s Covid-19 lockdown, this is the first report on the effects on weather systems. During the study period, the season changed from winter to summer. But this shift did not change the meteorological system as much, researchers found. “Pollution caused more change in the local system than the temperature change from winter to summer,” said Subimal Ghosh, study co-author and professor of civil engineering. From January to April, researchers monitored a wide range of meteorological factors in Powai, including wind speed, temperature and humidity. They then compared this data with pollution numbers from the local MPCB station. Analysing the patterns before and after the March 26 lockdown, they found the sudden drop in pollutants caused by the halt in human activity was followed by a rise in solar radiation—heat energy from the sun—as well as wind speed. During the lockdown, levels of nitrogen oxide declined 91%, sulphur dioxide 79%, and PM 2.5 56% at the study site. Meanwhile, the mean daily maximum wind speed increased to 5.7 metres per second from 4.5. Incoming solar radiation increased and there was a two-fold rise in evapotranspiration, which plays a role in the water cycle. Evapotranspiration is the evaporation of water from the ground and plant transpiration. The increase in solar radiation is due to the fact that the layer of pollution over cities usually blocks solar energy or radiation from reaching the earth’s surface. Without the pollution, more sun can reach the ground, leading to changes in temperature and other parameters. However, it is less clear why wind speeds increased. “There is much we don’t understand yet about urban environmental and meteorological interactions,” said Ghosh. More research needs to be done, scientists said, noting this study was limited to a few months and one locale. The study is part of growing research on the role of anthropogenic factors on the urban climate. Previous studies have shown that the city’s heat islands—pockets of high temperature created by concrete and asphalt—can influence storms and rain. “We know the heat island effect is exacerbated by pollution, this study shows there are other links and feedbacks with local meteorology,” said Raghu Murtugudde, a climate scientist with the University of Maryland in the US, and a co-author. The study suggests pollution and other chemical feedbacks are strongest in summer, and understanding them can improve temperature and rain forecasts as well as ozone forecasts, he added. The study suggests pollution and other chemical feedbacks are strongest in summer, and understanding them can improve temperature and rain forecasts as well as ozone forecasts, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/air-pollution-could-affect-local-weather-too-study/articleshow/79520283.cms||Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Man gets double life for murdering wife, daughter in 2014||TUTICORIN: A mahila court in Tuticorin on Tuesday sentenced a 42-year-old man to double life imprisonment for murdering his wife and daughter. S Shankar of Nagercoil, who had relocated to Tuticorin with his family, and was engaged in textile business was married to Gokila and the couple had a child. Suspecting Gokila’s fidelity, Shankar often picked up quarrels with her and tortured her. On May 29, 2014 he murdered Gokila, 26, and daughter Bhuvana, 3. “On the day the incident took place, he locked the house from inside around 7.30am and smashed his wife’s head with a grinder stone. He then threw the girl against the wall. Gokila died on the spot, while Bhuvana was taken to a hospital, where she died the same day,” said public prosecutor (PP) V Subashini. The PP added that neighbours had helplessly watched the murders through the window. Shankar threatened to open a gas cylinder and set it on fire. He also threatened to attack them with the grinder stone. Shankar was booked for murder, arrested and later released on bail. A total of 24 witnesses appeared for the prosecution of whom two turned hostile. “On behalf of Shankar, his defence witnesses claimed that he was mentally ill. But during cross examination it could not be proved as it was found that he was taking tablets for pressure and that there was no certificate to prove that he was mentally ill,” Subashini said. On completion of the trial, mahila court judge V Pandiaraj found Shankar guilty of double murder and awarded double life imprisonment. A fine of Rs 2,000 was also slapped on him. Shankar will be lodged in the Palayamkottai Central Prison in Tirunelveli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-gets-double-life-for-murdering-wife-daughter-in-2014/articleshow/79519372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||CAU shortlists 56 players for domestic tournaments||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) has released a list of 56 probable players which will represent the state in various domestic cricket tournaments. These 56 probable players were selected based on their performance in the CAU-organised camp in Dehradun from November 24 to 29. The list of 56 players comprises those who are likely to represent in various tournaments like Ranji Trophy, Vijay Hazare tournament, and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy. A separate list of 36 players out of the selected 56 players has been released by the state cricket board. These 36 players are contenders to represent the state in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy and their practice session camp will start from December 2 at the Abhimanyu Cricket Academy in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cau-shortlists-56-players-for-domestic-tournaments/articleshow/79516786.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Voting percentage in flood-affected areas hit||Hyderabad: Just like many other parts of the city, the voting percentage of residents in flood-affected areas was low in western and eastern parts of the city. In Old City, the condition was much worse. In Miyapur, 25.47% votes were polled by 5pm and in Ramanthapur, 36.6% of votes were polled. Around 50% votes were polled in six divisions in Malkajgiri by evening. In Chandrayangutta, only 19% votes were polled by 4pm. When TOI spoke to residents of these areas, electors in these wards said that floods had a impact on the polling percentage. Some people in Chandrayangutta said they had lost offiicial documents during floods. “We did not receive voter slips and the documents were washed away too. After floods, some people even vacated houses,” said Mohammed Abdul Aleem from Hafeez Baba Nagar, which was inundated in water during floods. Another resident from Chandrayangutta said that the interest to come out and vote was lacking among people. “There is lack of interest to vote among people in our locality, especially after houses were inundated due to lack of infrastructure. Even my wife said that there is no point in voting as the results in this area have been the same since decades but I insisted she had to vote,” said Mohinuddin from Hafeez Baba Nagar. In Miyapur ward, houses in Deepti Sri Nagar and Sai Kushi Nagar were inundated. B Sampath from Sai Kushi Nagar said that if houses were not inundated, the polling would have dipped further. “More people in my locality voted in this election as their houses were inundated and they realised the importance of civic amenities,” he said. In Malkajgiri, locals attributed the increased polling percentage to resident welfare associations (RWA). Members of an association said that they had conducted several programmes ahead of polls. “We were able to cross 50% polling in more than six wards in Malkajgiri. We had held several webinars and sent text messages to people,” said BT Srinivas, general secretary of United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (UFERWAS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/voting-percentage-in-flood-affected-areas-hit/articleshow/79519433.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Madurai||“I will play a role in the 2021 assembly election”: Alagiri||Madurai: M K Alagiri, the estranged older brother of DMK president M K Stalin, on Tuesday said he would return to politics but only after consulting his supporters. “I will play a role in the ensuing election, but the decision would be made only after consulting with my supporters,” Alagiri told reporters in Madurai after visiting a loyalist to condole the death of his family member.Asked if he would float a party, the former Union minister, who has been in political hibernation for the past few years, reiterated, “All that would be decided only after I discuss with my supporters.” But he would not be a mute spectator for the assembly election like he was for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he said. Sources said the meeting with his loyalists may be scheduled for December 24.Alagiri was the DMK’s strongman down south after he proved his clout in the 2009 Thirumangalam byelection and many that followed. But, strained relations between him and his brother Stalin, led to his expulsion from the DMK ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. Now, with the assembly election around the corner, there is speculation about his political plans.He visited the family of Essar Gopi in Meenakshipuram in Madurai, his first public appearance since the lockdown, to condole the death of his supporter’s brother S Marudhu last week.As to whether the DMK was planning to give his son Dayanidhi Alagiri a prominent post in the party, he dismissed it as a rumour just like reports in a section of the media that he was planning to meet the Union home minister Amit Shah, when he visited Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/i-will-play-a-role-in-the-2021-assembly-election-alagiri/articleshow/79519397.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bareilly||Soon, Gomti aarti in Pilibhit on pattern of Varanasi, says DM||Pilibhit: The banks of Phulhar lake — from where the Gomti river originates — in Pilibhit’s Madhotanda village are set to witness evening aarti every day on the pattern of the Ganga aarti performed in Varanasi. District magistrate Pulkit Khare has initiated a beautification project of the site by engaging half a dozen government departments. The beautification work also includes the detection of artesian wells in the lake by remote sensing experts. The DM said deputy commissioner of Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) Mranal Singh was issued directions to make the Phulahr lake embankment sloppy, while the district horticulture department would saturate them with beautiful flower plants and decorative grasses. A letter was sent to the UP government’s remote sensing department to invite a team of experts to detect natural springs in the lake and to find out their precise coordinates. “The exercise is aimed at removing the blockage of artesian wells for discharging the groundwater and maintaining the natural flow of water in the river stream. At present, water is being supplied to the lake by a channel attached to Madhotanda minor canal,” said the DM. The DM further said the Phulhar lake banks would present the same scene of evening aarti as was being performed on the Ganga banks in Varanasi. A model cow shelter home was under-construction near the lake that would be transformed into a destination of religious devotion, he said. The lake's surrounding would be adorned with beautiful electric lights to create a picturesque scene in the night. All these features would make the Gomati origin a distinctive destination of tourist attraction and devotion, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/soon-gomti-aarti-in-pilibhit-on-pattern-of-varanasi-says-dm/articleshow/79516803.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 2, 2020||Madurai||Man, 29, held for marrying and raping minor girl in Madurai||MADURAI: One person was arrested and another booked in separate incidents for marrying minor girls in Madurai district. The Thirumangalam all women police arrested a 29-year-old man for marrying a 17-year-old girl. Sections under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act were also evoked as the accused had sex with the minor after marriage. The accused has been identified as A Sakthivel of Kasthuribai Colony in Perungudi. The girl’s mother and Sakthivel's father, Arumugam, have also been booked. Police sources said the ChildLine received an alert on the wedding, which took place on November 22. A team led by Muthulakshmi, extension officer of the social welfare department, Thiruparankundram union was pressed into action. The family claimed that the girl was not a minor. However, in a separate inquiry, the girl admitted that she was a few months short of 18 years. A case was registered based on the complaint from Muthulakshmi. In another incident, V Muthuprabu, 29, from Sambakulam near K Pudur in Madurai city was booked for marrying a 17-year-old girl. The girl’s 62-year-old gather and Muthuprabu’s father P Vellaisamy, 55, were also booked. Police said that the marriage took place on November 26. However, social welfare officials received an alert only four days after the marriage. Extension officer of social welfare department from Kottampatti block conducted an inquiry and found that the girl has not completed 18 years. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-29-held-for-marrying-and-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/79519406.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Dehradun||One killed, nine hurt as mini-truck runs over baraatis in Haldwani||Nainital: A 23-year-old man died as a speeding pick-up truck ran over a baraat (wedding procession) in the Haldwani area of Nainital district on Monday night. At least nine others, who were part of the procession, sustained injuries in the accident and some of them are said to be in critical condition. According to police, the accident took place near the Panchayat Ghar on the Rampur road while the group was dancing. The mini-truck overtook a vehicle ahead of it and having failed to notice the baraat (wedding procession) on the road, ploughed through the revelers. “It was around 8 pm when the baraatis were dancing near the Panchayat Ghar. A pick-up truck overtook a vehicle and went through the procession. The baraatis tried to dodge the truck but many of them could not and were hit by the speeding truck and sustained injuries. The accused driver fled the spot after the accident. However, we have talked to the eyewitnesses and are scanning the CCTV footage to track him,” said a police official. The deceased has been identified as Aryan, a resident of Meerut. All the injured are undergoing treatment in a hospital, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-killed-nine-hurt-as-mini-truck-runs-over-baraatis-in-haldwani/articleshow/79516804.cms||Prashant Jha
December 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Health workers take turns to cast vote||Hyderabad: While 300 healthcare workers were among the staff deputed for poll duty on Tuesday, several healthcare staff from government offices and state-run hospitals took turns to go for voting. Senior health officials, including director of public health, Telangana Dr G Srinivasa Rao, stepped out of office to cast their vote in the afternoon. “We have encouraged workers to go and cast their votes. Everyone was allowed to take one or two hours off for voting. A good percentage of the staff has made use of the time,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao. The patient flow at hospitals remained below average across major hospitals. This allowed doctors and other staff to take time out for voting. “We were filling in for each other and there were duties given in rotation so that the work is not disturbed,” said a junior doctor at Gandhi Hospital. Meanwhile, doctors and members of various healthcare worker unions were seen circulating messages on WhatsApp and other social media platforms urging healthcare staff to vote. Some offered to help with information regarding voter ID and polling booths as well. We have encouraged workers to cast their vote. Everyone was allowed to take one or two hours off. A good percentage of the staff has made use of the time||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-workers-take-turns-to-cast-vote/articleshow/79519439.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vadodara||Collection agency siphons off Rs 5 crore SoU revenues||Vadodara: A city-based cash collection and management agency has been booked for siphoning off the revenues collected at the world’s tallest statue - Statue of Unity (SoU). India’s biggest private lender, HDFC Bank, has registered a complaint of cheating and criminal conspiracy against Writer Business Services Pvt Ltd (WBSL), at Kevadia police station for siphoning off Rs 5.24 crore in 17 months beginning November 2018. WBSL has been working with HDFC since 2003 and is tasked with collecting cash from the customers and depositing it in their account at the bank. WBSL was given the responsibility of collecting cash from SoU and depositing it in their account at the bank. According to the complaint filed by HDFC bank’s branch manager, WBSL staffers have been collecting cash from SoU since November 2018 but didn’t deposit the entire amount in the bank. “The money that was collected by the agency included the cash payments made by the tourists for entry to the SoU as well as parking tickets,” said a SoU official. On November 8, HDFC received an email from an SoU official stating that there was a difference in the amount mentioned in cash deposit slips and that in the bank account. The bank then began internal investigation and learnt that employees of the cash collection agency were involved in cheating. They collected cash from the SoU but didn’t deposit the full amount in the bank. According to the complainant, the agency employees allegedly siphoned the cash between November 2018 and March 2020. The SoU was closed down for tourists after the lockdown was announced in March. It reopened a month-and-half ago and entry tickets are now being issued only on the basis of online payment. “We will try to find out who is involved in the cheating and how did the accused siphon off the cash. Further action will be taken once we investigate the case,” said Vani Dudhat, DySP, Kevadia division. An SoU official said that they won’t suffer any loss as the bank has promised to compensate them in case of any discrepancy. “The money will be deposited in SoU account within the next 24 hours,” a SoU spokesperson said. The 182-metre tall statue of India’s first home minister, Sardar Patel was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in October 2018. Since its inauguration, the SoU has become a tourist hub and has been generating revenues in crores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/collection-agency-siphons-off-rs-5-crore-sou-revenues/articleshow/79516609.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Surat||Hundreds attend event hosted by former BJP minister in Tapi||Surat: As the state government grapples to contain the second wave of Covid-19 and four main cities put under night curfew, thousands of people gathered at an engagement ceremony of former BJP minister Kanti Gamit’s granddaughter in his native village near Songadh town in Tapi district on Monday night.This also comes at a time when Gujarat government has capped number of guests at weddings and other ceremonies at 100.A video of the event where hundreds of people are seen swaying to DJ music went viral on social media on Tuesday. According to witnesses, there were over 5,000 people at the ceremony. Sources said that Gamit, former MLA from Nizar Assembly seat, was called for questioning at Songadh police station on Tuesday evening. However, no official complaint was filed for Covid-19 norms violation thill Tuesday evening.Gamit, who is also, director of Surat District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd (Sumul Dairy) on Tuesday apologised for the mass gathering. “Every year, we organise ‘tulsi vivah’ in our village. On Monday, along with ‘tulsi vivah’ with organised engagement ceremony for my granddaughter. We did not send out invitations but we had put up a message on Whatsapp and people turned up in large numbers,” Gamit told media persons at Songadh on Tuesday. The BJP leader said that he had organised dinner for around 2000 guests. “We did not expect that so many people would turn up. The dance programme was followed by dinner. I apologise for the mass gathering,” Gamit said.When asked if they the guests were provided face masks and sanitisers as per Covid-19 norms, the BJP leader said that they did not provide masks or sanitisers to guests.According to Tapi district health officials, four new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Monday. Out of the four new cases, two were reported from Songadh and two from Vyara taluka. Total of 22 patients are under treatment for coronavirus in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hundreds-attend-event-hosted-by-former-bjp-minister-in-tapi/articleshow/79517068.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand govt makes separate trade licence for tobacco a must||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government is mulling tighter curbs on the sale and consumption of cigarettes and other tobacco products in urban settlements in the coming weeks. The state department of health, medical education and family welfare has been directed to issue directives to all 34 urban local bodies to make it mandatory to have a separate trading licence for selling tobacco products. Tobacco sellers will not be able to sell other non-tobacco products. Likewise, grocery stores selling tobacco products will have to face legal action. At the state tobacco control program’s review meeting chaired by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Tuesday, a decision was taken to do away with smoking zones in hotels and restaurants to discourage citizens from smoking in public. At the meeting, which was attended virtually by deputy commissioners and officials of the departments of health, education, urban development and commercial taxes, it was also decided that provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act of 2003 will be amended to impose bans on hookah bars in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and other cities. Earlier, the state health department had banned the operation of hookah bars during the tenure of the previous government under chief minister Raghubar Das. Officials present in the meeting said the issue of availability of gutka and pan masala across the state despite a ban on their sale and consumption was discussed at length. On April 22, 11 brands of gutka and pan masala were banned after their samples tested to have harmful chemical contents. The ban was later extended till July 25, 2021. In September this year, the Jharkhand high court had pulled up the health department for failing to implement the ban on the sale of gutka and pan masala. “It was agreed that there will be checking of trucks bringing in these products at the inter-state borders. Stopping the products from entering Jharkhand is the only way to effectively implement the ban,” a senior official present at the meeting said. L R Pathak, the nodal officer for state tobacco control program, said: “It was stated that the ban on sale of tobacco products within a 100-metre radius of schools, colleges and education institutes be implemented by district administrations in letter and spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-govt-makes-separate-trade-licence-for-tobacco-a-must/articleshow/79526186.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||NHM corrects Pakur Covid data, says district has just 3 active cases||RANCHI: Hours after TOI highlighted error in data on Covid-19 patients in Pakur district, the state unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) corrected the numbers in its bulletin released on Monday night. As per the state government data, a total of 21 people were infected by virus in the whole of November while 14 recovered and 58 were active cases. However, the bulletin released by NHM on Monday night showed 56 recoveries, taking the number of active cases in district to three. When TOI spoke with health department officials in Pakur and NHM on Monday morning, they blamed it on the national health portal of Covid-19 and said the inflated numbers were because of migrated persons testing positive elsewhere in country. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni on Tuesday said he has spoken to the authorities in Pakur and the error in data was because of the reports being submitted directly to national portal. “I have been informed that the increase in active cases in Pakur is because of outsider patients and one more has been reported from Navi Mumbai on Monday. I have asked them to verify the data before submitting it to state NHM.” On being asked the number of patients currently admitted in Pakur said: “There are three patients currently being treated at our care centres in Pakur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nhm-corrects-pakur-covid-data-says-dist-has-just-3-active-cases/articleshow/79517885.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||5 deaths take Jharkhand Covid toll to 969||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded five Covid deaths, 181 new cases and 227 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,09,332. Of these, 1,06,398 recovered and 969 have died. With number of new cases consistently lower than new infections, the number of active cases fell to 1,965, the first time the figure has been below the 2,000-mark since July 14. Two deaths were reported from Bokaro while Dhanbad, East Singbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan recorded on each. Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.88%, lower than the national average of 1.5%. While Khunti, Latehar, Pakur and Sahibganj did not record any new infections, Ranchi reported 81 cases followed by East Singbhum (18) and Simdega (14). The remaining 17 districts reported new cases in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-deaths-take-jharkhand-covid-toll-to-969/articleshow/79518094.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt makes separate trade licence for tobacco a must||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government is mulling tighter curbs on the sale and consumption of cigarettes and other tobacco products in urban settlements in the coming weeks. The state department of health, medical education and family welfare has been directed to issue directives to all 34 urban local bodies to make it mandatory to have a separate trading licence for selling tobacco products. Tobacco sellers will not be able to sell other non-tobacco products. Likewise, grocery stores selling tobacco products will have to face legal action. At the state tobacco control program’s review meeting chaired by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh on Tuesday, a decision was taken to do away with smoking zones in hotels and restaurants to discourage citizens from smoking in public. At the meeting, which was attended virtually by deputy commissioners and officials of the departments of health, education, urban development and commercial taxes, it was also decided that provisions of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act of 2003 will be amended to impose bans on hookah bars in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro, Dhanbad and other cities. Earlier, the state health department had banned the operation of hookah bars during the tenure of the previous government under chief minister Raghubar Das. Officials present in the meeting said the issue of availability of gutka and pan masala across the state despite a ban on their sale and consumption was discussed at length. On April 22, 11 brands of gutka and pan masala were banned after their samples tested to have harmful chemical contents. The ban was later extended till July 25, 2021. In September this year, the Jharkhand high court had pulled up the health department for failing to implement the ban on the sale of gutka and pan masala. “It was agreed that there will be checking of trucks bringing in these products at the inter-state borders. Stopping the products from entering Jharkhand is the only way to effectively implement the ban,” a senior official present at the meeting said. L R Pathak, the nodal officer for state tobacco control program, said: “It was stated that the ban on sale of tobacco products within a 100-metre radius of schools, colleges and education institutes be implemented by district administrations in letter and spirit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-govt-makes-separate-trade-licence-for-tobacco-a-must/articleshow/79517950.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||Feel sorry to see farmers hitting streets: Jharkhand CM||RANCHI: Reacting to the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi against the new farm laws, chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said that the situation could turn scary in the coming days if the concerns of the protesters aren’t addressed properly. He said, “Through the new farm laws, the Union government has attacked the country’s annadatas (food growers), who are the main drivers of the economy. I feel very sorry that our annadatas have to hit the streets to fight for their rights. You can imagine the dangerous situation the country is passing through under the current regime.” Meanwhile, the meeting between the protesting farmers and the Centre on Tuesday reportedly remained inconclusive as both the sides failed to reach a common ground. The Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, though, dubbed the meeting as ‘good’, adding that another round of dialogue will take place on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-feel-sorry-to-see-farmers-hitting-streets/articleshow/79517903.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||Feel sorry to see farmers hitting streets: Jharkhand CM||RANCHI: Reacting to the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi against the new farm laws, chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said that the situation could turn scary in the coming days if the concerns of the protesters aren’t addressed properly. He said, “Through the new farm laws, the Union government has attacked the country’s annadatas (food growers), who are the main drivers of the economy. I feel very sorry that our annadatas have to hit the streets to fight for their rights. You can imagine the dangerous situation the country is passing through under the current regime.” Meanwhile, the meeting between the protesting farmers and the Centre on Tuesday reportedly remained inconclusive as both the sides failed to reach a common ground. The Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, though, dubbed the meeting as ‘good’, adding that another round of dialogue will take place on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-cm-feel-sorry-to-see-farmers-hitting-streets/articleshow/79526212.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||JMM begins early preps for bypoll in Madhupur||RANCHI: Learning a lesson from the tough contest it faced in the Dumka assembly bypolls last month, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has already begun planning for the upcoming byelection to the Madhupur assembly seat in Deoghar early next year. The seat fell vacant on October 3 when incumbent legislator Haji Hussain Ansari, also the state minister for minority affairs, died of a cardiac arrest at a Ranchi hospital hours after recovering from Covid. As per Constitutional mandate, Madhupur’s voters will have to elect their next representative to the assembly by March next. “Preparations have already begun after Haji Sahab’s chaalisa (a 40-day mourning period). We have huddled our Karyakartas in the district, block and booth levels and directed them to strengthen our booth committees and increase public contact,” Narsingh Murmu, Deoghar district president of JMM, told TOI. Ansari, a JMM stalwart, represented Madhupur four times since 1995. In 2014, he lost to BJP’s Raj Paliwar. Paliwar went on to become the labour minister in the cabinet of former CM Raghubar Das. In 2019, Ansari returned to Jharkhand Vidhan Sabha after beating Paliwar by a little over 23,000 votes. While the buzz within the BJP is that Paliwar, a two-time MLA from Madhupur, will be handed over thelection ticket again, JMM rank and file indicated that Haji’s son Hafizul Hassan is the frontrunner as candidate. JMM is drawing lessons from Dumka, where Basant, also a debutant in electoral politics, locked horns with BJP candidate and former social welfare minister Lois Marandi. Though Basant won, his victory margin was a little over 6,000 votes. Eleven months ago, Basant’s elder brother and incumbent CM Hemant Soren had defeated Marandi by 13,188 votes. “Madhupur is important for us. Not only it is our sitting seat, but we have Haji Sahab’s legacy to preserve. Preparations have begun already as we have a few months left for bye-polls. Senior leadership is likely to take stock of the ground scenario in Madhupur very soon,” Vinod Kumar Pandey, JMM’s central committee member cum spokesperson, told TOI on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-begins-early-preps-for-bypoll-in-madhupur/articleshow/79518051.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||5 deaths take Jharkhand Covid toll to 969||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded five Covid deaths, 181 new cases and 227 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,09,332. Of these, 1,06,398 recovered and 969 have died. With number of new cases consistently lower than new infections, the number of active cases fell to 1,965, the first time the figure has been below the 2,000-mark since July 14. Two deaths were reported from Bokaro while Dhanbad, East Singbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan recorded on each. Jharkhand’s mortality rate was 0.88%, lower than the national average of 1.5%. While Khunti, Latehar, Pakur and Sahibganj did not record any new infections, Ranchi reported 81 cases followed by East Singbhum (18) and Simdega (14). The remaining 17 districts reported new cases in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/5-deaths-take-jharkhand-covid-toll-to-969/articleshow/79525873.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||1st lung transplant on Covid positive man in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 31-year-old man, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 in March, has become the first person to undergo lung transplant in the city. Doctors at Max Super Specialty Hospital, Saket, who performed the life-saving procedure, said the patient, a resident of Hardoi in UP, was still on ventilator but was awake and stable. "We plan to extubate him on Wednesday," said Dr Rahul Chandola, associate director, adult CTVS, heart and lung transplant specialist at Max. The Uttar Pradesh resident was diagnosed with silicosis, a long-term lung disease caused by inhaling large amounts of crystalline silica dust, about a year ago. This had already compromised his lung function. "When the patient contracted Covid-19, deterioration of lung function accelerated. He had to be put on oxygen support almost immediately and remained so for nearly four months. Without a lung transplant, he may not have survived for long," said Chandola. It took nearly 10 hours, from 10.30pm on Saturday to 8.30am on Sunday, to conduct the transplant. The procedure involved making an incision in the chest, cutting off the airways and blood vessels to the lung, removing the diseased organ, replacing it with the healthy donor lung and reattaching the airways and blood vessels before closing the incision. The donor lungs were from a 49-year-old woman from Jaipur who had suffered fatal head injuries in a road accident recently. She was declared brain dead by the treating doctors at a private hospital. The family overcame their grief and came forward to donate the organs following counselling, the hospital in Jaipur said. "The harvested lungs were brought to Delhi by an Air India flight," officials at Max Hospital said. "Covid-19 is leading to irreversible lung damage in many patients with no prior history of lung disease. We feel this may increase the demand for lung transplant in the coming days," said a senior doctor. Lung transplant, like a heart transplant, can only be carried out with an organ donated by a deceased person. Till date, only about 4,000 such transplants have been done globally, including about 200 in India. All lung transplants in India, except for one, have been performed at private hospitals where the procedure can cost Rs 20-30 lakh or more. Follow-up medications, which have to be taken lifelong, cost several lakhs a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sees-first-lung-transplant-a-covid-patient/articleshow/79521096.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 2, 2020||India||Wockhardt in talks with global firms to make vaccines in India||NEW DELHI: Wockhardt is in talks with global vaccine developers for manufacturing Covid-19 vaccines for India and other emerging markets. The company can utilise the capability of both fill-and-finish doses, and vaccine manufacturing at its facility in Aurangabad, Maharashtra. The facility has one billion doses annual capacity for both fill-finish and vaccine manufacturing, Habil Khorakiwala, Wockhardt chairman, said on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wockhardt-in-talks-with-global-firms-to-make-vaccines-in-india/articleshow/79521093.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Delhi||Night curfew unlikely in Delhi as Covid cases dip||NEW DELHI: Delhi government is unlikely to impose night curfew in the city due to the sharp decline in Covid-19 cases and positivity rate over the past fortnight. The city was reporting 7,000-8,000 cases daily, which has now come down to 4,000-5,000. The positivity rate has witnessed a sharp decline from 15.2% on November 8 to 6.8% on December 1. Last month, the authorities had to resort to multiple interventions to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. Experts had predicted that the daily cases could touch 15,000 owing to winter, pollution and other factors. The Union ministry of home affairs had allowed states and Union Territories to take decisions about imposing local restrictions, like night curfew, to check the spread of the novel coronavirus. However, it was clarified that the states and UTs would have to consult the central government before imposing any lockdown outside containment zones. This sparked speculation that Delhi government was going to impose night curfew. In the initial months of the lockdown, the city had witnessed night curfew for a long time. The AAP government had been asked by Delhi High Court to take a call without delay whether night curfew would be imposed in the entire capital or just some parts of it in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases. The matter is listed for hearing on December 3 when the government would be submitting a status report and its official stand regarding night curfew. A government source said that imposition of night curfew was unlikely now because the Covid situation had witnessed a major improvement over the last fortnight. The authorities believe that due to fewer policemen and enforcement officials being present at night, the chances of Covid guidelines being broken become higher. This creates the need for night curfew. Traders of the capital were opposed to night curfew in the initial months of the lockdown because it caused them to lose customers and income and, ultimately, loss of revenue to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/night-curfew-unlikely-in-delhi-as-covid-cases-dip/articleshow/79521101.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||2 tourists on way to Tadoba killed as SUV falls into nullah||Chandrapur: Two people, including a 13-year-old girl, were killed, while four others critically injured as an SUV heading to Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) fell into a nullah near Tukum Phata on Chimur-Kolara road on Tuesday.The deceased have been identified as Shreya Agrawal (14), who died on the spot, and her uncle Aminesh Agrawal (39), who succumbed to the injuries while being rushed to Nagpur for treatment. Other four critically injured reportedly belong to an industrialist family from Nagpur.Aminesh was son of former NMC standing panel chief Ashok Goyal and Shreya was granddaughter.Sources informed that six members of Agrawal family were travelling to Tadoba via Chimur and heading to Kolara gate of the TATR. At around 12 noon, a woman member of the family driving the SUV ( Ford Endeavour) lost control over the steering and the vehicle fell into a nullah near Tukum Phata. Shreya died on the spot, while five others were critically injured.Four of them were admitted to Chimur rural hospital, while Aminesh Agrawal was rushed to a private hospital in Chimur.Chimur rural hospital medical officer, Dr GV Bhagat, confirmed death of the 14-year-old girl and said all four injured were referred to Nagpur. Aminesh Agrawal too was rushed to Nagpur, but died midway, said sources. Chimur police have registered a case in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-tourists-on-way-to-tadoba-killed-as-suv-falls-into-nullah/articleshow/79518154.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Firm replacing and adding new bus stops at tardy pace||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s contractor Signpost India Pvt Ltd has reportedly replaced only 27% of existing city bus stops and erected 19% new city bus stops despite the deadline being over three years ago. The civic body has taken no action against the contractor citing various hurdles in the works.TOI on Tuesday had reported how the contractor dismantled a bus stop near Durga Mata Mandir on Pratap Nagar square- Mate Square road allegedly to favour a builder. Also, the contractor had no permission from NMC for removal of the bus stop. Remaining two bus stops on the same road were left untouched.NMC appointed Signpost India on April 5, 2010 for erection of 200 city bus stops in six months. The company was supposed to recover the investment and earn from advertisement on these bus stops for 10 years. Only 158 were erected in 2-3 years of the contract.There was a controversy at that time as company erected a majority of bus stops in locations that were suitable for advertisement and not for city buses and passengers.As per information from NMC, the company got another contract in 2016 to replace the 158 existing city bus stops with new smart ones. It got another contract for erection of bus stops on internal lanes. It obtained fourth contract in 2016 to erect 197 new bus stops.An official from NMC Traffic Department told TOI, “The company has replaced 42 of the 158 city bus stops as of date. They have set up 38 of 197 new bus stops.” The works were supposed to be completed in 2017.The inordinate delay also raise suspicions about removing the bus stop near Durga Mata Mandir. The contractor did not use materials of this bus stop on internal lane.The official said several hurdles came up delaying the work. “We are facing severe problems finalizing the locations for bus stops on internal lanes and also for new ones on main roads. People oppose bus stops as there is no space in the city for bus bays. Location should also be suitable for stoppage of city buses,” he said.NMC sources said, “Contractor should also get good location for getting advertisement. NMC is not spending a single rupee on these works. Entire cost is borne by contractor who has to recover the expenditure and get a return. The company is also supposed to pay royalty to NMC every year. This is one of the reasons behind delay in works.”There was no one available from Signpost for comment. NMC official said all efforts will be made to complete works as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/firm-replacing-and-adding-new-bus-stops-at-tardy-pace/articleshow/79518215.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Dhotre calls for independent wildlife mgmt policy for state||Nagpur: Even as the wildlife is governed by Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, State Wildlife Board (SWBL) member Bandu Dhotre has demanded to formulate an independent wildlife policy at the state-level to address flared up human-wildlife conflict by taking up landscape and wildlife-wise planning.“Extensive planning and policy will be required to establish coexistence in forested villages. Due to lack of food and reliance on forests by dwellers, planning is required for proper management of wildlife,” said Dhotre, who is also president of Eco-Pro, in a memorandum to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “As the country develops in various sectors, there is pressure on wildlife habitats. Population explosion has led to encroachments on wildlife areas and challenges in terms of conservation are increasing. Lack of comprehensive planning is causing many problems,” he said.Even after the enactment of Wildlife Protection Act, its effective implementation had to wait for decades. In the eighties and nineties, work of wildlife management, protection, and conservation was of secondary importance in the country. Even the officials working in the wildlife department were not given special importance, but today wildlife has gained significance.Dhotre plans to raise the issue at the 16th SWBL meeting slated for December 4.Maharashtra is rich in forest, wildlife and natural resources. However, protected areas (PAs) declared in the state are only 3% of the total geographical area, yet the target of bringing 5% more under conservation has not been achieved.Dhotre called for comprehensive planning for proper rehabilitation of villages in PAs and provide some concessions to the resettled families. The wildlife department needs to change overtime by modernizing it and additional staff and officers be provided with necessary wildlife training, habitat management to meet future challenges.“In certain areas, as the growth of specific wildlife exceeds the capacity, there is a need to implement projects for translocation of wildlife and at the same time increase prey base in forest areas which are devoid of animals. Different landscapes in the state have different problems, hence separate landscape-level wildlife management plans are needed,” said Dhotre.He pointed out there is a dire need to constitute purely local-level rapid response units of youth to respond quickly to growing human-wildlife conflict in many districts. There is also need to create zoos and tiger-leopard safaris in the state to spread awareness about wildlife and its habitat conservation.There is also need to create public awareness at the local level to stop poaching and to take strategic steps towards conservation and breeding of endangered wildlife species in the various landscapes, said Dhotre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dhotre-calls-for-independent-wildlife-mgmt-policy-for-state/articleshow/79518259.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||FRA activist asks tourists not to visit Melghat||Nagpur: Melghat MLA Rajkumar Patel has complained to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray against a forest rights NGO Khoj for their social media campaign appealing to people not to visit Melghat as tourists. Purnima Upadhyay, founder of Khoj which works in Melghat, kicked up a row by alleging that tribals are being implicated in false cases in a bid to evict them from the tiger reserve in violation of laws. “I urge my friends to not travel to the Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) as tourists in order to send a message to the park managers that such violations against the poor cannot usher into eco-tourism,” she said in an appeal. However, MLA Patel termed the NGO’s campaign as anti-tribal. Patel told TOI, “Hunderds of tourists visit Melghat for its natural beauty and wilderness and many tribal families are directly and indirectly dependent on tourism for their livelihood. Such an appeal is against the locals. I’m in Mumbai and will talk to the chief minister on the issue. I’ve also demanded an inquiry against the NGO’s work.” Patel has also forwarded his complaint to the forest, tribal development, tourism, and other ministers concerned. In the last five years, starting 2014-15, over 3.68 lakh tourists visited Melghat, generating a revenue of Rs4.69 crore. Families of over 130 guides, 65 safari vehicle drivers and local tribals engaged in canteen operations, besides many self-help groups are benefitted from tourism. APCCF & MTR field director MS Reddy said, “The vendetta by the NGO is a fallout of our action in October against 15-20 locals from Adhav village in the core area of the park. All were linked and involved in the poaching of two tigers and a leopard. Our team seized tiger and leopard body parts from these accused. The matter is pending in the court of law. The NGO is portraying our action in bad light.” Reddy added, “As far as the relocation of villages is concerned, it is voluntary. We are not against tribals and are providing them livelihood opportunities. Last year, 918 tribal youth were provided skill development training in hospitality, driving, computers and many of them have got jobs. We have also given 93 transport vehicles to youths of relocated villages who are earning well.” Upadhyay said, “I’m not against either conservation or relocation but the rule of law needs to be followed. Khoj has taken the lead in the relocation of Bori village. I’ve publicly expressed my views and the MLA is also free to take his stand.” However, MLA Patel said, “Khoj is defaming Melghat and subsequently the government administration. This may adversely affect the flow of foreign and Indian tourists. Already locals from Melghat are facing employment problems and such moves against tourism will deprive people of livelihood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fra-activist-asks-tourists-not-to-visit-melghat/articleshow/79518276.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 2, 2020||Noida||Farmers now block Chilla border, choke Delhi-Noida artery||NOIDA: The farmers’ agitation has choked more border points, on Tuesday adding Chilla – the capital’s boundary with Noida – where more than 200 protesters have pledged to camp till the Centre meets their demands of setting up a Kisan Ayog and formulating a law guaranteeing minimum support price for their produce. The farmers drove down in tractor-trolleys from various west UP districts in groups, down the Yamuna and Noida expressways, before congregating at the Chilla border around 4.15pm on Tuesday, choking the Delhi-Noida artery and throwing peak-hour traffic via Noida gate out of gear. With Delhi and Noida police diverting Noida-bound traffic towards DND loop – taking the wrong side, using the Noida-Delhi lane – the route is likely to remain heavily clogged during the course of the agitation. The Chilla agitation will have a much bigger impact on traffic than the other protest site on the Delhi-UP borders, at Gazipur (UP Gate), because the latter is on the service lanes of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, which is much wider and access-controlled. Farmers are also camping in large groups at Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders with Haryana. If farmers in another 1,200 tractors do join them, as the Chilla protesters have claimed, the impact on traffic will be much bigger from Wednesday. Led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu), the farmers gathered at the Delhi-Noida border have come from Etah, Hathras, Hapur, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahr and Noida. BKU (Bhanu) president Bhanu Pratap Singh told TOI the farmer only wants to be in the field but has been forced to take to the streets. “The farmer is a slave of politicians. We vote for them and they get everything through our vote. But when they come to office, they work in favour of capitalists. For years, we have been demanding a Kisan Ayog but to no avail. We want the PM to answer how the three farm laws will benefit us,” Singh said. The protesters also condemned the references to ‘Khalistani elements’, alluding to Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement about the state government having inputs about “some unwanted elements” raising pro-Khalistan slogans during the ongoing protests. “The farmers were mistreated, hit with tear gas shells. Are we terrorists? Can’t we go to our own capital? A rumour is being spread that we want to gherao Parliament. They think farmers are terrorists, links are being drawn to Khalistan but let us tell them we are not, that we are farmers producing wheat that even you have to eat,” said Jeet Kamal Solanki, national secretary of the outfit. The protesters said a Kisan Aayog with farmers as members should be constituted and given the job of fixing the selling price of farm produce. “Only farmers should have the right to fix the first and last MSP. Action should be taken against anyone buying at a price lower than MSP,” BKU (Bhanu) vice-president Dr Tarun Sharma said. Noida police officers held talks with the protesters to persuade them to vacate the border but were rebuffed. Traffic diversions were effected after that near the Sector 14A DCP office. In the evening, with traffic on the route choked, many commuters got off public transport and walked. One of them was Komal Kumari, who works with a private company in Noida’s Sector 1. She got off her office bus and walked towards Mayur Vihar to catch an auto for Akshardham. Seema, who was travelling to Noida from Delhi in a DTC bus, said she had started walking after the bus stopped near Chilla in hope of finding an auto to Sorkha. The protesters, meanwhile, have come prepared with food and clothes, like their counterparts at the other borders, ready for the long haul if needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/farmers-stir-adds-new-frontier-noida-gate/articleshow/79519849.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Amenities cost can reduce capital gains on flat sale, rules tax tribunal||MUMBAI: In a litigation over capital gains arising on a flat sale, Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT)’s Mumbai bench has held that the taxpayer can add the price paid for amenities to a builder’s group company to arrive at the total cost of acquisition of the property. The sale consideration minus the cost of acquisition (adjusted by applying the cost inflation index) determines capital gains. Higher the cost of acquisition, lower the taxable capital gains component. If the sale consideration is lower than the cost of acquisition, it results in a capital loss. On sale of a flat held for more than two years, the capital gains that arises is treated as long term and is subject to a tax at 20%. Thus, it is important for sellers to know what can be included as the cost of acquisition—typically it constitutes the purchase price, stamp duty, registration cost and broker fees. In the case of Rashmi Dhanani, which ITAT heard, the taxpayer had shown a long-term capital loss on sale of her flat. In the total cost of acquisition reflected in her tax computation, she had included Rs 9.4 lakh, which was paid to an affiliated company of the builder, under a separate amenities’ agreement. The amenities for which the additional charges were paid included special water proofing in the toilets and the kitchen and special wood for doors and windows. In this case, ITAT had remanded the matter to the I-T officer to ascertain whether other flat owners had entered into similar amenities agreements. ITAT observed 33 of the 128 flat owners had entered into a similar agreement. Further, the taxpayer’s financial statement consistently included this sum of Rs 9.4 lakh in the total property cost. Based on the above facts, ITAT decided in the taxpayer’s favour. Tax experts say determining what can be added to arrive at the total cost of acquisition is a fact-based exercise. Puneet Gupta, director, People Advisory Services, EY India, says, “A distinction should be made between capital costs that become an integral part of the house versus the cost of movable items such as furniture and fittings, which will be treated as personal effects. The taxpayer must be able to substantiate the expenditure with documentary evidence.” An I-T official said builders are increasingly offering various amenities to buyers, typically at an additional cost. These vary from special bathroom fittings, marble floorings, modular kitchens, and so on. Taxpayers need to obtain a proper breakup to avoid litigation at a later stage, when they sell this flat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/flat-amenities-can-cut-capital-gains-on-sale/articleshow/79521116.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Aurobindo Pharma group co bags Takli Jena coal block||Nagpur: The realty arm of Aurobindo Pharma Limited — the company working on the Covid vaccine — has bagged the second coal block made available to private companies for commercial mining in the stateThe Takli Jena Bellora (north-south) coal block in Chandrapur district has gone to Aurobindo Realty and Infrastructure, which is also based in Hyderabad. Its directors include Rohit Reddy, son of Aurobindo Pharma’s founder PV Ramprasad, and a kin Penaka Suneela Rani Reddy. The company offered 30.75% revenue share to the government, outbidding Nagpur’s Sunflag Iron and Steel.Like other companies profiled, TOI went through the documents filed by Aurobindo Realty with the ministry of company affairs (MCA). TOI’s attempt to get a comment from the company did not succeed. Three different officials, including the person who was said to be heading the mining business, was a contacted for a reply, but there was no response.The company was formed over four years ago. On August 10, 2020, Aurobindo Realty increased its authorized share capital from Rs160 crore to Rs185 crore. Later in the same month, it allotted over 2.24 crore equity shares to a foreign entity — M/s Aegele Cherry LLC. Against this, the company received an amount of Rs156 crore. The funds were proposed to meet the working capital requirements.The shares of Rs10 face value were issued at a premium of Rs60 each to the foreign entity. With this, the foreign entity’s stake in Aurobindo Realty comes to over 21% as per the documents.The company’s profit and loss account for the year 2018 and 2019, found in the MCA website, show that there has been a rather sharp increase in the revenue in the two years. The company’s income, which is recorded in millions, was at Rs253 million in the year 2018. In the next financial year, there was a jump of over 550% to Rs1,645 million.The company reported profits during both the years. However, the reason for the massive increase in turnover in a single year could not be known as the company’s officials could not be contacted for a comment.Unlike Marki Mangli block, no environmental concerns have been raised by activists for the Takli Jena Bellora block allotted to this company.However, the presence of tigers is not being ruled out in the area. Bandu Dhotre, district wildlife warden, said, “Due to an increase in the population of tigers in Chandrapur district, the animals have been found near closed Baranj coal block, which is close to Takli Jena Belora block.”“Although the area is not a designated forest, and there are other coal mines too, tigers have made the open spaces in the vicinity their habitat due to increasing population. The vegetation on the coal mines overburden (mounds of dug up earth) has also become the tigers’ home. The presence of tiger cannot be ruled out and can be more than the estimates, yet as it is a non-forest area, this has become a tricky issue,” Dhotre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aurobindo-pharma-group-co-bags-takli-jena-coal-block/articleshow/79518343.cms||Shishir Arya
December 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: With no foreign tourists, many beach shacks erected only to save licence||CALANGUTE: The shacks have been erected and the tables and chairs are in place, but there are no foreign tourists lounging around for hours together, as usual. This is the scene at many beach shacks in the tourism hub of Calangute-Candolim, especially the shacks catering exclusively to foreign visitors. With no charter or foreign tourists coming into Goa this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, stakeholders said that many shack owners in the affected areas have put up their shacks only out of fear that their licenses could be cancelled as per the beach shack policy. Others are hoping the government does not implement this rule as this charter tourism season has been a non-starter. There are around 200 beach shacks licensed by the tourism department on the Calangute-Candolim stretch. Shack Owners Welfare Society (SOWS) general secretary John Lobo said only the beach shacks at Umtawaddo, the main Calangute beach area, and at Baga are doing well since domestic tourists are arriving in large numbers. “Shacks in Cobravaddo, Tivaiwaddo, Gauravaddo and parts of Candolim are totally dependent on charter and foreign tourists. They are completely empty,” he said. “Owners of some shacks that are dependent on charter and foreign tourists have not even put up their shacks. Some have erected the structures, but have not started operating as there are no customers.” Normally, thousands of charter and foreign tourists stay in resorts close to the beach and patronise these shacks which are located within walking distance of their place of stay. And since most of these areas do not have proper access to the beach, or parking facilities, domestic tourists prefer avoiding them. Business is non-existent, says Manuel Cardozo, president of the Traditional Shack Owners Association, who operates a shack at Maddawaddo, Calangute. “There is not a single table today (Tuesday). Only shacks at Umtawaddo and Baga are getting business because of domestic tourists,” he said. Almost all shack owners have paid the license fee, Cardozo said. “We’ve been compelled to pay because otherwise we don’t know if we’ll get a shack license next year,” he said. However, out of the 10 shacks in Maddawaddo, three owners have not put up the shacks even after paying the fee because there is no business, he said. It’s a similar situation in Candolim. SOWS vice-president Seby D’Souza, who operates a shack here said the shack owners have been told by the tourism department to pay the fees by December 31 or their license will be cancelled. “They’ve all paid, but only few have put up their shacks, just for the sake of it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-foreign-tourists-many-beach-shacks-erected-only-to-save-licence/articleshow/79518366.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
December 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two more succumb to virus, mortality up to 691||PANAJI: With two Covid deaths reported on Monday, Goa’s mortality count rose to 691. The state reported 161 fresh infections. Eight travellers were among the new cases detected. There were 128 recoveries and the tally of active cases stood at 1,365. Of the two who succumbed to the virus, a 72-year-old man from Quepem was declared brought dead to the community health centre of Curchorem. A post mortem Covid test revealed that he had contracted the virus. Goa Medical College dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals in the state, Dr S M Bandekar, said that the deceased had symptoms of upper tract infection for three days and was treated at the out-patient department level. The other death was that of an 82-year-old woman from Pernem, who had respiratory failure at the time of admission, and died after 10 days of hospitalisation. With 2,048 tests conducted on Monday the positivity rate was pegged at 8% and recovery rate at 96%. Panaji reported two cases and its caseload was 82 while that of the Porvorim primary health centre dropped to 102. Candolim’s tally was 71. Case count of eleven centres in North Goa has fallen below 50 with Cansarvanem having the least number of cases. Caseload of the Margao and Ponda centres was 113 and 93, respectively. The tally of all other centres, except Vasco in South Goa, has dropped below 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-succumb-to-virus-mortality-up-to-691/articleshow/79518386.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Microbiology HoD at Goa Medical College gets extension||PANAJI: Dr Savio Rodrigues, professor and head of department of microbiology at Goa Medical College (GMC) has been granted an extension in service by a year on his superannuation. Rodrigues has been a facilitator in Covid-19 tests after an RT-PCR machine was installed at GMC in June. GMC was the first to have testing facilities for novel coronavirus in the state. A team of doctors from GMC, including Rodrigues, were trained at NIV, Pune to operate the new testing facility. The order granting him extension has been issued by the department of personnel on Monday which also states that his extension is subject to vigilance clearance, concurrence of finance department and approval of council of ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/microbiology-hod-at-gmc-gets-extension/articleshow/79518409.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||RBI extends curbs on Madgaum urban||Panaji: The financial sanctions imposed on Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank (TMUCB) have been extended by Reserve Bank of India for another three months till March 2, said RBI in a statement on Tuesday. The Margao-based cooperative bank came under the RBI’s lens after it failed to adhere to Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR) norms and struggled with loan recovery and defaults. On April 26, 2019, RBI announced sanctions on the bank for a period of six months beginning from May 2. “The directive dated April 26, 2019, issued to The Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd., Margao as modified from time to time, the validity of which was last extended up to December 2 shall continue to apply to the bank for a further period of three months from December 3 to March 2, 2021, as per the directive dated December 1 subject to review,” said chief general manager Yogesh Dayal. The financial restrictions imposed on the bank were last extended till December 3. Shareholders and depositors remain concerned about the safety of their deposits as they fear that the bank could be the second in the state to lose its banking licence.RBI cancelled the banking licence of Mapusa Urban Cooperative Bank of Goa (MUCB) in April and has already initiated liquidation proceedings. Madgaum Urban has nine branches and 85 staff and has initiated proceedings to recover dues from defaulters. The bank has about 54,000 depositors but most of the customers can no longer deposit or withdraw funds from their accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rbi-extends-curbs-on-madgaum-urban/articleshow/79518443.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Chorus grows to protect biodiversity||Nagpur: The public movement against the inter-model station coming up at Ajni is not just a fight to save thousands of historic trees but also to protect a thriving biodiversity habitat which is home to a variety of species of birds, insects and butterflies. TOI has been regularly reporting about the severe environmental damage that will occur if the proposed transport hub and an inter-model station come up at Ajni. Recently, different environment experts surveyed the area and found it to be a rich biodiversity hotspot. A team of entomologists visited the area and recorded over 22 different species of insects, particularly butterfly. “We spotted some butterfly pairs too, of tailed jay, angled castor and few others. The fact that they are found in pair is an indication that the habitat is quite healthy. We also spotted honeybees,” said entomologists Shubham Chhapekar and Mamta Bhadade. Not just insects, the lush green area is also home to over 25 bird species, reveals a survey done by ecologist Chetan Pandey and birder Ojaswara Pathak. From state bird yellow-footed green pigeon, bird of Nagpur oriental honey buzzard to white throated kingfisher, coppersmith barbet, purple sunbird and various others, the area has dynamic bird activity. “Chopping down the trees will lead to habitat degradation which will cause immense biodiversity loss,” said Pandey. Adding that bees and birds are significant ecological servants, he said, “They act as pollinators and help in seed dispersal and pest control. To ensure that we get their ecological services, we need to protect their habitat.” The trees that face axe from the project also hold immense ecological value. “Most of the trees are of native species. There is a wide variety — climbers, herbs, shrubs and small and big trees. The most important part is that the trees have great canopy which makes them ideal habitat for birds. Right in the middle of the city, it is refreshing to find so many birds that too in winter season,” said Prachi Mahurkar, partner at Punarnava ecological services and eco-design solutions. As the trees are age-old and large in number, the carbon sequestration is efficient. “If the trees are cut and the project comes up, the area will face high air and noise pollution. The quantity of particulate matter in the ambient air will also increase,” added Mahurkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chorus-grows-to-protect-biodiversity/articleshow/79518437.cms||Manka Behl
December 2, 2020||Nagpur||Denied sex, man murders wife, cooks up story before police||NAGPUR: Dinesh Pal, a labourer with a MIDC-based company, throttled his wife Sushma to death at their rented house at Tembhri in Butibori in the early hours of November 28. He tried to project the death as a heart attack. Police said the Pal couple, natives of Madhya Pradesh, had been staying in Nagpur district for the last three years. They have three children, the youngest three months old. The couple had repeated fights over sex on the same night. First, they had a tiff at 2am and later again at 5am when Dinesh throttled Sushma during a heated exchange. Later, Dinesh went to the Butibori MIDC police station to inform cops about his wife’s ‘sudden death’ while she was ‘asleep’. He told cops that his wife had suffered a cardiac arrest. However, the cops sensed foul play. “We sent the woman’s body to government medical college and hospital (GMCH) for the post-mortem,” said sub-inspector Dinkar Darade, who is the investigation officer. “The post-mortem report suggested that the death was homicidal and the reason stated was strangulation,” said Darade. The police allowed Dinesh to take his wife’s body to their native village for the last rites without informing him about the progress of the probe. “We later followed Dinesh to his village in MP and picked him up from there,” said Darade. Dinesh has been remanded in police custody till December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/denied-sex-man-murders-wife-cooks-up-story-before-police/articleshow/79518481.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 2, 2020||Goa||Astronomy film fest down to just 4 days||Panaji: The seventh annual astronomy film festival will be held from December 2 to 5 at the public astronomical observatory at Panaji. The festival is being organised by the association of the friends of astronomy (AFA) which opened on December 1 after an eight-month hiatus. Every year the screenings are held at AFA’s observatories across Goa but this time the festival, which has been reduced to a four-day event, will only see screenings at the Panaji observatory. “This time unfortunately the event is only held as a token so as to not have a gap. The entry will be restricted only to members,” AFA stated.  Four astronomy documentaries and space fiction movies will be screened with one screening per day. Only 25 people per screening will be permitted. AFA president, Satish Nayak said that a repeat festival will be held with screenings open to all space enthusiasts across Goa once the pandemic is resolved. In addition, every Saturday an online two-hour astronomy program with a talk, presentation and virtual sky observation will be held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/astronomy-film-fest-down-to-just-4-days/articleshow/79518489.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||Govt invites bids for setting up solar power systems in homes||Panaji: In the midst of stiff opposition against that Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd (GTTPL) project, and a debate on why solar power is not being generated in the state, the Goa Energy Development Agency (GEDA) has invited bidders to design, manufacture, supply, install, test and commission solar PV systems at various households in Goa. The last date of issuance of the tender document is December 11 and the tender will be opened on December 19. Earlier this year, in June, the state cabinet decided to implement the rural village electrification scheme for households to help 90 houses in Sanguem, Quepem, Sattari and Canacona get electricity through renewable energy. The scheme aims at bringing electricity, through renewable sources, to un-electrified remote villages, hamlets and wards where grid connectivity is either not feasible or not cost-effective. “Keeping in view the role of electricity in human and socio-economic development, this scheme is formulated to ensure last mile connectivity and electricity connections to all remaining un-electrified households in the state. This scheme is therefore formulated in order to fulfill the government’s target of 100 percent electrification in the state,” a senior officer said. Under the scheme, 100% financial assistance will be provided to households, with an upper limit of Rs 90,000 per household, for a 500 Wp solar system. This amount will include cost of transportation and installation as well as annual maintenance contract (AMC) for five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-invites-bids-for-setting-up-solar-power-systems-in-homes/articleshow/79518529.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Goa||‘Need full-time disability commissioner’||Panaji: The Disability Rights Association of Goa (DRAG) has written to minister of social welfare, Milind Naik, listing out issues faced by the disability sector that need to be attended to immediately. Topping their list of demands is the appointment of a full-time state disability commissioner with appropriate staff, a separate cell in various government departments for persons with disability, blood separators in district hospitals and a revision of schemes for welfare of the disabled. “Many disability issues are pending as we do not have a full-time state disability commissioner for the last two years. Applications for the post were invited in May 2020, but the appointment is not yet finalised,” DRAG president Avelino De Sa said. The letter also pointed out that it’s been 25 years since the Persons with Disability Act 1995 was passed, but public buildings are still not accessible for the disabled. “Goa was to make 30 public buildings accessible under the Accessible India Campaign by 2017, but nothing has been done till date, even though Rs 4 crore has been received from the Central government for the project. We cannot think of education, employment or entertainment of persons with disability if there is no accessibility to public buildings, communication and websites as mandated under the law,” the letter stated. Further, it said that there is a need for schemes for welfare of the disabled to be revised, to keep up with the cost of living.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-full-time-disability-commissioner/articleshow/79518571.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Covid-19 severity may be lower among HIV patients, say experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: Only a very few Covid-19 cases have been found among HIV positive people, according to Visakhapatnam district AIDS prevention and control unit (DAPCU). Further, the severity of Covid-19 seems to be lower among Hepatitis C patients. Although not established scientifically, medical experts say that Covid-19 mortality and severity have been found somewhat lower in HIV positive and Hepatitis C patients. The anti-retroviral therapy (ART) drugs that these patients take for HIV and hepatitis may have helped minimise the severity of Covid-19, say experts. KVR Sailaja, district programme manager of DAPCU, said, “There are over 16,000 patients on ART drugs registered with us. Interestingly, only four or five of them have been affected by Covid-19 even though they have been travelling to various villages and conducting NGO activities related to HIV awareness. It is possible that anti-retroviral drugs they are already on helped minimise impact of Covid-19.” Dr LRS Girinadh, associate professor at the department of gastroenterology at King George Hospital (KGH) pointed out that there may be undetected asymptomatic Covid-19 cases among HIV and Hepatitis patients. But since severity is usually low, mortality due to Covid-19 automatically reduces. “There have been a few studies, but none have established till now that HIV or Hepatitis patients are safer from Covid-19. Since HIV patients are immuno-compromised and Covid-19 has a hyper immunity syndrome, therefore the coronavirus cannot react so fast on immuno-deficient patients,” Dr Girinadh added. Padmashree general physician and HIV specialist Dr Kutikuppula Surya Rao said, “In some instances, the ART drug combo of Lopinavir and Ritonavir, used in HIV treatment, has shown positive results in Covid-19 patients if administered in early stages. However, more research is required to prove efficacy of ART drugs in controlling Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-severity-may-be-lower-among-hiv-patients-experts/articleshow/79517305.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 2, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray takes veiled dig at Yogi Adityanath's ‘Mission Bollywood’||MUMBAI/LUCKNOW: CM Uddhav Thackeray took a veiled dig at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, saying “no one can come to Maharashtra and take away industries from here”. The remarks came ahead of Yogi Adityanath’s scheduled meeting with representatives of Mumbai’s film industry on Wednesday. The UP CM flew down to Mumbai on Tuesday. To finalise the process for setting up UP’s Film City, a UP government spokesperson said, Adityanath will meet Rahul Mittra, Subhash Ghai, Boney Kapoor, Bhushan Kumar of T-Series, Jatin Sethi of Zee Studio, Anand Pandit, Baba Azmi, Neeraj Pathak, Randeep Hooda, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Jimmy Shergill, Taran Adarsh, Komal Nahta and Raj Kumar Santoshi. “He will discuss with them what facilities are required at the Film City and how could they contribute to the development,” the spokesperson said. Thackeray said, “Maharashtra is not afraid of competition, but no one can forcibly take businesses away from the state, that will not be allowed. We are not jealous about anyone’s progress, but it has to happen through fair competition.” He said the key words ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’ used by the state to draw investors were powerful. “Maharashtra’s culture and institutions are its strength. Some people are coming today, they will also meet you all and ask you to come to them. But the ‘magnetic’ strength of Maharashtra is so powerful that it will stop things from going from here,” Thackeray said. Yogi Adityanath had in September announced a proposal for setting up a Film City, for which a 1,000-acre plot in Sector 21 of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority has been chosen. The site is 6 km away from the proposed Jewar International Airport and an hour’s drive from Delhi. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/yogi-adityanath-in-mumbai-to-sell-ups-film-city-uddhav-thackeray-lashes-out/articleshow/79521639.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 2, 2020||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray takes veiled dig at Yogi Adityanath's ‘Mission Bollywood’||MUMBAI/LUCKNOW: CM Uddhav Thackeray took a veiled dig at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, saying “no one can come to Maharashtra and take away industries from here”. The remarks came ahead of Yogi Adityanath’s scheduled meeting with representatives of Mumbai’s film industry on Wednesday. The UP CM flew down to Mumbai on Tuesday. To finalise the process for setting up UP’s Film City, a UP government spokesperson said, Adityanath will meet Rahul Mittra, Subhash Ghai, Boney Kapoor, Bhushan Kumar of T-Series, Jatin Sethi of Zee Studio, Anand Pandit, Baba Azmi, Neeraj Pathak, Randeep Hooda, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Jimmy Shergill, Taran Adarsh, Komal Nahta and Raj Kumar Santoshi. “He will discuss with them what facilities are required at the Film City and how could they contribute to the development,” the spokesperson said. Thackeray said, “Maharashtra is not afraid of competition, but no one can forcibly take businesses away from the state, that will not be allowed. We are not jealous about anyone’s progress, but it has to happen through fair competition.” He said the key words ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’ used by the state to draw investors were powerful. “Maharashtra’s culture and institutions are its strength. Some people are coming today, they will also meet you all and ask you to come to them. But the ‘magnetic’ strength of Maharashtra is so powerful that it will stop things from going from here,” Thackeray said. Yogi Adityanath had in September announced a proposal for setting up a Film City, for which a 1,000-acre plot in Sector 21 of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority has been chosen. The site is 6 km away from the proposed Jewar International Airport and an hour’s drive from Delhi. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/yogi-adityanath-in-mumbai-to-sell-ups-film-city-uddhav-thackeray-lashes-out/articleshow/79521120.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 2, 2020||Thane||Uddhav Thackeray takes veiled dig at Yogi Adityanath's ‘Mission Bollywood’||MUMBAI/LUCKNOW: CM Uddhav Thackeray took a veiled dig at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday, saying “no one can come to Maharashtra and take away industries from here”. The remarks came ahead of Yogi Adityanath’s scheduled meeting with representatives of Mumbai’s film industry on Wednesday. The UP CM flew down to Mumbai on Tuesday. To finalise the process for setting up UP’s Film City, a UP government spokesperson said, Adityanath will meet Rahul Mittra, Subhash Ghai, Boney Kapoor, Bhushan Kumar of T-Series, Jatin Sethi of Zee Studio, Anand Pandit, Baba Azmi, Neeraj Pathak, Randeep Hooda, Tigmanshu Dhulia, Jimmy Shergill, Taran Adarsh, Komal Nahta and Raj Kumar Santoshi. “He will discuss with them what facilities are required at the Film City and how could they contribute to the development,” the spokesperson said. Thackeray said, “Maharashtra is not afraid of competition, but no one can forcibly take businesses away from the state, that will not be allowed. We are not jealous about anyone’s progress, but it has to happen through fair competition.” He said the key words ‘Magnetic Maharashtra’ used by the state to draw investors were powerful. “Maharashtra’s culture and institutions are its strength. Some people are coming today, they will also meet you all and ask you to come to them. But the ‘magnetic’ strength of Maharashtra is so powerful that it will stop things from going from here,” Thackeray said. Yogi Adityanath had in September announced a proposal for setting up a Film City, for which a 1,000-acre plot in Sector 21 of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority has been chosen. The site is 6 km away from the proposed Jewar International Airport and an hour’s drive from Delhi. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/yogi-adityanath-in-mumbai-to-sell-ups-film-city-uddhav-thackeray-lashes-out/articleshow/79521637.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 685 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 685 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,68,749. The toll increased to 6,996 as four more people succumbed to the pandemic. This is the lowest one-day casualty total in over five months after the state recorded five deaths on June 20. Of the four deaths registered on Tuesday, one each is from Anantapur, Chittoor, Guntur and West Godavari. On the whole, Chittoor alone accounted for 828 deaths, while Vizianagaram witnessed the lowest fatality numbers of 235 since the beginning of the outbreak in Andhra Pradesh. As many as 1,094 patients were declared cured. There are currently 7,427 active cases with the 8,54,326 cumulative recoveries and 6,996 deaths. Other than Krishna (146 cases), the remaining 10 districts recorded less than 100 cases. For the first time in months, two districts – Srikakulam (3 cases) and Vizianagaram (9 cases) – posted single digit infections to the table. The pandemic situation has improved in East Godavari, so much so that the district has now surpassed the state’s average recovery rate. Of the 1.22 lakh Covid-19 cases, the highest among all districts, more than 1.2 lakh patients have been discharged in East Godavari. There are less than 1,000 active cases in 10 districts. All the districts achieved at least 95% recovery rate. West Godavari, which has the second highest case burden, is also showing signs of improvement. Andhra Pradesh conducted 51,854 Covid-19 tests to detect the 685 new cases on Monday with a case positivity rate of about 1.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-685-covid-19-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/79517321.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Peak tourist season: Now, vacations in Visakhapatnam easier on pocket||Visakhapatnam: With the peak tourist season drawing near, travel agents in Visakhapatnam are now busy designing tour packages. In the wake of the pandemic, tour packages have undergone significant changes this year. The first thing on mind of travel agents is quality of hotels. Most travel agents are designing packages with star hotels to ensure that clients find accommodation where there is proper hygiene and Covid-19 norms are followed. “In the wake of the pandemic, we are not sure about how many tourists would actually like to stay at budget hotels. That too, at a time when star hotels are offering rooms at lower rates this year,” said K Vijay Mohan, president, Tours and Travels Association of Andhra. A two-night three-day tour package will cost around Rs 8,000 per person, on twin sharing basis. This includes accommodation at a four-star hotel, breakfast, transfers and sightseeing. “In 2019, the same package would have cost no less than Rs 10,000 per person,” added Vijay Mohan. Another important feature of Visakhapatnam tour packages this year is that travel agents are considering Araku Valley and Lambasingi for day-trips. Most packages do not include night-stays in these places. This, according to Vijay Mohan, is because, “During peak season, accommodation in Lambasingi and Araku almost fill up with local travellers. Even if you manage to book an accommodation, we don’t think our guests will like the idea of staying overnight at a packed destination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/peak-tourist-season-now-vacations-in-visakhapatnam-easier-on-pocket/articleshow/79517336.cms||Arpit Basu
December 2, 2020||Goa||‘Need white paper on future of Goa tourism’||Margao: Goans For Dabolim Only (GFDO) on Tuesday demanded a white paper on the future of Goa’s tourism industry considering the need to “re-evaluate if Goa’s aviation needs and projections will be able to support two airports in the tiny state which is already reeling under huge financial debt”. GFDO convener Fr Eremito Rebelo, while appreciating the extension plans for the existing integrated terminal building and apron at Dabolim airport, said that with the completion of the project, Dabolim airport will be well-equipped to serve Goa’s aviation needs for decades to come. “This expansion will increase the capacity of Dabolim airport to 1.1 crore passengers per year, once again raising questions about the feasibility and relevance of the proposed Mopa airport,” Rebello said. “The white paper needs to seriously examine whether it is likely that tourists will choose a coal transportation hub called Goa as a holiday destination. ” Rebelo said that the government has hinted at “repositioning Mopa as a cargo hub rather than a passenger airport” when it claimed in a recent official gazette that “initiatives requiring large investment to facilitate trade through Dabolim seem unviable in view of development of Mopa airport “Further, the government also proposed ‘exploring possibility of connecting Mopa airport by rail to Konkan railway (11km away)’,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-white-paper-on-future-of-goa-tourism/articleshow/79518593.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Tuda chairman's kin murder case: Accused held within 48 hours||TIRUPATI: Police on Tuesday arrested the lone accused in a murder case within 48 hours after the crime was reported. It may be recalled that Bharat Yadav, a relative of former Tuda chairman G Narasimha Yadav, was stabbed to death by a local youth at Lakshmipuram area in Tirupati on the night of Nov 29. Tirupati East police nabbed the lone accused K Shankar (21) near Narayanapuram cross at Tiruchanoor on Tuesday. Shankar reportedly got into a fight with Yadav and thrashed the latter in a fit of rage. Later, when Yadav took his family members to Shankar’s residence to reprimand him, Shankar suddenly took out a knife and stabbed Yadav to death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/murder-accused-held-within-48-hrs/articleshow/79517347.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vadodara||MLA seeks ‘love jihad’ law in state||Vadodara: Dabhoi BJP MLA Shailesh Mehta, who is also a heavyweight corporator from Vadodara, has sparked a controversy by suggesting that a law regarding ‘love jihad’ on the lines of Uttar Pradesh should be considered for Gujarat too. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance aims at curbing forcible or dishonest conversions including those for marriage. Mehta said that even other states are considering such a law and claimed that incidents where girls were enticed by telling lies or cheating them were on a rise. He added that he made the comments when asked about his opinion on the law in UP. According to Mehta, it was an altogether different situation if two persons from different faith married each other following rules and with proper understanding. He said that the intention was not to ban inter-faith marriages. “But in some cases people hide their real names and get into relationships with girls who are at times minors,” said Mehta. Mehta said that a strict law would ensure that girls are not cheated. He added that such incidents were increasing in his constituency Dabhoi as well as Vadodara city and district and the state too. “There are incidents where girls have been blackmailed too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mla-seeks-love-jihad-law-in-state/articleshow/79516666.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Tungabhadra Pushkaram ends||Tirupati: Tungabhadra Pushkaram concluded on a grand note with the conduct of Purnahuti rituals on the banks of Tungabhadra river in Kurnool district on Tuesday. The final day of the festival saw a huge rush of devotees. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa took part in the final day festivities. The festival, celebrated once every 12 years, was inaugurated by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Nov 20. Since then, working round the clock in two shifts, staffers from various government departments ensured that the 12-day mega event was conducted smoothly.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tungabhadra-pushkaram-ends/articleshow/79517371.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Surat||Estranged man harasses wife online||Surat: On allegations of posting derogatory messages about his wife and in-laws, cops booked a 28-year-old man in Singanpore police station on Monday. According to the police, Karan Vala was frustrated after his wife separated from him within a year of their marriage and shared the messages to vent his ire. The duo got married in 2017 after a brief affair going against the wishes of the woman’s family, cops added. Police booked Vala based on a complaint lodged by Ritesh Dhariya, the husband of the woman’s elder sister. Dhariya, a textile broker, alleged that Vala initially posted abusive language against his in-laws but later shared objectionable messages against his wife as well. The accused has been booked for defamatory messages, insulting modesty of women and intentional insult under Indian Penal Code. The accused has also been booked under IT Act. After they got separated, the woman came to live with her parents and Vala started the online posting of abusive messages. The family remained silent for a few months but after the harassment increased they approached the police, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/estranged-man-harasses-wife-online/articleshow/79517093.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||K’taka HC dashes disqualified MLC’s ministerial dreams||BENGALURU/MYSURU: Former Karnataka minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanath, whose chances of becoming a minister were dashed after the Karnataka high court held on Monday that his disqualification as MLA subsists as he is a nominated MLC and not an elected one, has accused the state advocate general (AG) of not arguing his case effectively and said he will move the Supreme Court against the order. Vishwanath told reporters that neither the AG nor BJP leaders helped him in his legal fight “which has hurt me deeply”. On Monday, the HC said the CM and the government, while taking any decision on inducting Vishwanath as a minister, should bear in mind that he remains a disqualified MLA unlike R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, whose disqualification has been negated by their election as MLCs. Without naming CM Yediyurappa, the disgruntled BJP MLC said: “The very people who benefited from their action and for med gover nment in Karnataka have failed to come to their rescue in difficult times.” In November last year, the Supreme Court, while upholding disqualification of Vishwanath and 16 other MLAs, had said that they cannot hold any public office till they get re-elected. Expressing support to Vishwanath, the party said it will “never backstab those who helped us form the government”. Law minister JC Madhuswamy said the government will discuss the issue with advocate general Prabhuling Navadig and “see what best can be done” in the case. The minister said though Vishwanath lost the Hunsur bypoll, he was nominated to the council in recognition to his support to the party. “Candidates who lose polls do not get this kind of recognition in any other party,” he added. The three council members — Vishwanath, Shankar and Nagaraj — were among the 17 MLAs who were disqualified from the Karnataka assembly, which led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) government. Later, they joined BJP. Nagaraj and Vishwanath contested the 2019 assembly bypolls unsuccessfully; while Shankar didn’t contest. They were made MLCs by BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ktaka-hc-dashes-disqualified-mlcs-ministerial-dreams/articleshow/79521126.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Srivari Kalyanam at Mantralayam||Tirupati: Srinivasa Kalyanam, the celestial wedding of Lord Venkateswara with Goddess Padmavathi, was conducted on the final day of Tungabhadra Pushkaram at the ancient Mantralayam shrine in Kurnool district on Tuesday. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams chairman Y V Subba Reddy and additional EO A V Dharma Reddy presented sesha vastrams and silk robes to Mantralayam pontiff Subudendrateertha Swamy and received his blessings on the auspicious 349th Aradhanotsavams of Sri Raghavendra Swamy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/srivari-kalyanam-at-mantralayam/articleshow/79517380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Three-day int’l conference at AU||Visakhapatnam: Andhra University department of English will host a three-day international conference on ‘Calamity and Catastrophe in World Literature in English’ from March 29–31, 2021. The focus of the conference will be on escalating violence and frictions among various ethnic, religious, regional, caste, class and gender groups. Some of the themes to be covered in the conference are: Ecological Imbalance and Degradation, Legitimisation of Violence, Impact of Globalisation and Urbanisation and Modernity.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/three-day-intl-conference-at-au/articleshow/79517390.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Abducted, had to pay Rs 48 lakh ransom, claims K’taka ex-minister||BENGALURU:Former Karnataka minister R Varthur Prakash has alleged that unidentified miscreants had abducted him and his driver from near his farmhouse in Kolar, about 70km from Bengaluru, on November 25 and released him three days later, after collecting Rs 48 lakh in ransom. The abduction of 54-yearold Prakash came to light on Tuesday after police seized his abandoned Toyota Fortuner SUV. Police identified Prakash as the owner of the SUV and approached him. Prakash informed police about his kidnap and said he did not file a complaint as the abductors had threatened to eliminate him if he did. Prakash told police in a complaint that he left his farmhouse to visit Kolar around 7pm on November 25. Eight members blocked his SUV and threatened him and driver Suneel with machetes. “The gang dragged me out, blindfolded my driver and me before driving us to an unknown place with legs and hands tied. They demanded Rs 30-crore for our safe release and assaulted us with machetes and rods,” Prakash said. He said he was unable to bear the torture and arranged Rs 48 lakh through an aide who handed over the money on November 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/abducted-had-to-pay-rs-48-lakh-ransom-claims-ktaka-ex-minister/articleshow/79521147.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Bengaluru||No plan for love jihad law: Karnataka minister JC Madhuswamy||BENGALURU: After Congress criticism, the BS Yediyurappa government clarified on Tuesday it had no plans to introduce a law against what is described as “love jihad”. “Our culture is a blend of religions, which are different from each other but co-exist. This is the beauty of our country. So, there is no question of bringing such a law in a country where Hindus are a majority,” said law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy. Recently, Uttar Pradesh and a few other BJP-governed states proposed a law to prevent what they claim are attempts to draw Hindu women into relationships with Muslim men and convert them. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai then said that Karnataka would study the model of these states and consult legal experts. Several senior BJP members, including national general secretary CT Ravi, had strongly supported the calls for such a law. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah said that Congress would oppose government attempts to enact laws against “love jihad” and cow slaughter in the new assembly session, which begins on December 7. “If they table the bills, Congress will oppose them tooth and nail. Why has such an act not been implemented in Goa, where BJP is the ruling party, and why only in Karnataka? This shows BJP is playing politics over the matter,” he said. Group slams new law in BJP-led statesMany organisations have criticised moves by BJPled states to frame laws against what is described as “love jihad”. The groups say the derogatory term discriminates against Muslims and undermines the freedom of women to make choices. The All India Lawyers’ Association for Justice, All India Mahila Sanskritika Sanghatane, All Indian Progressive Women’s Association and 14 other organisations condemned laws proposed or introduced. “We reject attempts to plant seeds of communalism and hatred,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-plan-for-love-jihad-law-karnataka-minister-jc-madhuswamy/articleshow/79521155.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||NCPCR order to repatriate kids rescinded: Centre||NEW DELHI: The Centre informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that it has rescinded an order of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) asking authorities in Karnataka to take steps for repatriation/restoration of children staying in childcare Institutions (CCIs) to homes of their parents and guardians. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices L N Rao and Hemant Gupta that though the court had taken cognisance of the NCPCR directive on October 9, the Centre had rescinded it on October 8. He said restoration/repatriation of children in CCIs would be done only after a thorough scrutiny by child welfare committees (CWCs) about the suitability of children for such repatriation/restoration and the eligibility of the parents to receive them, as provided under Section 40(3) of the Juvenile Justice Act. TOI had highlighted the issue and reported on October 17 that the NCPCR’s decision could push children back into insecure and abusive environments. Amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal told the court that once rescued, child witnesses/victims were sent back to their parents or state of residence whereas the case went on in a court in another state. He suggested that it would be ideal to have at least one video-conferencing room to facilitate child witnesses/victims to depose before far off courts. He said four states — Assam, Bihar, Rajasthan and West Bengal — required such facilities as child trafficking cases were recurring there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ncpcr-order-to-repatriate-kids-rescinded-centre/articleshow/79521162.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Kerala HC bats for transgenders in NCC, raps government||KOCHI: The world has progressed and the central government cannot remain in the 19th century, the Kerala high court remarked while considering a transgender student’s plea challenging exclusion from National Cadet Corps (NCC). Considering a petition filed by Hina Haneefa, Justice Devan Ramachandran made the remark to the counsel representing NCC, Haneefa has challenged section 6 of National Cadet Corps Act, 1948 that allows only males or females to enroll as NCC cadets. The court’s remark came after NCC’s counsel submitted that refusal of enrollment of the petitioner does not amount to discrimination. The counsel sought time to file an affidavit explaining the stance. Responding to the submission, the court said the stance that the central government is taking is unfortunate. There certainly are three genders — male, female, and transgender, the court said. The court also noted that the petitioner has decided to become a woman and has undergone the surgery too. NCC can admit her as a woman, the court suggested. However, NCC’s counsel submitted that the petitioner was admitted to her university as a transgender and she described herself as a transgender woman throughout the pleadings in the petition. But the court did not agree and said the government should have amended the NCC Act to make provision for transgender persons. NCC’s counsel submitted that date of enrolment to NCC has been deferred as per the court’s earlier order and no prejudice has been caused to the petitioner. The court has postponed the case as NCC’s counsel sought time to file counter affidavit. Times View: One of the benchmarks of a modern and progressive state lies in the way it treats its minorities. Transgenders are sexual minorities. They are often socially marginalised and excluded from activities that others take for granted. Their inclusion in the NCC would be a mini milestone in efforts to give them equality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-hc-bats-for-transgenders-in-ncc-raps-government/articleshow/79521165.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||SCO meet yielded good results: China||NEW DELHI: The Delhi SCO heads of government meeting yielded good outcomes and sent positive signals, China said on Tuesday. The Chinese foreign ministry also said China will continue working with all parties to implement the consensus reached at this meeting. Chinese Premier Li Keqiang on Monday attended the virtual meeting of the eight-member group which was also addressed by VP Venkaiah Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sco-meet-yielded-good-results-china/articleshow/79521176.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's daily Covid fatality rate dropped 58% in November; deaths among elders up||MUMBAI: Daily average Covid-19 deaths in the city dropped by 58% in November over the previous month- from 43 fatalities every day in October, it fell to 18. Besides the drastic drop in deaths, there has been another significant shift in the mortality trend. Almost 60% deaths were seen after 7-10 days of hospitalisation, unlike the initial months of the pandemic when majority deaths occurred within 24-48 hours of admission or within five days. In November, 560 deaths were reported in Mumbai, a 58% drop from 1,322 in October and 56% less from 1,271 in September. Over 73% of November deaths were of those above 60 years of age, while 80% had co-morbidities. While the ratio of deaths in people with co-morbidities remains consistent at 80%, deaths among elderly are rising. For instance, 71% deaths in September were of those above 60, which rose to 73% in November. The team that analyses Covid-19 deaths evaluated 60-80 deaths in randomly selected hospitals. Former KEM dean Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the audit committee, said maximum deaths were among seniors with co-morbidities who spent more than 7-15 days in a hospital without improvement. "This is a major shift we have seen now. Earlier, up to 40% deaths were within 24-48 hours, but that number has drastically shrunk," he said. Importantly, there are hardly any 'brought dead' cases now, he said. Deaths in 24-48 hours are indicative of poor understanding of Covid symptoms. Mumbai saw the highest number of Covid deaths in June: 3,277 lives were lost and case fatality rate was 8.6%, which civic officials said was partly because of reconciliation of previous unrecorded deaths. The toll began to decline in August. Though the city saw the highest number of Covid cases in September (60,400), deaths (1,271) were fewer than in June, July (1,797) and August (1,305), even though the positive cases in these months were almost half the number in September. Intensivist Dr Rahul Pandit concurred that not many deaths are being seen in younger patients. "Most deaths are in the second and third week of hospitalisation among elderly with comorbidities. They come to us when they are very sick and have 100% lung involvement or multi-organ dysfunction," he said. Factors that have helped to bring down the city's mortality, he said, include timely consultation with a doctor, fewer late presentations and adherence to treatment protocols across hospitals. Dr Trupti Trivedi, who heads the medical ICU at Sion Hospital, said the limited deaths in young patients are mainly due to stroke and heart attacks. "Many of them test positive for Covid but there is always the question whether it was an incidental infection," she said, adding that even the public hospital is seeing deaths after long hospitalisation. Dr Pandit said often when an elderly contracts Covid, relatives don't realise it as the person would not have stepped out of the house. "People living with elderly members need to be very cautious," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-daily-covid-fatality-rate-dropped-58-in-november-deaths-among-elders-up/articleshow/79521181.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 2, 2020||Mumbai||Urmila Matondkar praises Maharashtra CM as she joins Shiv Sena, says she's Hindu by janam and karam||MUMBAI: Almost a month after the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) recommended Urmila Matondkar's name for a seat in the legislative council under the governor's quota, the film actress joined the Shiv Sena in the presence of party president and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at Matoshree on Tuesday. "I am very impressed with Uddhav Thackeray's work," she said. "The way he handled the Covid pandemic, Nisarga cyclone and drought situation in one year was incredible. He is also interacting with the people of Maharashtra regularly like a family member." As she spoke to the media after the induction, she clarified her stand on joining a party with a Hindutva ideology and said she was also a Hindu. "Secularism does not mean to hate the other religion or to oppose and hate one's own religion," she said "I am a Hindu by 'janam' (birth) and 'karam' (actions). I have studied religion and also done yoga since childhood. Religion is not for show off but to keep in the heart and it is a matter of faith. Whenever required I have followed religion and will follow in future too." After her decision to join the Shiv Sena, she was trolled on social media over her ideology. Matondkar said she had not quit politics but only the Congress. "Not a mere 14 days but it is almost over 14 months since I quit the Congress, and now I have joined the Sena," she said. "I am trolled means I am on the right path. I have never opposed or blocked anyone. We should try to remove the vicious politics that exists in the system." Matondkar said the Congress had also offered her the seat in the council, but she had respectfully refused to accept it over some other reasons. On the speculation that UP CM Yogi Adityanath's visit here was an attempt to attract Bollywood to his state, she said she did not think such a shift was possible. On the Kangana Ranaut issue, she said: "I am not her fan. The issue has been spoken about a lot and there is no need to give much importance to the subject. In a democracy everyone is free to speak, but I will not reply to her now." Thackeray's wife, Rashmi, tied the 'Shiv Bandhan' (saffron thread) on Matondkar's wrist to induct her into the party. Urmila had fought the 2019 Lok Sabha election as a Congress candidate and was defeated by BJP candidate Gopal Shetty in North Mumbai. She quit the Congress in September alleging internal politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/urmila-matondkar-praises-maharashtra-cm-as-she-joins-shiv-sena-says-shes-hindu-by-janam-and-karam/articleshow/79521184.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 2, 2020||India||Didn’t order Covid posters on homes: Government||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said affixing Covid-positive notice outside coronavirus infected people’s residences made others treat them as untouchables even as the Centre said it has not issued any direction in this regard to state governments. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah that the health ministry has not issued any direction to states on affixing notices outside the residences of Covid-positive patients. “If it is done to malign somebody, it should be avoided,” he said. When Mehta said states could be doing this to warn strangers to the area to be careful in interacting with people of the household and take precautions while doing so, Justice Shah said, “The reality at the ground level is different, once the government affixes the notice, then people treat the infected person as an untouchable.” However, the bench expressed displeasure at the “all is well” affidavit filed by the Gujarat government while responding to questions on lax fire safety measures in hospitals, leading to two fires in hospitals in Ahmedabad and Rajkot in which 14 patients died. Justice Shah told the Gujarat government, “As per you, everything is alright. Your own electrical department says the wiring in the hospitals were of poor quality. Even then all is okay.” He then asked the solicitor general to look into the matter and said, “An attempt is being made to suppress facts.” Mehta said he would speak with the state government for necessary remedial action. In its affidavit, the Centre said the home ministry has asked all states and UTs to submit by December 4 “status reports on implementation of fire safety norms as provided in various advisories, issued from time to time as quoted in the letter, to prevent recurrence of fire accidents in hospitals/nursing homes”. The Centre said states and UTs will also submit by December 4 action taken reports on the enquiry conducted by them for incidents of fires that have occurred in hospitals in their respective states during the last five years. They have been asked to examine the building plans of hospitals and report if they conformed to the national building code by December 15. The SC posted the fire safety issue for hearing on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didnt-order-covid-posters-on-homes-government/articleshow/79521188.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 2, 2020||India||Adverse event kept a secret, vaccine volunteers feel betrayed||NEW DELHI: Several participants in Serum Institute’s Covid vaccine trial who were given the second shot of the vaccine well after the serious adverse event reported by a trial participant in Chennai feel betrayed that they were not told about the Chennai incident. Trial participants that TOI spoke to confirmed that none of them had been informed about the adverse event that occurred in Chennai. All of them had participated in the trial out of a sense of doing something useful and good for the larger society. Meanwhile, in a press briefing on Tuesday, the Union health secretary said he could not go comment on the specific adverse event because the participant had filed a case in court and he did not want to comment on a court matter. However, the trial participant’s lawyer said only a legal notice has been sent and two weeks have been given for all parties to respond. “No case has been filed yet. And the company has not even sent a legal notice, only talked about filing a suit in the media,” said his advocate R Rajaram. Coronavirus in India: Live updates“I got my first shot on October 8 and the second shot on November 6. The participant in Chennai reported sick on October 11. Why didn’t they tell us about it? This case came out only because the participant threatened to file a suit. Who knows how many such cases have actually happened that we don’t even know about,” asked Anil Hebbar, adding that he would have taken the second dose anyway but feels it was the duty of those involved to inform all the participants. Hebbar said he felt compelled to speak out on behalf of other trial participants and the millions who would be getting the vaccine. Read Also‘Adverse event’ won’t affect vaccine rollout plan: GovernmentICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava said adverse events occur with drugs, vaccines or any other health interventions. It is the role of the regulator after collating all the data to ascertain or refute whether there is a causal link between the event and the intervention., he said.Another participant said she was told by her doctor on Tuesday who called up because she is due for a physical check-up after taking the second shot on November 6. “She claimed that she did not know anything about it till now and said I did not have to worry because the adverse event reported from Chennai was not because of the vaccine. They should have told us. At this moment, I am not completely trusting them,” said the participant, adding that she was trying not to think too much about it. Yet another participant said the principal investigator at the trial site claimed that all PIs in the vaccine trial were informed of the adverse event. “But the person decided not to tell the participants, which I don’t think is right,” said the trial volunteer. “They are saying they didn’t tell me because they thought I might get scared. Now my doctor is saying the serious adverse event was not caused by the vaccine. But what if it was causally linked? Should she not have waited to find that out before giving all of us the second dose?” asked Hebbar. He added that he has lost friends to Covid-19 and has seen his 85-year-old mother, a cancer survivor, live in fear of being infected, which impelled him to volunteer. “I participated hoping that could help bring out a vaccine faster. But I am shocked by the company threatening to sue a participant like me,” said Hebbar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adverse-event-kept-a-secret-vaccine-volunteers-feel-betrayed/articleshow/79521198.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC orders CAG audit into govt’s Amphan relief measures||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday directed the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India to conduct “financial and performance audits” into the Amphan relief fund utilisation in Bengal in the next three months. The court, however, left it to the central and state governments to decide how to act if the audit found any irregularity. It also made it clear that this order would not interfere with ongoing relief measures and said it was confident that Bengal would cooperate with the CAG for the two-tier audit. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee gave a seven-page order on five separate writ petitions that alleged discrepancies in Amphan relief. The allegations, the HC pointed out in its order, were three-fold: some alleged that people not affected by the May devastation had got relief; there was no information in public domain on “the real beneficiaries”; and many who actually suffered did not get relief.  The CAG had “the necessary constitutional, statutory and administrative sanction, power and authority” to conduct a “financial audit and performance audit” into the allegations. “This will pave the way for the competent authority (either the central or the state government or both) to decide the next course of action if the audit traces fault,” the court said, leaving it to the CAG to decide how it wanted to conduct the audit. The HC also said the CAG could issue orders to ensure the “meaningful implementation of the order”, adding that the objective was to “ensure no fund was abused in the name of Amphan”. The bench also included in the audit’s ambit allegations that “the list of Amphan relief beneficiaries shown on the state government’s website does not reflect the true state of affairs”. In a November 25 order, the HC had said: “Public funds meant for use in such a situation cannot be utilised except in strict conformity with the principles governing the distribution of state funds in times of need.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cal-hc-orders-cag-audit-into-govts-amphan-relief-measures/articleshow/79520383.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 2, 2020||Vadodara||Another fake school marksheets scam unearthed||Vadodara: While the city police are still trying to reach to the bottom of the fake university marksheet scam, another similar scam was unearthed by Navapura police. A man living in Kalali was arrested near Lalbaug bridge for selling bogus marksheets and certificates of the central government’s National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS). The accused Pemendra Banker was detained on November 29 on suspicion along with a bag. When taken to the police station, cops found several SSC and HSC marksheets of NIOS, provisional and migration certificate. Marksheets of Monad University located in Uttar Pradesh were also found on Banker. On verifying them, all the certificates were found to be bogus. During interrogation, Banker told police that a man from Mount Abu named Avadhoot Dixit makes all certificates and sends them to him. “Banker collects all details from students who want fake certificates for admission and sends them to Dixit through WhatsApp. Based on details, Dixit prepares the certificates,” said a police official. When detained, Banker was waiting to finalize a deal with a potential customer. Cops are now investigating to find all students who had purchased or were about to collect certificates from Banker. “We will also be arresting the man from Mount Abu who had prepared the bogus certificates once we get more details about his whereabouts,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-fake-school-marksheets-scam-unearthed/articleshow/79516697.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Shilbhadra Dutta declines ‘political talks’ with I-PAC team||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta on Tuesday declined political discussions with election strategist Prashant Kishor-led I-PAC team members when they called on him to hold talks over his candidature for the 2021 Bengal assembly polls. Dutta was not at home when Trinamool North 24 Parganas president Jyotipriya Mullick went to meet him later. “I don’t have any grouse against PK’s team as the agency is working on the instructions of our party. But I didn’t want any discussion with them over my candidature. I have decided against contesting elections this time and I haven’t changed my mind. I have already conveyed it to my party seniors. This is purely on personal grounds. There were problems within the party in Barrackpore and I have duly informed our leaders about them earlier. Nothing has been done. But I don’t have any angst and I don’t have plans to leave the party either,” the Barrackpore MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/shilbhadra-declines-political-talks-with-i-pac-team/articleshow/79519871.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||‘Pandemic has affected AIDS detection drives in Jharkhand’||RANCHI: The pandemic has thrown Jharkhand’s HIV detection programme off the track this year, officials of the Jharkhand State Aids Control Society (JSACS) conceded on Tuesday. “Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24, our laboratory technicians at the HIV testing centres were pulled in to test Covid-19 samples across the state. As its result, the HIV testing in Jharkhand was badly affected all these months,” Rajiv Ranjan, project director of JSACS, told TOI on the sidelines of a function which was organized to observe the World Aids Day. Ranjan said JSACS does not have an exact count of the patients which contracted the deadly virus this year. “However, we have begun aggressive testing for a month to detect new infections,” he said. Jharkhand has 66 HIV testing centres, each of which is equipped with a technician and a counsellor. As on date, many technicians manning these centres are still on Covid duty on deputation basis. As per JSACS, there are approximately 25,700 people living with HIV in Jharkhand. Of them, 1,879 cases were reported between April 2019 and March 2020. A year before that, 1,791 cases were detected. The pandemic, which infected 1.09 lakh people in Jharkhand and killed 964 people so far, exposed the state’s frail infrastructure and skeletal manpower resources. In the peak of infections, the department of health, medical education and family welfare scourged for paramedics, microbiologists and lab technicians on contract, but received a lukewarm response. Ranjan also said providing medicines to HIV patients during the lockdown was a challenge. “Though we had stocks of ART medicines (anti-retroviral treatment) enough to last a year, we had to deliver them to the patient’s doorsteps as they could not visit ART centres due to the lockdown,” he said. There are 12 ART centres statewide, including three medical colleges and district hospitals while a new one in Gumla is pending approval of the National Aids Control Organization (NACO). Health minister Banna Gupta, who attended the function as a chief guest, said, “The Union government is aiming to eradicate HIV from the country by 2030. In Jharkhand, we are striving to eradicate the deadly disease by 2025.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-has-affected-aids-detection-drives-in-state/articleshow/79518295.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt starts running PHCs with help from NGOs||SINDRI: In order to rejuvenate the crumbling healthcare system due to lack of medical and para-medical support staff, the state government has decided to run the primary health centres (PHCs) with the help of NGOs. On Tuesday, Dhanbad’s Chirkunda PHC became the first to be operated by and NGO on a public-private partnership. Ganesh Reddy, secretary cum CEO of Citizens Foundation, said the NGO has been entrusted by the Jharkhand chapter of the National Health Mission (NHM) to take charge of Chirkunda PHC on the occasion of the World AIDS Day. “Citizens Foundation has signed an MoU with NHM Jharkhand for 11 such PHCs across six districts in the state,” Reddy said and added the decision will prove to be beneficial for the state in the long run. “We have worked for over a decade in operating community healthcare centres and tribal MESO Hospitals for Meghalaya NHM and Jharkhand Tribal Development Society on a similar model,” he added. “In many states, such a model has been underway for years,” he said. Dhanbad civil surgeon Dr Gopal Das said that since the agreement has been reached at the state level, he has just been informed about Chirkunda and another PHC to be handed over to the NGO. “Just like the previous arrangements, consultations and treatment for the people walking in will continue to be free of cost,” he said, adding that the NGO will use the existing infrastructural facilities of the PHC and deploy its own manpower and provide other facilities as needed. “Medicines will be supplied by the state government as usual,” Das said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-starts-running-phcs-with-help-from-ngos/articleshow/79518550.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to virtually speak at Oxford Union debate today||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to virtually address The Oxford Union Debate on Wednesday. She would speak about development projects, Nabanna sources hinted. Banerjee had received the invitation to speak on the prestigious platform in July. She will be the first Indian woman leader and an administrative head to address it, and joins a galaxy of leaders — US presidents Ronald Reagan, Jimmy Carter, Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton; British PMs Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher, David Cameron and Theresa May; and legends like Albert Einstein, Michael Jackson and the Dalai Lama — who have spoken on this platform. The sources said there were thousands of questions received, of which Banerjee would answer some. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-to-virtually-speak-at-oxford-union-debate-today/articleshow/79520401.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal CM says real politics is of the heart, slams drama driven by teleprompter||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday did a Donald Trump — who had mocked his rivals for using teleprompters — taking on BJP by drawing a contrast between “teleprompter-driven politics” and the “one that comes from the heart”. Banerjee sharpened her attack against BJP and the Centre a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi targeted the West Bengal government from Varanasi when he said there was one state that didn’t implement Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi because if farmers had got the money, then Modi would have gained mileage. “Reading out a regional language from the invisible teleprompter is no big deal. You can’t see the screen but we know. It was introduced in the US long ago. We are now seeing it in India,” she said. “I know many languages and make it a point to speak a few words in the language of that state wherever I go,” she continued. “But I never boast of it. We have had enough of publicity and drama. If someone comes on the dais to read out a scripted speech and the papers are blown away, he is left with nothing to speak. A speech that comes from the heart only can touch people. Here is a political party that is a garbage of lies.” Banerjee went vitriolic against Modi’s jibe at the Bengal government over Kisan Samman Nidhi. “We have our own Krishak Bandhu scheme under which farmers get Rs 5,000 a year. Unlike the central scheme that a farmer having a minimum 2 acre farmland can avail, our scheme has a wider access. A marginal farmer having a 1 cottah plot can benefit from Krishak Bandhu,” she said. “Yet, I wrote to the PM to transfer the money of the central scheme to the state government,” the CM further said. “We will make direct bank transfers to beneficiaries. We will use the same bank channel that we use for our Krishak Bandhu scheme.” Banerjee explained how two other state schemes — Swasthya Sathi and Bangla Fasal Bima — fared better than their central counterparts. “The Centre proposes to give Rs 5 lakh each to 1.5 crore people in West Bengal under Ayushman Bharat scheme. Our health scheme provides the same amount and has universal health coverage. The Centre bears 60% of Ayushman Bharat expenses while it leaves to states and the beneficiaries to bear the remaining 40%. Why should we bear the 40% expenses when we have our own scheme in which we bear the entire expenditure?” she said “The same is the case with Bangla Fasal Bima. The state bears the entire crop insurance premium. Farmers don’t have to pay anything. This is not the case with the Centre’s crop insurance,” Banerjee added. The CM emphasised that Bengal would never bow under the Centre’s pressure even if it tried to “armtwist” Trinamool leaders by engaging agencies against them or sending some of them to jail. “These people do not abide by constitutional norms. They fish out a piece of paper from their pockets and make the state government introduce that scheme. They have no plan from where the funds will come. We won’t surrender to their diktats, come what may,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-says-real-politics-is-of-the-heart-slams-drama-driven-by-teleprompter/articleshow/79519851.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu meets Abhishek, PK amid patch-up talks||Kolkata: Rebel Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari, who resigned from the state cabinet barely four days ago, met Trinamool seniors at a north Kolkata address on Tuesday evening, prompting the party to claim that Suvendu was “firmly with the Trinamool” and “there was no question of him going anywhere”. There was no word from Suvendu himself about the outcome of the hush-hush dialogue but it was the rebel leader’s first face-to-face meeting in the last few months with CM Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Diamond Harbour MP, Abhishek Banerjee, and party strategist Prashant Kishor (also present were senior party MPs Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandyopadhyay). “Suvendu was happy with the antorikota (sincerity) on display,” a senior Trinamool leader told TOI after the meeting. “There was a phone call from the meeting to Kalighat (CM Banerjee’s residence),” the Trinamool veteran said, adding that “everyone was happy that Suvendu finally agreed to meet Abhishek and Kishor”. Trinamool leaders said Suvendu had been “requested” to be present at Mamata’s Midnapore rally next week and was promised that he would have “an important role to play in selection of candidates for the assembly polls”. Trinamool MP Roy, entrusted with the task of engaging Suvendu in talks and keeping him in the party fold, insisted that Suvendu was “very much with the Trinamool” and would not be “going anywhere”. “I have been insisting for the last 10 days that he would not leave the Trinamool,” the veteran MP said, adding: “We needed to meet face-to-face and, hence, Tuesday’s meeting. All is fine, it was a good meeting (Sab mite giyechhe, bhalo meeting hoyechhe). Suvendu may clarify his position to the media on Wednesday.” Other Trinamool Congress seniors, too, said “too much should not be read into” Suvendu’s continued silence even after Tuesday’s meeting, which they called “a significant ice-breaker”. There has been speculation — which Suvendu or his politically influential family has not denied — that his rebellion was against the increasing importance of Abhishek and strategist Kishor in the party and his being “sidelined” within the organisation. Suvendu has been holding “apolitical” rallies on home turf East Midnapore and neighbouring districts like West Midnapore and Hooghly over the last few weeks. He quit his transport and irrigation portfolios on Friday, asking for “immediate acceptance” of his resignation, and a day before that resigned from the Hooghly River Bridge Commissioner chairman’s post. He also gave up the Haldia Development Authority’s chairmanship and his Z-category security and government flats, fuelling speculation that he would be quitting the Trinamool Congress as well. BJP seniors like state party chief Dilip Ghosh and Congress seniors, including Bengal unit chief Adhir Chowdhury, have actively wooed Suvendu, calling him an “asset” for any party. On Tuesday evening, however, things appeared to have taken a dramatic turn. The meeting, which started around 6 p.m. and ended a little before 9 p.m., capped a day of intense activity. Suvendu started from his Contai home on Tuesday morning, setting off speculation that he would be going to the state legislature to submit his resignation as a Trinamool MLA. He never reached the Vidhan Sabha but, instead, headed to the north Kolkata address. Trinamool seniors said only the top leadership (referring to the Bengal CM) and the people present at the meeting knew what was unfolding. Suvendu did not take calls after the meeting and his father and Trinamool Contai MP, Sisir Adhikari, was cryptic in his reaction. “I came to know of the developments from television channels. It will be good for the Trinamool if Suvendu does not leave the party,” the family patriarch said. One of Suvendu’s brothers, Dibyendu, is the Trinamool MP from Tamluk and another brother, Soumendu, is the chairman of the Contai Municipality. The BJP responded guardedly with party Bengal chief Ghosh contending that “Suvendu’s staying back with the Trinamool is not a blow to the BJP”. “It is the Trinamool’s internal matter. I have nothing to say if they can manage the feud. I can only say that the BJP is confident of its own strength in Bengal. But our doors are still open for Suvendu,” he added. Central leader and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya still sounded hopeful: “I am sure Suvendu will not bend before anyone.” Suvendu has been one of the Trinamool’s mainstays since when it was an opposition party in Bengal a decade ago. The Adhikari clan controls a substantial part of the party apparatus in East Midnapore (which has 16 seats) but Suvendu’s influence extends beyond his own Nandigram constituency and East Midnapore district, with pockets of support in the Jangalmahal districts (West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram) and Murshidabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-meets-abhishek-pk-amid-patch-up-talks/articleshow/79520397.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||What happened to the crores spent through PM-Cares Fund, asks Mamata Banerjee||KOLKATA: Calling CPM a “trusted lieutenant” of BJP, CM Mamata Banerjee took exception to the party’s raising the “Amphan relief” corruption issue against Trinamool. She wanted to know the status of the PM-Cares Fund. “What has the Centre done for Amphan victims? We stood by them and if someone had done some wrong, we asked them to refund the amount,” Banerjee said. “I want to know what has happened to the crores spent through the PM-Cares Fund. Has there been any audit? Now the Centre wants to pin down the state government on the Amphan relief issue because Bengal polls are ahead. Engage as many agencies you like, we are not going to give an inch of Bengal without battle,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/what-happened-to-the-crores-spent-through-pm-cares-fund-asks-mamata/articleshow/79519854.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||Paddy procurement kicks off from Ranchi||RANCHI: The state government has began procurement of paddy from farmers at the minimum support price (MSP) through 23 centres set up in Ranchi district. The procurement centres in other districts will start operating within a couple of days, state food and civil supplies department said on Tuesday. Talking to TOI, state food and civil supplies department director Vineet Tirkey said, “Ranchi has officially begun procurement of paddy from Tuesday. The final modalities of setting up procurement centres in the remaining 23 districts are underway. We are starting the process of procurement at least two weeks in advance this year.” The state government has fixed a target of procuring paddy to the tune of 4.5 lakh metric ton from 1.60 lakh farmers in Jharkhand. Tirkey said that around 1,42,118 farmers have already enrolled with the department to sell their produce and they are expecting to achieve the targeted number by mid-December. Last year, nearly 1.39 lakh farmers had enrolled for selling paddy. “The number of farmers will increase this year as the enrolment process will be conducted till December 15,” he said. Around 300 procurement centres are being set up across the state. “Compared to last year, we have increased procurement centres by 20% this time,” Tirkey said. A minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868 per quintal for normal paddy and Rs 1,888 per quintal for grade A quality along with an additional bonus of Rs 182 per quintal has been fixed this year. Moreover, as per the arrangement, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will run procurement centres in Latehar, Chatra and Garhwa districts and the rest will be handled by the state food corporation. Jharkhand is expecting a bumper kharif harvest this year because of good monsoon and timely sowing. Sabhir Ahmad, the district supply officer of Ranchi, said that figures of the first day of procurement were still to be compiled. “As per the norms, an sms is sent to every registered farmer asking them to bring their stock to the procurement centres. Once the stock arrives, officials at the centre will have to make an entry of the paddy that is being purchased. The farmer will again receive an sms about successful transaction of the paddy, post which 50% money will be credited to his bank account. The remaining amount will be given later after all other formalities are over,” Ahmad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paddy-procurement-kicks-off-from-ranchi/articleshow/79518499.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Activists ask Uddhav Thackeray to ensure Stan Swamy is treated with dignity||RANCHI: Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasaba (JJM), a conglomeration of several rights groups, on Monday wrote to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urging him to ensure that the 83-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy is provided all required amenities in jail and treated with dignity. Calling Swamy a “public-spirited citizen” who dedicated his life working for the cause of adivasi rights in Jharkhand, JJM appealed to the Maharashtra government to arrest the actual perpetrators of the violence in Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018 to and ensure speedy trial of the case. Swamy is in Taloja jail since he was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from his residence in Ranchi on October 8. “He is a Parkinson’s patient and suffers with severe tremors in both his hands. He has trouble drinking water from a glass, taking a bath and washing clothes on his own. He is also suffering from hearing problems and needs hearing aid in both ears. He was also operated twice for hernia in the recent past,” the letter, a copy of which is also sent to Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, read. The letter accused jail authorities of denying Swamy a straw and sipper, forcing the under-trial octogenarian to move court for those. “It is also disappointing that the court simply rejected Stan Swamy’s plea without addressing the basic issue. We would also like to bring to your notice that the jail authorities also refused to allow Swamy access to warm clothes sent by his family. This is a serious violation of basic rights of an elderly person with disability. We request the Maharashtra government to ensure amenities and dignity to the undertrial activists,” JMM pleaded, adding that only after widespread condemnation, the jail authorities finally gave a sipper to Stan Swamy on November 29. “We would also take this opportunity to appeal to arrest the actual perpetrators of the violence in Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018 – primarily Milind Ekbote and Sambhaji Bhide (leaders of Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan and Hindu Ekta Aghadi) and ensure speedy trial of their case to expose the blatant attempts by the NIA to target activists, lawyers and intellectuals by false cases,” noted the letter dated November 30 and was released to media on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/activists-ask-uddhav-to-ensure-swamy-is-treated-with-dignity/articleshow/79518673.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Jamshedpur||‘Pandemic has affected AIDS detection drives in Jharkhand’||RANCHI: The pandemic has thrown Jharkhand’s HIV detection programme off the track this year, officials of the Jharkhand State Aids Control Society (JSACS) conceded on Tuesday. “Since the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24, our laboratory technicians at the HIV testing centres were pulled in to test Covid-19 samples across the state. As its result, the HIV testing in Jharkhand was badly affected all these months,” Rajiv Ranjan, project director of JSACS, told TOI on the sidelines of a function which was organized to observe the World Aids Day. Ranjan said JSACS does not have an exact count of the patients which contracted the deadly virus this year. “However, we have begun aggressive testing for a month to detect new infections,” he said. Jharkhand has 66 HIV testing centres, each of which is equipped with a technician and a counsellor. As on date, many technicians manning these centres are still on Covid duty on deputation basis. As per JSACS, there are approximately 25,700 people living with HIV in Jharkhand. Of them, 1,879 cases were reported between April 2019 and March 2020. A year before that, 1,791 cases were detected. The pandemic, which infected 1.09 lakh people in Jharkhand and killed 964 people so far, exposed the state’s frail infrastructure and skeletal manpower resources. In the peak of infections, the department of health, medical education and family welfare scourged for paramedics, microbiologists and lab technicians on contract, but received a lukewarm response. Ranjan also said providing medicines to HIV patients during the lockdown was a challenge. “Though we had stocks of ART medicines (anti-retroviral treatment) enough to last a year, we had to deliver them to the patient’s doorsteps as they could not visit ART centres due to the lockdown,” he said. There are 12 ART centres statewide, including three medical colleges and district hospitals while a new one in Gumla is pending approval of the National Aids Control Organization (NACO). Health minister Banna Gupta, who attended the function as a chief guest, said, “The Union government is aiming to eradicate HIV from the country by 2030. In Jharkhand, we are striving to eradicate the deadly disease by 2025.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/pandemic-has-affected-aids-detection-drives-in-state/articleshow/79525855.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 2, 2020||Surat||In negative times, two Positives’ love story brings new hope||Surat: ‘Everybody sees the cloud, but not many can spot the rainbow behind it,’ goes a saying. While positivity needs courage, the word positive itself has been much maligned now, first by the dreaded HIV and then the global pandemic. At a time when ‘be positive’ has almost become a cuss word, not many, like Bhuvan Jignesh, 26, and Nisha, 23, (all names changed) two HIV positive youngsters would trade their optimism for anything less. Born with the virus two decades ago, the duo had lost all hopes in life after being diagnosed with HIV infection at a very young age. However, with the support of family and friends they wanted to say yest to life than give in to the shadows of fear. Their relentless and efficacious efforts to progress in life yielded in finding beautiful soulmates too to share the beautiful journey ahead. “Love and hope can defeat anything. If we can live happily with HIV we will take control of Covid-19 as well,” the joyous couple told TOI. Bhuvan and Nisha got married on October 25 during unlock 5 after a brief online affair. “HIV positive status was a shocker not only for me but the family too as no one was aware about their health status. HIV was congenital for me. I was in college then, but I didn’t let the news envelope me, but decided to fight it,” said Bhuvan, an accountant. Nisha was in school when she too was tested for HIV after her father tested positive of the virus. “I lost both parents at a young age, but didn’t lose my vision for a better life. I studied well and earned a degree to create my own rainbow,” said the graduate in social work. The duo registered in a marriage bureau for HIV positive people and found each other online in 2019. They friendship gradually bloomed into an affair and finally decided to marry in March 2020. But the Covid-19 enforced lockdown delayed their plans. “We were desperately waiting for the lockdown to be lifted and organised the marriage with all family and friends in Uttarakhand at the first available opportunity,” the couple said. On World AIDS Day while the newlyweds get busy managing online match-making fair for HIV positive people, secretary of GSNP+ Daksha Patel said, “They are our messengers to other HIV positive people. In tough times of Covid-19 people like them show us the way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-negative-times-two-positives-love-story-brings-new-hope/articleshow/79517127.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 2, 2020||Ranchi||Work resumes at ACC factory amid cop protection||Sindri: Production at the Sindri-based ACC cement factory resumed on Tuesday amidst police presence a day after the Monday clash between protesting villagers and police. The protestors had blocked the entrance of the factory since 6:30am and were demanding jobs for the locals in the factory. Later, the protest turned violent, prompting police to fire six rounds in the air to disperse the mob. Sindri police filed a case under Sections 147,148,149,323,324,379,353,307,120b, 188, 268,269,270 and 271 of the IPC and Section 3 of the damaging public property Act against 39 persons, including the district president of Tiger Force Dharamjeet Singh. As many as 11 persons, including ACC unit president of Jharkhand Vikash Shramik Sangh (JVSS) Satyendra Chaturvedi, were arrested on Monday and sent to judicial custody on Tuesday, said officials. Meanwhile, Rajkumar Yadav, Vinod Kumar and Satyendra Chaturvedi of JVSS filed an FIR against Dadan Yadav, Santosh Chaudhary, Prakash Giri, Vishnu Dev and Lucky Singh, who are supporters of the recognised union of ACC, for assaulting their family members on Monday night at the instance of union leader Jairam Singh Yadav. “The SDO is enquiring into the allegations,” said officer in-charge of Sindri police station Raj Kapoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/work-resumes-at-acc-factory-amid-cop-protection/articleshow/79518258.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 2, 2020||Kolkata||Dooars Adivasi leader defects to Trinamool||Kolkata: Dooars Adivasi leader Leos Khujur, a BJP candidate in the 2016 assembly polls, defected to Trinamool Congress on Tuesday along with 20 tribal people from north Bengal. Soon after, TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar attacked the Narendra Modi government, alleging that “Dalits are not well under BJP rule”. Khujur and the others were handed over party flags by state cabinet ministers Molay Ghatak and Chandrima Bhattacharya at the party’s Trinamool Bhawan headquarters. Khujur, a political activist and social worker from north Bengal, contested from the Kumargram constituency in 2016. TMC won this seat. Speaking to the media prior to the joining, Bhattacharya said, “Khujur wanted to become part of the development under chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s leadership and so he joined the party. We all welcome him and we think more people will understand and come to our party.” Later, Ghosh Dastidar said: “Dalits are in a very bad shape. So many years after independence, the law to safeguard the interest of Harijans has not yet been passed. Before elections they visit a Dalit family with food from a five-star hotel and after election Dalit women are raped and Dalit people are killed.” “If they have so much love for tribals, Dalits and the minorities, why are they not standing behind them? Why after so many years one man will have to clear the physical waste of other people?” Ghosh Dastidar asked. Ghosh Dastidar claimed CM Banerjee had been working hard for the development of these backward classes. “More than 3 lakh people have been given homes in the tea gardens of north Bengal through our chief minister’s ‘Cha Sundari’ project. She has given recognition to Santhali language and Alchiki script, which in itself is recognition of people belonging to these communities. Extensive arrangements of their education and development have also been made,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dooars-adivasi-leader-defects-to-trinamool/articleshow/79519864.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 2, 2020||Chennai||Centre notifies 10 new judges for Madras HC||CHENNAI: The Union law ministry on Tuesday notified the appointment of 10 new judges to the Madras high court, taking the total number of judges in the court to 64. The sanctioned strength is 75. The new judges - Kannammal Shanmuga Sundaram, Sathikumar Sukumara Kurup, Murali Shankar Kuppuraju, Manjula Ramaraju Nalliah, Thamilselvi T Valayapalayam, G Chandrasekharan, A A Nakkiran, Sivagnanam Veerasamy, Ilangovan Ganesan and Ananthi Subramanian - are all senior district judges who will be appointed as additional HC judges, initially for a period of two years. On September 23, the Supreme Court collegium approved their elevation. As per rules, one-third of high court judges will be elevated from the subordinate judiciary, rest from Bar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-notifies-10-new-judges-for-madras-hc/articleshow/79521215.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Karnataka eyes night curfew around January 1||BENGALURU: Amid concerns of a possible second wave of Covid-19 infections, the government may reintroduce night curfew during the New Year week, according to a draft advisory prepared by the health department based on recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee, reports ChethanKumar. The second wave may hit Karnataka during January-February 2021, as per the advisory on recognition and containment measures. Listing recommended measures, the draft, accessed by TOI, reads: “Ban New Year public celebrations from December 26 to January 1 in resorts, hotels, on roads (MG road, Brigade Road in Bengaluru), etc, and impose night curfew between 8pm and 5am during this period.” Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare, told TOI: “This is a draft report.The government will take a final decision at the ministerial level.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-eyes-night-curfew-around-january-1/articleshow/79521221.cms||---
December 2, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Top five show a decline, but cases rising in 5 other states||NEW DELHI: Active Covid-19 cases in the top five states — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal — have come down in the last one month but the number of infections is going up in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, MP, Haryana and Rajasthan, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday. He said new cases were declining consistently after it peaked in mid-September with the cumulative positivity rate dropping to 6.7% on December 1 from 7.1% on November 11, whereas the average daily positivity rate during last week was 3.7%. “In November, the number of recoveries has been more than the number of new cases,” he said. The share of active cases in the total positive cases has shrunk to 4.6%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-five-show-a-decline-but-cases-rising-in-5-other-states/articleshow/79521235.cms||---
December 2, 2020||Chennai||In a blow to govt, Madras HC says no all-pass sans arrear exams||CHENNAI: In a major setback to the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to grant allpass to several lakh arrearholding college students citing the pandemic, the Madras high court said no state university can declare results without conducting examinations either online or offline. The court also made it clear that universities were free to conduct arrear exams despite the government order cancelling them. Wondering how the state could compel universities to cancel examinations with a GO, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha said exams could now be conducted either online or offline or a combination of both. The case was then posted for further hearing on January 11. The HC passed the interim order on Tuesday, refusing to accept the state’s contention that the exams were cancelled in the interest of students and to safeguard lives. As to the allegation that some universities have already declared results, the bench directed such institutes not to proceed till further orders. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas moved by former vice-chancellor of Anna University E Balagurusamy, advocate Ramkumar Adityan and others challenging the GO cancelling arrear exams. When the plea came up for hearing, the UGC clarified that students who have not cleared backlogs would not be eligible for even a course completion certificate. Earlier, the state department of higher education filed an affidavit justifying cancelling the exams, saying the decision was made only to alleviate distresses faced by the student community due to Covid-19. Denying the argument that such an order would amount to discrimination among students, the department said, “The decision would not demoralise meritorious students as only moderated minimum pass mark is awarded to arrear students... As this situation was unprecedented, students had left their belongings, textbooks, notebooks and laptops in their hostel. Therefore, they had no access to their study material.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-a-blow-to-govt-madras-hc-says-no-all-pass-sans-arrear-exams/articleshow/79521240.cms||Suresh Kumar
December 2, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Ex-secretary, who wouldn't tweak Rs 2,000 crore tender, joins MNM||CHENNAI: Former IAS officer Santhosh Babu, who took voluntary retirement after opposing alleged violations in BharatNet tender, joined actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam on Tuesday. He was appointed as the party's headquarters general secretary. Meeting reporters for the first time post retirement, the 1995-batch IAS officer who helmed the TN Fibrenet Corporation (TANFINET) between 2018-19 in his capacity as principal secretary, Information Technology department, said the issues surrounding BharatNet tender was the triggering point for quitting service. Asked about the extent of the scam, he said, "Until now, there is no scam in the (2,000 crore) BharatNet project." Santhosh Babu said it was Kamal Haasan's upright approach that attracted him to MNM. ‘Our potential is world class but thinking is low’The officer who hails from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala had put up a tough fight with the political executives to prevent loot under the guise of implementing the project. He refused to tweak the tender norms. When the going got tough, he resigned in August. Finally, Centre stepped in and put brakes on the tender. He told reporters that there was pressure from the power centres, but refused to elaborate, saying, “You (journalists) know better”. Noting that he had plans to go to the Centre on deputation, he said after the issue cropped up, he was neither able to implement the ambitious project nor was he able to go to the Centre on deputation. With an upright leader at the top, the bureaucracy in the state can do wonders, he said. “Our potential is high and world class, but our thinking is low,” he summed up about the bureaucracy. Haasan welcomed Babu into the party and handed over the party membership card. “We have created an environment to attract talented and honest persons into the party,” Haasan said. Haasan criticised the Narendra Modi government’s way of handling the farmers’ protest in Delhi and compared it to Nero fiddling while Rome burned. Modi should turn around and see what was happening in the country and he should hold dialogues with the protesters, he said. The issue should not be handled in a reckless manner, he said. On Rajinikanth’s possibility of entering politics, he said he would put Rajini’s health on top of the priority list rather than his political moves. Kamal said he would seek his “good friend” Rajinikanth’s support for his party if the latter did not take political plunge. Kamal expressed displeasure over the handling of cyclone Nivar by the Edappadi K Palaniswami government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-ex-secretary-who-wouldnt-tweak-rs-2000-crore-tender-joins-mnm/articleshow/79521251.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
