December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Proposed restrictions on year end celebrations in Bengaluru will kill the hospitality sector, say stakeholders||Bengaluru’s event and nightlife industries, which have been severely battered by the pandemic, had just begun to take baby steps in the new normal, when a new advisory to contain a second wave of Covid-19 was announced by the department of health and family welfare, which stakeholders say is a resounding death knell for them. The proposed advisory, which has also been endorsed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and seeks "to ban New Year public celebrations from December 26 to January 1 and impose night curfew (8 pm to 5 am) during this period", has the nightlife industry up in arms. The timing of the advisory could not have been worse, they say, given that many were hoping of a revival of sorts in December, after months of being shut down. Manu Chandra, Bengaluru Chapter Head, National Restaurant Association of India, says, "If this is indeed true, banning isn’t the solution to prevention. A structured set of rules are. These are celebrations for people at large, and can certainly be held responsibly in establishments. Mass crowds on streets are an issue, then why must an already battered industry, still struggling to recover, face yet another body blow?" Restaurateur Chethan Hegde echoes Manu's thoughts and says, "The food and beverage industry is already down on its knees. It has taken a lot of time for us to convince our patrons to understand that we are functioning with precautions. The numbers are slowly trickling in and December is when we expected most business. By imposing the night curfew for a week, are restaurants are being shut down, as our patrons usually come by after 8 pm. We have reopened our businesses with great difficulty, given that we even had to convince our staff members to come back and ensure their safety as well. We're following all protocols in our restaurants. If the curfew does get implemented, it would be the final nail in the coffin." Restaurateur and DJ Rohit Barker says having a night curfew or restrictions on New Year's Eve parties has two sides, given safety is a priority now. "If the authorities can find a way to strike a balance between a complete ban or more relaxations, then that might be a path to explore. Find a way to keep all precautions in place, make sure that there aren't any large gatherings and change end of year celebrations to small, intimate and socially-responsible events," he says. Event organiser and consultant Rafiushan Pasha opines, "While things are slowly going back to normal, New Year's is a time when people go all over the place with excitement. So, if something like this does happen, I'm sure there will be a positive outcome and we will follow that. However, if certain parties, say within five-star properties, with a smaller crowd are allowed and a partial night curfew is enforced, it would be wiser because protocols will be followed." But what about those who were looking forward to the New Year's Eve revelry to earn and try to get back on their feet? "If there is a curfew, it will impact artistes, as well as the industry as a whole. It's an extremely tough time for hospitality and artistes at the moment," says Rohit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/proposed-restrictions-on-year-end-celebrations-in-bengaluru-will-kill-the-hospitality-sector-say-stakeholders/articleshow/79533513.cms||Sunayana Suresh
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru cops: Former minister Varthur Prakash may have known his kidnappers||BENGALURU/KOLAR: Former minister Varthur Prakash who lodged a complaint on Tuesday that he had been kidnapped last week and was freed only after he paid ransom of Rs 48 lakh knew his abductors, police said. “We are 100% sure that Prakash knew who had kidnapped him and why. But he continues to maintain he was abducted by strangers. We are confident our investigation will reveal the truth even if he remains tightlipped,” an officer said. Bengaluru police on Wednesday transferred the kidnap case to Kolar Rural police under whose jurisdiction he had been abducted. D Devaraja, DCP (Whitefield), told TOI that Bellandur police registered a case after Prakash’s abandoned SUV was found on Tuesday. Prakash said he and his driver were abducted by an armed gang from near his farmhouse at Begli Hosahalli, off Kolar, on November 25 night. “We registered a case of kidnap and transferred it to Kolar police for further action,” Devaraja said. “Kolar SP Karthik Reddy is supervising the investigation,” Seemanth Kumar Singh, IGP (central), said. While Prakash’s driver Suneel escaped from the abductors’ clutches on November 27 night, the former minister was released in the wee hours of November 28. Both said they had been assaulted by the abductors and got themselves treated for injuries at separate hospitals. They did not reveal to their doctors how they got injured. “We will question the doctors for not filing medico-legal reports,” an officer said. Probe by Bellandur police revealed the abductors took Prakash near Antaragange, Tambihalli village, and later to Narasapura and Murugamalla off Hoskote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-ex-min-may-have-known-his-kidnappers/articleshow/79536270.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Three arrested in MBBS seats scam||BENGALURU: Malleswaram police on Wednesday arrested three persons, including two girls, on charges of impersonation and will question them during their three-day custody. The accused — Madhu, Pooja and Chaitra — had appeared before the Karnataka Examinations Authority during the document-verification process on Tuesday. They were impersonating three candidates who had been allotted seats in a city medical college, police said. KEA officials caught them after noticing the alleged fake documents and handed them over to Malleswaram police. Cops took up a criminal case against the trio and arrested them after a preliminary probe revealed their fraud.  Abhay Gautam, Paragi and Maheen Nawaz — had been allotted MBBS seats in BGS Global Institute of Medical Sciences. Madhu appeared for Gautam, Pooja for Paragi and Chaitra for Nawaz. KEA officials found the photographs in the marks cards were not matching with that of the candidates standing in front of them.  KEA will issue notices to the original candidates regarding the fraud. “They are from outside Karnataka; two are from Delhi. We are also intimating the medical counselling committee,” said Venkat Raja, executive director, KEA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-arrested-in-mbbs-seats-scam/articleshow/79536272.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Garbage mounds may hasten Gangashetty Lake’s slow death||BENGALURU: Heaps of unsegregated waste are piling up on the banks of Gangashetty Lake near KR Puram. Some mounds are seven feet tall, emanating stench and adding to the woes of the water body, which is already choking due to sewage inflow and rampant encroachment. Volunteers working for betterment of the lake since 2011 say its deteriorating state has left them despairing over whether it’s headed towards a slow death. Balaji Raghotham, a volunteer, said, “I have seen this lake since I was a boy. There was a time when its water was used for irrigation and drinking. Now, no one even enters the premises due to the stench. I have seen the lake go from bad to worse. How long will it take for the authorities to react?” Whenever it rains, garbage flows into the lake and collects on the lake bed polluting it further. It includes plastic bottles, glass pieces, construction debris and even offal. A senior BBMP official said, “A tender will soon be called for development of this lake. The DPR has been approved. We are hoping that as and when the work progresses, the garbage and sewage problems will reduce.” Every time volunteers or residents have approached the authorities, they have been told the Palike is searching for another place to dump the garbage. Open defecation is another menace dogging the lake, complain locals. “People smoke there and litter the area with matches and cigarette butts, sparking fires. In addition to so many problems, the area is filled with smoke in the wee hours of the day,” Balaji added. Devraju R, who lives 150 metres away from the garbage dumping site, said, “We have seen BBMP compactors throw waste here. In the past 20 years that I’ve lived here, I have see the lake shrink due to encroachment. The stench is unbearable at times and several families are affected.” “BBMP should have planned this (development) much before. The lake has shrunk so much already, we can’t let it shrink any more,” Balaji added. Considering there are no drains, the leachate from wet waste is seeping into the soil and polluting the lake water. ‘Search for another spot on’“The area outside the lake is currently being used for transporting trash from auto-tippers to compactors. Search for an alternative place is going on. Construction of a fence, which will help reduce flow of garbage into the lake, has begun,” said D Randeep, special commissioner, solid waste management, BBMP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/garbage-mounds-may-hastengangashetty-lakes-slow-death/articleshow/79536281.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Jail officials seek legal opinion on VK Sasikala’s plea||BENGALURU: Former AIADMK general secretary VK Sasikala, convicted and incarcerated in a disproportionate assets case in Central Prison here, has sought remission and early release. Jail officials said they are yet to take a call on her application. Sasikala, lodged in prison here since February 2017 and slated to be released on January 27, 2021, after completion of four years of imprisonment, recently applied for remission, jail sources confirmed. Prison authorities forwarded her application to higher officials, including director general of police (prisons) Alok Mohan and deputy inspector general of police (prisons) Anand Reddy. As per norms, three days of remission for good conduct is available for every month in jail and so far, she has completed 43 months, making her eligible for a reduction of 135 days from her jail term. However, prison officials say they never considered convicts imprisoned in graft cases for remission in the recent past. “Remission is granted generally to those serving life terms or prisoners who complete 14 years in prison. The present set of officials has never considered any convicts, other than life convicts, either for premature release or for remission. However, we have sought legal opinion and have forwarded Sasikala’s file to seniors,” an official said. After the Supreme Court restored the trial court judgment against Sasikala, her nephew VN Sudhakaran and relative J Ilavarasi in the disproportionate assets case, she surrendered before the court in Karnataka on February 15, 2017. She has been lodged in Bengaluru Central Jail since then. They were awarded four years’ simple imprisonment and slapped with a fine of Rs 10 crore each. Sasikala paid the fine recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/jail-officials-seek-legalopinion-on-sasikalas-plea/articleshow/79536293.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Conmen pose as BL Santosh on Facebook, swindle Rs 15,000||BENGALURU: Fraudsters allegedly impersonating BJP national general secretary BL Santosh on social media sent requests for money citing an emergency to his friends and convinced an acquaintance to transfer Rs 15,000 to their bank account. In a complaint filed with Central CEN police on Monday, Vinod Krishnamurthy, convener of BJP’s social media cell in Karnataka, said Santosh’s Facebook account was impersonated, and friend requests were sent to multiple people. Responding to pleas for financial help sent from the fake account, his Facebook friend Ajith Shetty Kiradi transferred Rs 15,000 to the account whose details were provided in the request. Police said this is probably the first time a veteran politician has been targeted by cybercriminals. There have been instances of social media accounts of senior cops and government officials being impersonated and monetary requests sent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/conmen-pose-as-bl-santosh-on-fb-swindle-15k/articleshow/79536318.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru boat tragedy: Bodies of three more fishermen recovered||MANGALURU: A search team comprising coastal security police and local fishermen recovered bodies of three missing fishermen on Wednesday. With this, out of the six missing fishermen, the bodies of five have been retrieved so far, police said. On Tuesday, six fishermen were feared missing and 19 were rescued after deep-sea fishing boat ‘Shreeraksha’ capsized, as it was overloaded with fish and due to the turbulent sea, about 9 nautical miles off the Mangaluru coast. Search for the sixth missing fisherman, Mohammed Ansar, is expected to resume on Thursday. The bodies of fishermen Chinthan, 21, Mohammed Hassainar, 28, and Ziaullah,36, were recovered. They were found a few metres away from the accident spot. On Tuesday, the bodies of Preetham, 28, and Panduranga Suvarna, 58, residents of Bokkapatna, were retrieved. Coastal police said search continued near the accident spot. Rescue teams have removed the fishing nets from the capsized boat, which is about eight nautical miles away from the estuary mouth, off the Mangaluru coast. District minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, who met the victims’ families on Wednesday, said ex gratia will be provided to them. He added that an investigation will be conducted to ascertain the reason for the accident. Bunder dock closed to mourn the victimsThe ever-bustling fish dock in Bunder mourned the death of the fishermen on Wednesday. The fishermen, as well as fishing boat owners, called an impromptu bandh, and all activities came to a standstill during the day. The fishermen and a large workforce working at the dock said, “None of the ministers visited the spot after the boat capsized. Whenever a business tycoon or any influential person goes missing at sea or in a river, there is a mammoth operation jointly carried out by many departments,” they alleged. They also blamed central agencies for not putting in enough effort in the search operation. Fishermen organised a condolence meeting at the Old Port on Wednesday. BK Imtiyaz, district president, DYFI, and Bunder Sharmika Sangha secretary, said the incident has shocked not only fishermen, but the entire coastal region. He demanded that each victim’s family should be given ex gratia of Rs 25 lakh and a government job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mluru-boat-tragedy-bodies-of-three-more-fishermen-recovered/articleshow/79536321.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Ailing youth ferried through zero traffic from Puttur to Bengaluru||MANGALURU: A 22-year-old patient suffering from pulmonary disease was shifted from Puttur to Bengaluru within four hours and 20 minutes on Wednesday, thanks to zero traffic. The patient from Arehalli in Sakleshpur was shifted from Mahaveer Medical Centre Hospital in Puttur to Vydehi Hospital, Whitefield, in an ambulance of Kerala Muslim Cultural Centre. Driver Mohammed Haneef started the journey from Puttur at 11am. The message of shifting the critically ill patient was shared on social media and public support was sought to make the corridor traffic free. The message went viral and people lined up along the route between Puttur and Bengaluru to ensure zero traffic for the ambulance. The ambulance reached Charmady before 11.45am and crossed Belur in Hassan at 12.40pm to reach Bengaluru via Yeshwantpur, Ramamurthy Nagar, Tin Factory, Mahadevapura and Vydehi Hospital before 3.20pm. Traffic policemen from respective areas made necessary arrangements to ensure zero traffic and for smooth plying of the ambulance along the route. Sources from Mahaveer Medical Centre Hospital said the patient was suffering from congenital bronchiectasis and was treated at several hospitals in Mangaluru. She was under treatment in Mahaveer Medical Centre Hospital for the past three weeks. Since she needed an emergency lung transplant, she was shifted to Bengaluru, sources added. “This is my second mission in Karnataka. On February 7, I saved a 40-day-old baby by shifting the infant from Mangaluru to Bengaluru in 4 hours 20 minutes,” said the proud ambulance driver, Mohammed Haneef.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ailing-youth-ferried-through-zero-traffic-from-puttur-to-bluru/articleshow/79536329.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengalureans shop for woollies amid cold, Covid-19 concerns||BENGALURU: With winter setting in and a second Covid-19 wave expected, Bengalureans are rushing to revamp their wardrobes with thermals, cardigans, and light winter wear. Many like Bhanumathi S, a homemaker, who is updating her winter wardrobe after three years, are scared the cold will expose them to the novel coronavirus. “I had cardigans and sweaters that I’ve been using for years,” said Bhanumathi, a resident of Vijayanagar. “This year, I did not want to take a chance. I bought thermal wear for the first time in my life. Apart from kashaya and building immunity, staying warm is my priority.” For young professionals like Sai Yuvaraj, working from home has changed the way he shops, and it is no different with winter wear. “I used to buy gloves and jackets as I would ride almost 15-20 km every day. But now, I will pick some turtlenecks and sweaters. Some trendy winter wear will also look good on Zoom calls,” he said. Karan Suri, a student, said that because of the fear of Covid and with winter this year slated to be colder than usual, people will purchase more. Shaista K, another student says she is making the most of the end-of-the-season sales to stock up on trendy winter wear. “I have been purchasing hoodies, jackets and trendy socks from online stores,” she said. However, there are others who feel winter wear for indoors is not a necessity. Prashant Kotumbeerkar, a techie who works in Bengaluru but is currently in Hubbali, said: “It is pretty warm here and we don’t even go out. Instead of winter wear, I splurged on other clothes after the lockdown was lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blureans-shop-for-woollies-amid-cold-covid-concerns/articleshow/79536350.cms||Farheen Hussain
December 3, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: His presence of mind saved lives||MANGALURU: It was Nizam Bengre, 24, whose presence of mind saved the lives of 18 on board ‘Shreeraksha’. A total 19 fishermen saved themselves with the help of a dinghy.“On Monday, around 7pm, the boat started tilting and its navigator was the first to jump into the sea. I went around alerting everyone to jump into thewater. I was the last to take the plunge. Unfortunately, the six fishermen who drowned could not hear me. The boat was about eight nautical miles away from the estuary mouth then,” he recalls.However, trouble did not end soon after all 19 jumped in. They had to separate the dinghy from the sinking deep-sea fishing boat. “Four of us tried by cutting the ropes tied to the sinking boat. Later, we all got into the dinghy. When a headcount was done, we realised six of our colleagues were missing. Many fishermen jumped into the sea, with the hope of finding them. We wouldn’t have been alive if the dinghy sank along with the boat,” said Nizam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/his-presence-of-mind-saved-lives/articleshow/79536362.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: R Roshan Baig sent back to prison||BENGALURU: A special CBI court on Wednesday sent former Congress minister R Roshan Baig to judicial custody. The IMA scam accused, who was in CBI custody for one day, was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. CBI officials also filed objections to Baig’s bail petition. Baig has been accused of taking Rs 400 crore from IMA Group’s founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan. The scam is worth Rs 4,000 crore, CBI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/roshan-baig-sent-back-to-prison/articleshow/79536389.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||No plan to make voting compulsory, says Karnataka govt||BENGALURU: The government is not planning to make voting mandatory in the gram panchayat polls slated to be conducted in two phases — on December 22 and 27. “It’s highly impractical. We will not implement it. We don’t even know such a law exists,” said rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa. In 2015, when the Congress was in power, a legislation was passed to make voting compulsory in panchayat elections. However, there is no penal provision against violators. It also provides for the electorate to select None of The Above option while exercising their franchise. After the law came into force, then chief minister Siddaramaiah went all the way to his native village Siddaramana Hundi, under Yedahalli GP in Mysuru, to cast his vote. While pushing this bill, former RDPR minister HK Patil had said his government wanted to make voting compulsory in panchayat elections to ensure greater participation of people. “As many as 22 countries have made voting compulsory and only 10 of them impose penalty on voters who don’t turn up at polling booths. We have not included any penalty as we want to prompt the electorate to come and vote,” Patil had insisted. In 2014, Gujarat became the first state to make voting compulsory in local polls and soon Rajasthan followed suit. The law, which was passed in 2009 and again in 2011 under then chief minister Narendra Modi’s watch, was approved in November 2014. The Gujarat law empowers the state election commission to declare an absent voter a “defaulter”, except in case of illness or if s/he is out of station. It says an absentee voter will face penal action, without specifying the nature of punishment. However, RDPR officials said they have no plan to implement it as it’s not practical amid the pandemic. “Compulsory voting may also be in violation of the fundamental rights of liberty and expression that are guaranteed to citizens in a democratic state. In this context, it has been stated that every individual should be able to choose whether he or she wants to vote,” said a senior BJP functionary, defending the government’s decision. Interestingly, some senior ministers, officials from RDPR and state election commission pleaded ignorance of such a law in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-plan-to-make-voting-compulsory-says-govt/articleshow/79536532.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Clamour against CP Yogeshwar’s induction into cabinet grows||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s categorical assurance to induct BJP MLC CP Yogeshwar into his cabinet has not gone down well with senior BJP MLAs, who have decided to seek the high command’s intervention. According to sources, some senior MLAs have already apprised BJP national president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah about their resentment over MLCs being made ministers and MLAs who have won assembly elections 3-4 times being neglected. They have asked the high command to impress upon the CM to drop his decision to induct Yogeshwar. The MLAs, who are expected to hold a meeting on Monday or Tuesday, might even decide on visiting Delhi after eliciting individual opinion. Sources said quite a few MLAs are are not happy with the CM’s style of functioning and his unilateral decisions regarding recent appointments to boards and corporations. Honnali MLA MP Renukacharya, who has been vocal about his opposition to Yogeshwar’s induction, met state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday and reiterated his demand to make senior MLAs ministers. “The CM’s statement has come as a shock to me. I have explained everything to the party president and am confident he will take the necessary action,” he said. When asked if he opposed Yogeshwar’s induction, an angry Renukacharya retorted: “Why are you asking me about him again and again? Is he Modi or Amit Shah?” MLC AH Vishwanath also continued his tirade against Yogeshwar and sought to know what was the urgency for Yediyurappa to make him minister despite opposition from BJP MLAs. “What is his (Yogeshwar’s) contribution in formation of the BJP government? Nothing,” Vishwanath said. Meanwhile, BJP chief whip in the assembly and Karkala MLA Sunil Kumar wrote a letter to Kateel to convene a meeting of MLAs at the earliest to discuss recent developments in the party as well as the government. “There should be a discussion about recent statements of a few MLAs about leadership change, cabinet expansion, outsider-insider debate and recent appointments to boards and corporations. Some people are violating the party’s discipline repeatedly. The recent developments have upset loyal party workers who are committed to its ideology. In this background, it is necessary to convene a meeting of MLAs where all these issues can be discussed thoroughly,” Kumar said in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/clamour-against-yogeshwars-induction-into-cabinet-grows/articleshow/79536536.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Mysuru||2023 election candidates will be announced next year: HD Kumaraswamy||MYSURU: The JD (S), which is facing an existential crisis, on Wednesday said it will announce candidates for 150 seats for the 2023-scheduled assembly elections in 2021. “Party candidates for constituencies where there is no dispute would be announced next year so that they get adequate time to prepare,” said former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy. His statement comes at a time when several JD(S) sitting and former MPAs are mulling jumping ship ahead of the 2023 polls. Senior party MLA GT Devegowda has already indicated that he would quit the party closer to the general elections. On preparations for the gram panchayat elections, Kumaraswamy stated the party will hold a meeting on Friday to discuss the strategy. “BJP’s strategy will not work in the GP elections,” he said, making it clear that GT Devegowda is still with the party and they will face the polls under his leadership in Chamundeshwari. Kumaraswamy declined to comment on the love-jihad controversy and his bete noire Siddaramaiah’s “crossbreed” statement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/2023-election-candidates-will-be-announced-next-year-hdk/articleshow/79536549.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC seeks data on distribution of talking laptops to students||BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday directed the government to place on record its policy as well as data on free distribution of talking laptops to visually impaired students in the state. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said the data should be of 2018-19 and 2019-2020, as sought in the petition, and also of previous years. Advocate S Umapathi, the petitioner, claimed distribution of talking laptops was smooth till 2017, but thereafter, allocation was drastically reduced. According to him, the grant was Rs 4 crore in 2014-15, Rs 3.5 crore in 2015-16 and finally Rs 2.4 crore in 2019-20. Ensure 3 litres of kerosene to the poor, govt told The high court directed the government to ensure supply of three litres of kerosene every month to BPL cardholders without LPG connection, as per a July 27, 2016 government order. In his PIL, advocate S Chandrashekaraiah had sought for a direction to the central government for release/ allocation of 39,000 kilolitres of kerosene per quarter to Karnataka, and to ensure distribution to BPL cardholders without LPG connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-seeks-data-on-distribution-of-talking-laptops-to-students/articleshow/79536552.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP misses pothole deadline again, blames weather for delay||BENGALURU: A 30-day deadline set by BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad for officials to fill up all potholes on city roads ended on November 30, but craters continue to pockmark most streets. In several parts of the city, the Palike has done a shoddy job of covering potholes by laying patches of asphalt, which has only turned rides bumpier and more uncomfortable. This reporter drove from Mysuru Road to Old Madras Road, passing through the CBD areas, on Wednesday and counted at least 200 potholes and countless bad reaches. There are some parts of the stretch which have patches of asphalting done, but none is neatly laid out. Prasad had in late October announced that major roads across the city will be pothole-free by November 15 and ward roads would be fixed by November 20. Following the ultimatum, the civic administration set up 31 teams to execute the work. “A well-equipped hot-mix plant was established to fill potholes under BBMP limits. These hot-mix plants could easily produce 50-60 truckloads in 10 hours, which were sufficient to fill potholes,” said an official. However, none of the measures was able help the BBMP fill all the potholes on time. BBMP’s chief engineer Prahallad BS conceded that only 380 of the 470 ward and major roads in the city are pothole-free. “But potholes are not forming again on the roads that have been fixed. This is something that people need to understand,” Prahallad told TOI.  Manjunatha Prasad, however, said: “Bengaluru’s weather does not let us work. We are working on a war-footing to ensure the city is pothole-free.” Bengalureans, however, have been fuming over another unmet deadline. “The Kanakapura Road stretch from Sarakki signal to Yelachenahalli Metro station has countless small potholes,” said Abdul Aleem, president of Changemakers of Kanakapura Road. Abdul demanded that BBMP officials visit the road once and understand the severity of the problem. Mallanagouda, a resident of BTM Layout, said numerous craters, especially on Bannerghatta Road, make commuting a nightmare. “Potholes of all sizes and shapes are found along that stretch,” he pointed out. Rishi Taran, a frequent visitor to Lavelle Roaḍ, said for a year now, he has been noticing potholes there and the issue has never been addressed. “This is one of the most posh localities of Bengaluru and such is the state of the road here. There is no doubt the situation is worse in other areas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-misses-pothole-deadline-again-blames-weather-for-delay/articleshow/79536554.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Govt portal hacker in CCB custody now||BENGALURU: A Jayanagar resident arrested in connection with diverting Rs 11 crore from the government’s e-procurement portal was on Wednesday remanded in Central Crime Branch custody for 13 days. He was nabbed on charges of hacking into multiple websites, apps and gaming portals. G Srikrishna alias Sriki, is prime accused in the case of siphoning off the money in August 2019. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said: “During probe, it was found that he had hacked into many websites, apps and gaming portals. A separate case has been registered in Cottonpet police station for the hacking. Srikrishna will be in police custody for 13 days.” Srikrishna, along with six associates, was first arrested in a drug-peddling case. On November 4, M Sujay of Sadashivanagar was nabbed and 500 grams of hydro ganja were recovered, couriered to him from the Netherlands. Further probe led to the arrest of Hemanth Kumar, Suneesh Heggade, Praseed Shetty, Hemanth Muddappa and Darshan Lamani. Srikrishna graduated in computer science from a college in Amsterdam and is an expert in handling computers. Police said he helped the other accused purchase ganja through the dark web and made payments via bitcoins. Srikrishna was also among the accused booked for allegedly attacking a businessman’s son inside a pub in UB City in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-portal-hacker-in-ccb-custody-now/articleshow/79536561.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Rs 620-crore project to raise CCTV cover by 10 times in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Bengaluru police, whose attempts to kick off the safe city project had failed to materialise twice since 2019, are making another attempt that will see at least 7,500 CCTV cameras with different functions being installed. At present, the city has 742 functional cameras which will be integrated with the proposed solution. The Rs 620-crore project envisages implementation of an integrated and responsive video-based proactive surveillance system. It will involve deployment of video and communication analytics software for identifying and tracking persons and vehicles involved in harassment of women in public places. “This includes setting up of a network of IP-based surveillance cameras, local viewing stations (in each police station), zonal viewing stations at DCP offices and a master control station. The video feeds from cameras will be monitored and analysed at the command & control centre (C4i),” police said. Hemant M Nimbalkar, additional commissioner (admin) and project head, said: “The first tender in 2019 did not elicit responses from companies that met our standards. The second one issued earlier this year had to be called off after a government order prohibiting use of Chinese systems was issued. We’ve issued a new request for proposal (RFP) .” The department terms this a major step towards creating a mechanism for women’s safety with high-resolution CCTV cameras connected to police posts across the city and integrated with the Central Command Centre. This apart, special cameras equipped with artificial intelligence-enabled systems that can recognise face will be installed at select locations. Quick-response vehicles will be stationed near public places frequented by women. “The aim is to provide police with adequate command and control capabilities both from a fixed location and mobile units to address emergencies promptly. The cameras will help in identifying abnormal activities by transmitting real-time video feeds from locations,” the RFP reads. Mobile video surveillance equipment in the form of mobile command and control vans will also provide video feeds to the centre. The captured data will then be mapped and compared with a database containing details of suspicious vehicles/criminals. Also, patrolling vehicles (both 2-wheelers and 4-wheelers) will be equipped with mobile data terminals (MDTs) to receive alerts from the centre. MDTs will also be used by patrol vehicles to capture photos of suspected persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/620-cr-project-to-raise-cctv-cover-by-10-times/articleshow/79536566.cms||Santosh kumar.B
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man tries to sell fake gold beads; held||BENGALURU: A condiment shopowner caught a 38-year-old man trying to sell fake gold beads weighing 2kg for Rs 3 lakh. Shankar of Hosur, Tamil Nadu, has been sent to judicial custody. Suresh Kumar Shetty of Banashankari told police Shankar had been visiting his shop for two months. Recently, he told Shetty he’d found a bag of gold beads on the road that was dug up in Hosur a few days ago. “Shankar said he would sell them to me for Rs 3 lakh. He brought three beads as samples on Sunday and I found they were genuine. But on Monday when he brought all the beads, I realised they were not made of gold,” Shetty told police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-tries-to-sell-fake-gold-beads-held/articleshow/79536567.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two youths held, 1,000 LSD strips seized||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch police arrested two drug peddlers and seized 1,000 LSD strips worth Rs 50 lakh from them. Darshan, 26, and Rahul, 24, ordered the strips through the dark web and got the consignment couriered from Poland. Police said each strip costing Rs 4,000 was being sold for Rs 6,000 in Bengaluru. “We suspect they were supplying the drugs to high-end customers. The accused were also arrested in 2018 in a drug-peddling case,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-youths-held-1k-lsd-strips-seized/articleshow/79536569.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Activists: Restart milk scheme in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A group of social activists has written to the chief minister to reinstate the Ksheera Bhagya scheme under which government and aided school kids were being provided milk and milk powder. The scheme, started in 2013-14, was discontinued after schools shut in March owing to the pandemic. “For several children studying in government schools, the scheme is the only source of milk protein and many other vitamins,” said a memorandum signed by 77 human rights activists, doctors, researchers and NGOs. The finance department had said the scheme is not being implemented since sufficient rations are being provided to families through the public distribution system and Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. However, activists said the government overlooks the fact that milk is not being provided under either of these schemes. While the two schemes can be accessed by only those having BPL cards, Ksheera Bhagya covers kids of several families who do not have the cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/activists-restart-milk-scheme/articleshow/79536572.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Rising fuel prices hurt transporters||Bengaluru: Already hit by the pandemic, bus and truck operators and cab drivers are struggling to make ends meet with fuel prices going north since November 20. State-run bus corporations, including KSRTC and BMTC, have already witnessed a reduction in passenger revenue due to Covid-19. Truck associations warn further increase in fuel rates would only escalate the cost of essentials. In Bengaluru, petrol was priced at over Rs 85 per litre and diesel at around Rs 77 per litre on Wednesday. Ola and Uber cab drivers seem to be the worst affected. Tanveer Pasha, a cab union leader, said: “There are few takers for taxis because of Covid. In such a scenario, the government is punishing us by increasing diesel prices. They have gone up by Rs 25 in the past three years but our earnings have dipped.” Federation of Karnataka Lorry Owners Association president B Channa Reddy said: “Crude oil prices are falling but the government is imposing tax of around Rs 50 for every litre of diesel or petrol. The increasing fuel prices will make essential commodities costlier and affect the common man.” KT Rajashekar, managing director of SRS Travels, said: “An increase of Re 1 in diesel price will make a big difference and the impact on us is huge. The average mileage of high-end buses is about 2.5 kmpl. In addition to this, taxation rate is high in India.” While BMTC’s ridership has reduced from 36 lakh to 19 lakh, KSRTC’s is down to 16 lakh from 30 lakh. “Increasing fuel prices are causing a huge financial burden, and converting diesel buses into electric ones is the way forward,” said a BMTC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rising-fuel-prices-hurt-transporters/articleshow/79536574.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two govt officials caught taking Rs 1.8 lakh bribe||BENGALURU: Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths arrested two persons, including an assistant labour commissioner, while they were accepting a bribe of Rs 1.8 lakh from the deputy general manager of a private firm on Wednesday. Santosh Ipparagi is the arrested officer, while his associate is Shivakumar, a retired labour inspector. They were caught accepting the money at the labour department office on Bannerghatta Road. Officials said the deputy general manager with the private company based in Malur, Kolar district, had applied for clearances from the labour department in January 2017. The firm’s head office is in Pune. Ipparagi demanded Rs 2 lakh and later agreed to Rs 1.8 lakh. ACB sleuths raided his residence in Vijaynagar and seized Rs 10.5 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-govt-officials-caught-taking-1-8-lakh-bribe/articleshow/79536575.cms||---
December 3, 2020||India||Sushil Modi set to equal record of his arch-rival Lalu Prasad by entering both houses of Parliament, state legislature||PATNA: Bihar’s former deputy CM and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi is all set to break the record of his archrival RJD chief Lalu Prasad by becoming member of both houses of the Parliament and the state legislature. Modi, who on Wednesday filed his nomination papers for by-election to a Rajya Sabha seat from Bihar, is all set to enter the Upper House of the Parliament as the Opposition, in all probability, is not going to put its candidate against the BJP stalwart. If Modi wins the Rajya Sabha by-election, he will become equal with his archrival the RJD boss Lalu Prasad by becoming the members of all four legislative houses—the Lok Sabha, the Rajya Sabha, the state assembly and the state legislative council. Besides Lalu, former union minister Nagmani too has the record of being the member of all four legislative houses in the state and at the centre. Lalu made this record in 2002 when he entered the Rajya Sabha after being the members of other three legislative houses. Lalu first entered the Lok Sabha in 1977, the Bihar assembly in 1980 and the state legislative council in 1990. After Lalu, former Chatra MP Nagmani made a similar record in 2006 when he was elected to the state legislative council. Prior to being elected to the state council, Nagmani had entered the Bihar assembly in 1977 by winning Kurtha seat, the Rajya Sabha in 1994 as Janta Dal member and the Lok Sabha in 1999 by winning Chatra seat (now in Jharkhand) on the RJD symbol. Sushil Modi entered the Bihar assembly in 1990, the Lok Sabha in 2004 after winning Bhagalpur seat and the state legislative council in 2005. “If Modi wins the current Rajya Sabha by-polls, he will equal the record of Lalu Prasad after a gap of 18 years and the record of mine after a gap of 14 years,” former Union minister Nagmani told TOI on Wednesday. Nagmani said, except Lalu and he, no other politician from Bihar could enter all the four legislative houses at the Centre and in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sushil-modi-set-to-equal-record-of-his-arch-rival-lalu-prasad-by-entering-both-houses-of-parliament-state-legislature/articleshow/79536646.cms||Madan Kumar
December 3, 2020||India||Allow smaller parties a say at Covid-19 all-party meet, CPI MP tells PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha MP and Communist Party leader Binoy Viswam has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to allow political parties with fewer than 10 MPs to have a say at the table during the PM’s all-party meeting on Coronavirus, scheduled for December 4. Viswam wrote to the PM following a communication that while leaders of all parliamentary parties are invited to attend the PM’s all-party meeting, only parties with a floor strength of at least 10 MPs will be allotted time to speak. The remaining party leaders can participate, but their comments will not be accommodated. The Communist Party of India has a total strength of 3 MPs in both houses of Parliament, while the CPM has a total of 8 MPs in both houses. While the Left parties’ cumulative strength exceeds 10, individually, no party from the Left Bloc will pass the government-imposed ‘strength test’ to speak at the all-party meeting. Speaking to TOI, Viswam said such a condition being imposed was unprecedented and being imposed for the first time. "Our numbers may be small, but the Left represents the poor, downtrodden and the underprivileged and unprivileged, and I believe that the right to express our views, even for a minute, is the minimum democratic right that should be accorded to us," he said. While pleading for allocation of time to speak, in his letter, Viswam has also demanded on behalf of CPI that the government increase testing in vulnerable populations and reduce costs of tests. He has also reiterated his demand, raised thrice in Parliament, to provide free masks and soaps to the vulnerable population who cannot afford them, extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana until May 2021, and expand the scale and scope of Mnrega to provide employment opportunities to those who have lost their source of livelihood due to the pandemic. Viswam also appealed to the PM to ensure that the price of Covid-19 vaccine is regulated to ensure it remains affordable and accessible to every person in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allow-smaller-parties-a-say-at-covid-19-all-party-meet-cpi-mp-tells-pm-modi/articleshow/79536914.cms||Swati Mathur
December 3, 2020||World||China planned Galwan clashes, says US panel||NEW DELHI: Accusing China of ramping up its coercion campaign against neighbours, a top US commission has said in its report to Congress that the Chinese government had “planned” the Galwan Valley clash in June, potentially including the “possibility for fatalities”. While 20 Indian soldiers died in the LAC clashes on June 15, the Chinese had suffered casualties too. The United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission (USCC), in its report, also said Beijing had ramped up its “multi-year” coercion campaign against its neighbours, provoking military or paramilitary stand-offs with countries from Japan to India and much of Southeast Asia. The US body said there was “some evidence” to suggest that Galwan was planned and executed by the Chinese. ‘China minister called for use of force weeks before Galwan’For instance, several weeks prior to the clash, defence minister Wei made his statement encouraging Beijing to ‘use fighting to promote stability’,” the USCC report said. “Shortly after China’s defence minister urged Beijing to use military force to stabilise its periphery, a violent clash on the China-India border in June led to the first loss of life between the two countries since 1975,” it said. Read AlsoAmid Ladakh standoff, China turns to India for rice after 2 yrsNEW DELHI: China has started importing Indian rice after two years and placed orders for shipment of about 5,000 tonnes of non-basmati rice due to competitive prices offered by India compared to other nations, according to the All India Rice Exporters Association (AIREA). India is the world’s major“Just over two weeks before the incident, an editorial in China’s state-owned tabloid Global Times warned that India would suffer a ‘devastating blow’ to its trade and economic ties with China if it got ‘involved in the US-China rivalry’. Satellite images depicted a large Chinese build-up in the Galwan Valley, including potentially 1,000 PLA soldiers, the week before the skirmish,” it added. The USCC is said to have the legislative mandate to monitor, probe and submit to the US Congress an annual report on the national security implications of the bilateral trade and economic relationship between the US and China, and to provide recommendations for legislative and administrative action. The report said in the aftermath of the clash, Beijing asserted sovereignty over the entire Galwan Valley in what was a new claim and “significant change to the territorial status quo”. Watch Chinese government had 'planned' Galwan Valley clash in June: US panel||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-planned-galwan-clashes-says-us-panel/articleshow/79538167.cms||---
December 3, 2020||India||1st in India: Twitter tags BJP IT cell chief’s tweet as ‘manipulated media’||NEW DELHI: In a first for India, Twitter has tagged a tweet by BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya as “manipulated media”. The tweet, dated November 28, was related to the ongoing farmers’ protests in NCR. Malviya, while “countering” Rahul Gandhi’s tweet about police brutality against farmers, had tweeted a video to allegedly incorrectly claim that farmers were not beaten up, but just “threatened”. According to Twitter, it applies this label to tweets that “result in confusion or misunderstanding or suggests a deliberate intent to deceive people about the nature or origin of the content, for example by falsely claiming that it depicts reality”. Twitter uses its own technology or receives reports through partnerships with third parties to determine and tag “manipulated media”, it said. “The referenced tweet was labeled based on our synthetic and manipulated media policy,” a Twitter spokesperson told TOI on Wednesday. ‘Manipulated media’ was among top 20 India trendsThe company came up with the policy in February 2020 and used it in the run-up to the recent US presidential elections, including on Donald Trump’s tweets. “This is not the first time a politician has used manipulated media to spread misinformation. It’s quite common in Indian because politicians are not held accountable for their online posts. This marks the beginning of a change,” said digital rights activist and Medianama’s Nikhil Pahwa. Till the time of going to press, Malviya hadn’t posted any reaction on his handle. Times ViewGiven the scourge of fake news and doctored images/videos on social media — a lot of which serves to stoke the fires of hatred and intolerance — this initiative of Twitter was overdue. But it needs to be even-handed, and above political and ideological bias in calling out offenders.The microblogging platform says it applies such tags to any photo, audio or video “that have been deceptively altered or fabricated” to “mislead” people. “Manipulated media” was one of the top 20 trends in India on Tuesday morning. Rahul Gandhi, while tweeting a picture of a farmer being beaten up by a man in a paramilitary uniform, had written, “This is an extremely unfortunate photo. Our slogan used to be ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’. But today, the Prime Minister’s arrogance has made jawans stand against farmers.” Malviya had quoted the Congress leader’s tweet and countered with a clip with two parallel videos titled “propaganda and reality”. The 15-second-long video claimed that the security personnel did not even “touch farmer”. “Rahul Gandhi must be the most discredited opposition leader India has seen in a long long time,” Malviya wrote. His post had received over 7,000 retweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1st-in-india-twitter-tags-bjp-it-cell-chiefs-tweet-as-manipulated-media/articleshow/79538441.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 3, 2020||India||Instal CCTVs at all thanas and offices of CBI, NIA, ED, NCB: SC||NEW DELHI: In an order of far-reaching significance, the Supreme Court on Wednesday put the police, CBI, National Investigation Agency, Enforcement Directorate, Narcotics Control Bureau, Department of Revenue Intelligence and Serious Fraud Investigation Office under CCTV surveillance to prevent custodial torture. The court asked the Centre and states as well as UTs to compulsorily install CCTV cameras with night vision facility at all police stations with provision for storing recorded data for at least 12 months, and ideally for 18 months. Asking state governments to allocate adequate funds for installation of CCTVs and fastening the responsibility of keeping them in working condition on station house officers, a bench of Justices R F Nariman, K M Joseph and Aniruddha Bose said: “In order to ensure that no part of a police station is left uncovered, it is imperative to ensure that CCTV cameras are installed at all entry and exit points, the main gate of the police station, all lock-ups, all corridors, lobby/reception area, all verandas/outhouses, inspector’s room, sub-inspector’s room, areas outside the lock-up room, station hall, in front of the police station compound,outside (not inside) washrooms/toilets, duty officer’s room, back part of the police station etc”. Signalling its serious intent, the court laid down in detail the specifics for execution of its order. “CCTV systems must be equipped with night vision and must necessarily consist of audio as well as video footage. In areas in which there is either no electricity and/or internet, it shall be the duty of states/UTs to provide the same as expeditiously as possible using any mode of providing electricity, including solar/wind power. The internet systems that are provided must also be systems which provide clear image resolutions and audio. Most important of all is the storage of CCTV camera footage which can be done in digital video recorders and/or network video recorders,” it said. Importantly, the SC ordered setting up of human rights courts in each district under the Protection of Human Rights Act and said custodial torture complaints can be made to these courts in addition to the state human rights commission. The SC asked the Union government to file an affidavit on the constitution and working of the central oversight body. “The Union of India is also directed to install CCTV cameras and recording equipment in the offices of CBI, NIA, ED, NCB, DRI, SFIO and any other agency which carries out interrogations and has the power of arrest,” it said. Watch SC orders installation of CCTVs at all thanas and offices of central investigating agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/instal-cctvs-at-all-thanas-and-offices-of-cbi-nia-ed-ncb-sc/articleshow/79538494.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 3, 2020||India||31,000 heat-related deaths of 65+ in India in 2018: Report||NEW DELHI: India reported over 31,000 heat-related deaths of people older than 65 years in 2018, the second highest in the world after China (62,000), a new Lancet Countdown report on health and climate change shows. While heat-related mortality among people above 65 has increased by 53.7% globally during the past 20 years, it more than doubled in India. Globally, 2,96,000 such deaths were reported in 2018. Underlining that livelihoods are at risk because heat is increasingly affecting people’s ability to work outdoors in developing regions with significant economic implications, the report shows India accounted for highest productivity loss at 40% of the total 302 billion work hours lost during 2019. "India and Indonesia were among the worst affected countries, seeing losses of potential labour capacity equivalent to 4-6% of their annual gross domestic product," the report says. The report highlights that India’s agriculture sector was among the worst affected. "The pandemic has shown us that when health is threatened on a global scale, our economies and ways of life can come to a standstill," says Dr Ian Hamilton, executive director of Lancet Countdown, said. "The threats to human health are multiplying and intensifying due to climate change and unless we change course, our healthcare systems are at risk of being overwhelmed in the future." In 2019, India saw a record number of above-baseline days of heatwave exposure affecting people aged over 65. Eight of the 10 highest ranking years of heatwave exposure in India have occurred since 2010. "The changing climate has downstream effects, impacting broader environmental systems, which in turn harm human health," says the report. The Lancet Countdown is an international collaboration established to provide an independent, global monitoring system dedicated to tracking the emerging health profile due to the changing climate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/31000-heat-related-deaths-of-65-in-india-in-2018-report/articleshow/79538507.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 3, 2020||India||Sharp dip in malaria cases in India in 2019: WHO||NEW DELHI: India has made considerable progress in reducing its malaria burden and is the only high endemic country to have reported a decline of 17.6% in cases during 2019 as compared to the previous year, says the World Malaria Report 2020 by World Health Organisation. India also witnesses the largest absolute decline in WHO’s South-East Asia region, though it still accounted for 88% of malaria cases and 86% of related death in the region. In India, between 2000 and 2019, malaria cases dropped by over 83% to around 3.38 lakh, whereas deaths declined by 92%. Cases and fatalities have declined a significant 21.3% and 20%, respectively, in 2019 from a year ago. Total number of malaria cases reported till October this year fell 45.02% year-on-year, the government said. States like Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Meghalaya and Madhya Pradesh together accounted for nearly 45.47% of total malaria cases in the country in 2019. They were also responsible for 63.64% malaria deaths. The government intensified malaria elimination efforts with the launch of the National Framework for Malaria Elimination (NFME) in 2016. It was followed by the national strategic plan for malaria elimination (2017-22), launched by the health ministry in July, 2017, which laid down strategies for the next five years. In 2019, global malaria cases stood at 229 million, an estimate that has remained unchanged over the last four years. The deaths from the disease have dropped slightly to around 4.09 lakh in 2019 compared to 4.11 lakh in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharp-dip-in-malaria-cases-in-india-in-2019-who/articleshow/79538630.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: IISc professor and five other achievers bag Infosys Prize||BENGALURU: Six eminent scientists and researchers were presented with the Infosys Prize 2020 by Infosys Science Foundation (ISF) at an event here on Wednesday. The prize, which carries a cash award of $100,000 and a pure gold medal, recognises scientists and researchers from six categories — engineering and computer sciences, humanities, life sciences, mathematical sciences, physical sciences and social sciences. Among the six winners is Arindam Ghosh, professor, department of physics, Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru. ISF said the winners were handpicked from 257 nominations by an accomplished jury comprising renowned scholars and professors from around the world. NR Narayana Murthy, co-founder, Infosys and president, ISF, said to fulfil the dream of an India where the poorest children can have reasonable access to nutrition, education, healthcare and shelter, well thought-out and impactful ideas are needed. “They have to be speedily executed without corruption. Developed countries have succeeded by improving their higher education and research systems. The Infosys Prize contributes to this mission in India by honouring the best scientists and researchers, whose work has the potential to improve our world,” he said. Murthy said the new National Education Policy will help students improve their critical thinking and proactive problem-solving abilities. This, in turn, aims to encourage research within the country. “NEP will help in bringing changes in the curriculum, how classrooms must leverage the power of learning, among others. It may not happen overnight, but I do think it will happen in years to come,” he said. The winners were felicitated by the chief guest, Prof SR Srinivasa Varadhan, Abel Prize winner and professor, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York, US. BOX: ‘Pandemic changing culture of academics’Asked how the pandemic impacted research, Prof Sourav Chatterjee from Stanford University said with important meetings and virtual conferences being recorded, there will be valuable material available from many of the speakers. “It is changing the culture of academics,” he added. Prof Hari Balakrishnan from MIT said he is amazed at how quickly the vaccine is out, but it is no magic. “It is built on decades of foundational research work,” he added. Prof Arindam Ghosh said the pandemic has made everyone realise the importance of being self-reliant. “What we need now is a whole chain from basic research to product development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/iisc-professor-among-6-infosys-prize-winners/articleshow/79538431.cms||---
December 3, 2020||India||Ex-judge CS Karnan held for obscene posts against judges, their families||CHENNAI: A former judge of the Madras and Calcutta high courts, C S Karnan, was arrested by the Chennai police cybercrime wing for allegedly obscene and abusive social media posts agai-nst several judges and their family members. The action comes two days after the Madras high court pulled up the Tamil Nadu DGP and Chennai commissioner of police and issued summons to them for their inaction against the retired judge even though three cases had been registered against him for a ser-ies of offensive posts. On Wednesday, a police team picked up Justice Karnan (Retd) from his residence in Avadi and detained him at the commissioner’s office in Vepery. The police have registered a case against him for offences punishable under IPC Sections 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman, utters any words, makes any sound or gesture) and 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot). Police said Karnan was later produced before a magistrate’s court and remanded in Puzhal prison. In October, the Tiruvanmiyur police had registered a case against five men, without naming Karnan, for trespassing onto the residence of a former judge of the Supreme Court, R Banumathi, in Kalashetra Colony. He then allegedly started uploading video posts heaping abuse on serving as well as former judges of the Supreme Court and Madras high court. In 2017, while he was a sitting Calcutta high court judge, Karnan was found guilty of contempt by the Supreme Court and sentenced to undergo six months’ imprisonment. He retired while in jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-judge-cs-karnan-held-for-obscene-posts-against-judges-their-families/articleshow/79538748.cms||Selvaraj A
December 3, 2020||India||Consenting adults free to live together sans interference: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad HC has observed that adult live-in couples are free to live together without interference from anybody, even their parents. The court directed the police to provide full protection to a couple who had approached it against harassment by the girl’s family members. Allowing a writ petition filed by Farrukhabad’s Kamini Devi and Ajay Kumar, a division bench comprising Justices Anjani Kumar Mishra and Prakash Padia observed, “The SC in a long line of decisions has settled the law that where a boy and girl are majors and they are living with their free will, then nobody — including their parents — has the authority to interfere.” “As the right to live is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, in which it is provided that no person shall be deprived of his right to life and personal liberty,” the court observed. The court said that in case of any disturbance, the petitioners should approach the SSP with a self-attested copy of this order. Petitioner Kamini Devi (24) and Ajay Kumar (28) fell in love around one year ago. They alleged that the family of Kamini Devi were forcibly trying to solemnise her marriage with an older person against her wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/consenting-adults-free-to-live-together-sans-interference-allahabad-hc/articleshow/79538801.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 3, 2020||India||Delay in probe against P Chidambaram, son upsets court||NEW DELHI: Granting time to the CBI and the ED till February 1, a Delhi court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over the delay in completion of investigation in the Aircel-Maxis case against former finance minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti. Special CBI judge Ajay Kumar Kuhar allowed the plea of the two agencies seeking more time to obtain a report on Letters Rogatory form the UK and Singapore in relation to their investigation. “There is no progress on the LR sent to the UK but Singapore has raised queries regarding the nature of assistance sought by the ED. It is in the process of finalising the response to their queries,” additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, who represented both the agencies, submitted. The court, however, stated that it had been “lingering on unnecessarily”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delay-in-probe-against-p-chidambaram-son-upsets-court/articleshow/79538821.cms||---
December 3, 2020||India||Coronavirus: Active cases decline for 5th straight day||NEW DELHI: Active Covid-19 cases in India continued to slide for the fifth straight day and daily cases remained below 40,000 for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday even as the total caseload of the country breached the 95-lakh mark. However, after remaining below 500 for five days, fatalities were 500 or more for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. At 533, daily toll on Wednesday was the second highest since November 20, when 563 casualties were reported. Active cases fell by more than 6,000 on Wednesday, continuing with the trend of discharges outnumbering fresh cases for the past five days. Since November 27, active cases have dipped by nearly 33,000, signalling that the fear of a second wave of the pandemic post Diwali in the wake of festival rush is yet to come true. With 37,716 fresh cases, India’s Covid caseload stands at 95,34,800. As many as 533 fresh deaths have taken the toll to 1,38,635.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-cases-decline-for-5th-straight-day/articleshow/79538840.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Kolkata||A day after ‘patch-up’ meet, TMC rebel Suvendu Adhikari hints he is on his way out||KOLKATA: Rebel Trinamool Congress veteran Suvendu Adhikari, a crucial cog in the wheel for Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee as she bids for a third term in office, on Wednesday told his party that it had become “difficult to work together”. The suggestion that he possibly wants out came barely a day after conciliatory meetings with party seniors like MPs Abhishek Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandyopadhyay, and strategist Prashant Kishor. The trigger for Adhikari seemingly biting the bullet was his displeasure at the party jumping the gun and announcing that he would remain in its fold even before his differences with the leadership were “meaningfully resolved”, sources said. The sudden turn of events on Wednesday has cast a shadow on the possibility of Adhikari being present at Mamata’s December 7 Midnapore meeting, to which he has been invited. “There has been no solution to the points I raised. Things are being imposed on me before a solution is reached,” reads Adhikari’s message to Roy. Adhikari accused TMC of trying to force the issue. “Whatever I said on Tuesday was true. Now, it is his decision if he chooses to change his mind,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-day-after-patch-up-meet-tmc-rebel-hints-he-is-on-his-way-out/articleshow/79538857.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna to begin phase-3 vaccine trial from December 4||PATNA: The third and the final phase of the clinical trial of ‘Covaxin’- Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for protection against the coronavirus, is all set to begin at AIIMS-Patna from Friday (December 4). So far, 300 volunteers have enrolled for the trials. The first lot of vials from Hyderabad would reach AIIMS- P by December 3. Covaxin is one of the first indigenous vaccines developed against Covid-19 and is derived from a strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Delhi and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. AIIMS-P is in the list of 21 medical institutes selected across the country by ICMR where the third phase trial would be conducted. It is the only institute in Bihar which has been selected for the trial. Dr CM Singh, AIIMS-P superintendent and principal investigator of the vaccine trial told this newspaper on Wednesday that the first dose of 0.5 ml intramuscular injection would be given to the registered volunteers after screening. “As part of the trial application, a dose of 0.5 ml would be given on day zero and day 28. After receiving the dose, the volunteers would be in observation for half-an-hour and will be monitored for the next few days over the telephone,” he said. He added, “The trial protocol requires follow-ups on day 28, 42, 104 and 194, which means over six months.” The follow-up sampling is to check the level of immunogenicity (amount of antibody produced in a healthy body to fight against the SARS CoV-2 virus, which causes the disease). Talking about the criteria on which the volunteers will be selected for the trial, Dr Singh said only healthy individuals above 18 years of age will be selected through a screening process and medical examination. “Around 300 people have registered for the clinical trial. However, we aim to administer 1,000 people in the final trial,” he said. AIIMS-P has issued two contact numbers for the registration in the clinical trial- 9471408832 and 9919688888. The institute had successfully conducted the phase-1 and phase-2 of Covaxin clinical trial respectively on 44 and 46 volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-to-begin-phase-3-vaccine-trial-from-dec-4/articleshow/79535049.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 3, 2020||Patna||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to visit Bihar tomorrow||PATNA: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will visit the state on December 4 to attend the organization’s Akhil Bhartiya Karyakari Mandal’s (ABKM) meeting during his three-day tour. It is for the first time that the ABKM’s region-wise meeting is being held in Patna. Important political issues and policy matters would be discussed at the ABKM meeting, to be held at the Keshav Vidya Mandir on the Mircha-Mirchi road in Patna City area on December 5 and 6. “Bhagwat will reach Patna by a service flight by 12 noon on December 4. He will stay at the Keshav Vidya Mandir. The RSS chief will leave Patna for Delhi by a service flight on December 6,” RSS Prant Prachar Pramukh of South Bihar, Rajesh Kumar Pandey told TOI on Wednesday. Prior to participating in the ABKM meeting, Bhagwat would hold a meeting with senior swayamsewaks from Bihar and Jharkhand at the Keshav Vidya Mandir on December 4, sources in the RSS said. “RSS usually holds its ABKM meeting around Deepawali every year. The organization reviews its works done in the previous year and also makes plans for the next year at its ABKM meeting. All prant sanghchalak (state heads), prant karyawah (state general secretary), prant pracharak (state incharge for mass contact) and other volunteers attend the ABKM meeting. This year’s ABKM meeting was scheduled to be held at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh around Deepawali. But it could not be held due to Covid-19 pandemic. In the changed scenario, the RSS decided to hold its ABKM meeting region-wise, instead of national level at one venue,” Pandey said, adding, “It is happening for the first time that the ABKM meeting is being held region-wise.” Pandey also said the RSS has divided the country into 11 regions for smooth conduct of its works. The uttar-purva (northeast) region comprises the political territories of Bihar and Jharkhand states. As per the RSS organizational set-up, the uttar-purva region has three prants — north Bihar, south Bihar and Jharkhand. Similar region-wise meetings were being held in other states also, Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rss-chief-to-visit-state-tomorrow/articleshow/79535112.cms||Madan Kumar
December 3, 2020||Patna||Jilted lover injures boyfriend’s wife at Bihar's Nalanda district||BIHARSHARIF: In a bizarre incident, a girl injured the newlywed wife of her alleged boyfriend in a Nalanda village late on Tuesday night. After hearing the screams of the bride, the relatives of the groom caught and thrashed her. Police later admitted both the women to Biharsharif sadar hospital in critical condition. One Gopal Ram of village Moda Talab under Bhagan Bigha police station area in Nalanda district got married to a Sheikhpura girl on Tuesday. He brought her wife home the same evening. Feeling ditched and humiliated, Gopal’s alleged girlfriend of the same village barged into his house late Tuesday night and partially cut the lock of bride’s hair and then put Fevicol into her eyes when she was fast asleep. On hearing her screams, Gopal’s family members caught the village girl when she was trying to escape. The family members also thrashed her for her misdeeds. Police later admitted both the women to Biharsharif Sadar hospital. DSP (law & order) Sanjay Kumar, who visited the village on Wednesday, said the women were out of danger. No FIR was lodged till the filing of the report. DSP Kumar said a police team was deployed in the village to avoid any untoward incident as both the victim’s in-laws and the accused are residents of the same village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jilted-lover-injures-boyfriends-hubby/articleshow/79534389.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 3, 2020||Business||US court scraps Trump’s tough H-1B visa rules||MUMBAI/ BENGALURU: A US district court has set aside the two recently introduced rules that stifled hiring of H-1B workers, by significantly hiking wages and restricting eligibility norms. The ruling is important from the point of view of Indians already in the US, whose H-1B applications would come up for renewal and also those aspiring to take up employment in the US. These rules were promulgated on a fast-track basis and introduced as interim final rules in early October, without the normal procedure of inviting public comments and vetting the same — a process that can take several months. Judge Jeffrey S White of the US district court (Northern District of California), in his order dated December 1, held that the Trump administration had failed to show there was good cause to dispense with the rational and thoughtful discourse that is provided by the Administrative Procedure Act’s notice and comment requirements. Indians constitute the largest chunk of beneficiaries of H-1B visas. Nearly 2.78 lakh (or 72%) of H-1B visas issued or renewed during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019 were allotted to Indians. The rule issued by the Department of Labor (DOL), which came into effect from October 8, had significantly hiked the wages for H-1B workers and employment-based green card holders by 40% to 100%. The other rule issued by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), which was to come into effect from December 7, had laid out more restrictive eligibility norms for H-1B visa by creating narrow definitions of employer-employee relationship and speciality occupations. This would have led to a spike in the rate of rejection of H-B application. The DHS rule had also curtailed the tenure of the visa to one year, in case of third-party placement of the workers. These agencies had justified expedited implementation of the rules on the grounds that a fast track was necessary to support American workers owing to the adverse economic fall out of the Covid-19 pandemic. Three lawsuits were filed across district courts in the US. This case relates to the lawsuit filed by the Chamber of Commerce of the USA, The Bay Area Council, Stanford University, and several other educational institutions and trade associations. The DHS rule will now not go into effect on December 7. Further, the DOL rule that went into effect October 8 is now no longer in effect. However, the possibility of an appeal cannot be ruled out. Mitch Wexler, California-based partner at Fragomen, a global immigration law firm, told TOI, “Ruling on summary judgment, the district court found that the agencies did not have good cause to bypass notice and comment rule-making procedures in violation of the Administrative Procedures Act. The judgment immediately invalidates the rules. However, the government is expected to appeal the decision, in an expedited manner.” Nasscom, which had submitted comments on behalf of its member companies and had sought for rescinding the interim final rules, has welcomed the court order. In its statement, it said that various studies have shown that the H-1B programme plays an essential role in helping US enterprises secure skill sets that they cannot find locally and that these high-skilled employees provide tremendous benefit to their employers and the US as a whole. Even during the height of the unemployment spike this year created by the Covid-19 pandemic, unemployment in the IT sector remained extremely low going from 3% in January 2020 to 3.5% in September 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-court-scraps-trumps-tough-h-1b-visa-rules/articleshow/79538139.cms||Lubna Kably
December 3, 2020||Kolkata||Two Kolkata lakes all set to go back to old normal||KOLKATA: Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar are going to be open all day, just like in the pre-Covid times. Both water bodies had reopened in a graded manner from July 1. The decision to keep them open throughout the day was taken by state urban development minister Firhad Hakim, during his weekly meeting at Rabindra Sarobar on Tuesday. He reportedly told officials that the two premises were going to kept open for 12 hours from 6am. Antara Acharya, CEO of KMDA, the custodian of the two lakes, told TOI on Wednesday, “We shall shortly issue a formal order to this effect.” However, she didn’t mention the date of opening, nor the timings. In pre-Covid times, Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar would remain open from 5.30am till 7pm. Green activists, even though they welcomed the move, feared that the added hours would increase pollution. Environmentalist S M Ghosh told TOI, “We are happy that people, especially the elderly, will be able to come back to the premises to enjoy afternoon walks. But we hope KMDA can manage to keep the place clean and pollution-free.” Visitors have lately been complaining of increased pollution at the water bodies, especially Rabindra Sarobar. On Tuesday, some dead fish were spotted floating in the water. Plastic bags and bottles were seen strewn around as well. The plastic eventually makes it into the water and poses a threat to aquatic species. It also damages the soil and harms the greenery. A KMDA official said, “We shall have to beef up security once the lakes are kept open throughout the day.” At present, there are 58 security staffers guarding Rabindra Sarobar, including six supervisors. Around 30 people are on duty at Subhas Sarobar. KMDA officials admitted that guarding the premises is a challenge because many of the CCTV cameras have been lying defunct since cyclone Amphan. “The CCTV cameras are supposed to be replaced by Kolkata Police. We have informed Lalbazar about this,” a KMDA official said. Ghosh said, “Air quality index around Rabindra Sarobar improved during the lockdown due to fewer vehicles. The rain had cleansed the air further. But now the ambience is turning toxic again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-city-lakes-all-set-to-go-back-to-old-normal/articleshow/79536190.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Deadline to apply for assistant professor posts extended till December 10||PATNA: The Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) has extended the last date for online submission of applications for appointment of assistant professors in different universities of the state till December 10. Earlier, the last date was December 2. BSUSC chairman Rajvardhan Azad said the decision was taken in view of the difficulties being faced by candidates in making their online submission of applications owing to some technical problems. The last date for receipt of downloaded hard copies of online applications along with photocopies of required documents has been extended to December 30 from December 24. BSUSC has received as many as 53,235 applications till date. The maximum number of applications have been received from Bihar (25,718), followed by Uttar Pradesh (15,200), West Bengal (4,059), Rajasthan (1,130) and Madhya Pradesh (1027). BSUSC had, on September 23, advertised altogether 4,638 posts of assistant professors in 52 subjects in all the 13 conventional universities of the state. The commission is likely to complete the subject-wise screening of applications by the end of this month and start interviewing candidates for recruitment next month, Azad said. There has already been much delay in starting the process of appointment due to the Covid-19 pandemic and elections. Hence, the commission wants to expedite the process of appointment at the earliest. All necessary arrangements for holding interviews have already been made. To start with, interviews would be started in such subjects which have got lesser number of applications, Azad said. When asked about the demand of the scholars of women’s studies course for inclusion of this subject in the process of appointment, the chairman said vacancies had been advertised only in the subjects approved by the state education department. The commission can’t take up any subject on its own, he clarified. Interestingly enough, this course approved by the UGC is running on self-financing basis in Patna and Magadh universities for the last several years, but not a single post of teacher has yet been created by the government till date, added Azad. The subject-wise vacancies as mentioned in the advertisement are sociology (424), English (253), Urdu (100), Persian (14), Maithili (43), Sanskrit (76), Hindi (292), History (316), ancient Indian history and archaeology (55), home science (83), personnel management and industrial relations (18), geography (142), political science (280), economics (268), philosophy (144), public administration (108), rural development (12), physics (300), chemistry (300), botany (332), mathematics (333), zoology (261), music (285), Bangla (23), Arabic (02), environmental science (26), commerce (104), literature (112), vyakaran (31), astrology (36), karmkand (17), dharmshashtra (05), Purana (09), darshan (03), Ambedkar thoughts (09), anthropology (04), geology (05), Gandhian thoughts (05), law (02), Angika (15), statistics (04), education (17), biochemistry (10), electronics (01), Pali (12), Prakrit (22), Nepali (10) and Russian (01). University-wise, Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University has 2 vacancies, Veer Kunwar Singh University 428, Magadh University (381), Purnia University (213), B N Mandal University (377), Patna University (273), Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (276), L N Mithila University (856), K S D Sanskrit University (192), Patliputra University (462), B R A Bihar University (603), Munger University (245) and Jai Prakash University (319). According to BSUSC sources, interview would be conducted by six boards in two shifts each, with 15 candidates in each shift. The commission has six members at present. This will be the first appointment to be made by this new commission after its constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/deadline-to-apply-for-assistant-professor-posts-extended-till-dec-10/articleshow/79535176.cms||B K Mishra
December 3, 2020||Patna||Resume medical classes: Bihar govt||PATNA: The state government on Wednesday asked all the medical colleges in Bihar to initiate the process of starting the classes on their campuses following all Covid-19 norms. The decision was taken following instructions from the Centre in this regard. Medical colleges across the country have been closed since March following the lockdown owing to Covid-19 pandemic. State health department additional secretary Kaushal Kishore has written to the principals of all the medical colleges on Wednesday to follow the guidelines of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The Centre on November 25 had written a letter to all the states, asking them to start the session in medical colleges from December 1 or before. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had also asked the states for arranging non-Covid beds in medical colleges to provide better training and ensure all precautions. Patna Medical College principal Dr Vidya Pati Choudhary said a meeting of all the department heads was held on Wednesday to discus how to follow the Covid-19 norms in the college. Dr Choudhary said they will take the terminals of first year and final year on priority basis. Practical examinations will also begin. “Social distancing has to be maintained. So, each classroom will have 40 students, unlike earlier when there were 80 students in a class. Sanitization of classrooms will be done diligently,” Dr Choudhary said. Madhubani Medical College principal Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said all the students have been told to get ready and report till December 5 with an RT-PCR test report not more than 72 hours old before their arrival. “The students will be allowed to stay in the hostel only after producing a Covid negative report. Rapid antigen test report and TrueNat report will not be accepted. Those students who tested positive are requested to stay at their respective places, until they become negative,” Dr Rajiv added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/resume-medical-classes-state-govt/articleshow/79535070.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 3, 2020||Patna||70 Central University of South Bihar scholars qualify UGC-NET||PATNA: The Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) scholars have done it again. As many as 70 of them have qualified the UGC-NET for lectureship and research fellowship. CUSB public relations officer Md Mudassir Alam told TOI on Wednesday that while 10 scholars qualified for the award of junior research fellowship (JRF), others qualified for lectureship. A maximum of 21 scholars qualified from the school of education, followed by seven from the department of political science. Alam said owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the UGC-NET examination was held in September this year and not in June as scheduled earlier. The results were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Tuesday, he added. CUSB vice-chancellor H C S Rathore and registrar Rajiv Kumar Singh have congratulated the faculty members and students of the university for the grand performance and expressed the hope that the university would continue to strive for academic excellence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/70-cusb-scholars-qualify-ugc-net/articleshow/79535201.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Maintain discipline, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha tells staff||PATNA: State legislative assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday asked the House secretariat staff to maintain discipline, decorum and confidentiality, besides conducting themselves in a dignified manner with the present and former MLAs. Speaking at his first interactive meeting with the assembly secretariat staff after becoming the Speaker, Sinha said the assembly secretariat was different from government departments and, therefore, they had to conduct themselves in a dignified way with the present and former MLAs. Assembly secretariat secretary Raj Kumar Singh and other senior officials participated in the meeting. Sinha said the assembly being the legislative body, the staff should attend to the queries of the MLAs and also dispose of their matters quickly. Noting that a large number of MLAs are the first-timers, the assembly secretariat should function as a ‘legislative school’ for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/maintain-discipline-speaker-tells-staff/articleshow/79535038.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Patna||Edu min for vocational training in all schools||PATNA: State education minister Ashok Choudhary on Wednesday asked the officials to make preparations to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and vocational training programmes from the middle school level. Speaking at a high-level meeting with officials of the department, he said the state already has 6% of its gross domestic product (GDP) earmarked for education department budget, as has been proposed in the NEP. The minister asked the officials to maintain budgetary discipline and chart out plan to ensure quality education. Choudhary expressed satisfaction over the imparting education through Doordarshan and other mobile applications during the Covid-19 pandemic and discussed the alternative crash courses for students in the annual examination 2021. The minister directed the officials concerned to prepare service rules for the better running of Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya, a residential school in Jamui district. A decision was taken to prepare rules in the light of the Bihar Private School Fees Regulation Act 2019 and make arrangements for its publicity. A web portal of the education department would be soon developed in order to bring all the activities of the department to a single platform. Discussions were also held on several measures to improve the education system in the state in order to provide quality education to kids studying in government-run schools. Against the backdrop of the appointment of about 500 lecturers in teacher training colleges, it was also directed to review the old system of in-service training of teachers of elementary schools, which is conducted through the block resource centres. The meeting was attended by principal secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar, special secretary Satish Chandra Jha, director (secondary education) Giriwar Dayal Singh, director primary education Ranjit Kumar Singh, director administration Sushil Kumar, director research and training Dr Vinodanand Jha and others. Dr Jha, through PowerPoint presentation, informed the minister about the activities and works going on under the school education programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/edu-min-for-vocational-training-in-all-schools/articleshow/79535051.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 3, 2020||Vadodara||USFDA nod to Alembic associate for trial of oral nCov drug||Vadodara: Rhizen Pharmaceuticals SA, an associate company of Vadodara-based Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd (APL) has developed a drug for Covid-19 virus that can be taken orally. The firm said that clinical trials of its oral drug for SARS Cov-2 on humans will begin next week. According to the company headquartered in Switzerland, the USFDA has approved its Investigational New Drug (IND) application for studying the oral drug.“We will start clinical trial from next week in the US with a set of 30 to 36 volunteers. The trials will continue for next few months and then we will approach the USFDA again with the results,” said Swaroop Vakkalanka, president and CEO of Rhizen Pharmaceuticals Ltd.The company had been working on making the drug since April this year. After initial lab tests, it approached the USFDA for approval of its IND application. As per the company officials, this drug prevents the feeding mechanism of Covid virus and kills it. “Any virus after entering the human body feeds on the proteins in the cells and multiplies in numbers. Our drug works on the host and cuts off the feeding mechanism of the virus,” Swaroop told TOI.“We tested the drug on human cells in our lab by adding virus to it. When we added the drug, the virus began dying,” he explained. Swaroop added that this drug can also act against other viruses like Zika and dengue as it acts on the host. “If combined with Remdesivir that attacks the virus, this drug can help in faster recovery of Covid patients,” he said.When asked how long will it take for the drug to be available in the open market, Swaroop said it will take a few months more for the trials to be completed. After that government permission is required, he said. “There is an exceptional need for an antiviral oral drugs that are suitable for Covid-19 treatment across all the hospitals and out-patient settings,” he added.Managing director, APL, Pranav Amin told TOI, “It’s an exciting development that our team Rhizen is working on and we are hoping on an oral retroviral, which will add a new dimension to treatment of Covid 19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/usfda-nod-to-alembic-associate-for-trial-of-oral-ncov-drug/articleshow/79535025.cms||Tushar Tere
December 3, 2020||Business||Junk bond issuers face refinance challenges: Moody’s||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Moody’s has said that companies with sub-investment grade ratings, which have international borrowings, could find the going tough despite easy liquidity conditions. This is bad news for corporate issuers of bonds worth $6.3 billion, which carry speculative-grade rating and come up for maturity until 2022. According to the rating agency, 2021 will see three investment-grade rating bond issues and two speculative-grade bonds come up for maturity. The investment-grade issues include the 525-million-euro bond issue of ONGC Videsh, that falls due in July 2021, the $500-million bond issued by Indian Oil Corporation that falls due in August 2021, and UPL’s $500-million bond due in October 2021. The speculative-grade maturity includes Vedanta’s $670-million bond and Bharati Airtel’s $750-million-euro bond. The year 2022 will see two investment-grade bonds — BPCL ($1 billion) and Reliance Industries ($1.5 billion) — come up for maturity. There will also be three speculative-grade redemptions JSW ($500 million), Marble II ($500 million) and Vedanta ($1 billion) coming up for maturity. On Vedanta Resources, Moody’s has said that the company’s B1 rating is under review for downgrade. Although it has diversified operations across multiple commodities that help relative margin stability, it has weak liquidity, large refinancing needs and elevated corporate governance risks which remain key rating sensitivity factors, said Moody’s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/junk-bond-issuers-face-refinance-challenges-moodys/articleshow/79536650.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 3, 2020||Rajkot||Minor raped in Tankara||Rajkot: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped in Savadi village of Tankara taluka in Morbi district on Tuesday. Police said two persons were involved in the crime. Police said while one accused raped the survivor, the other aided him while committing the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/minor-raped-in-tankara/articleshow/79536176.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Nagpur||Now, Motibagh starts LHB coach overhaul||Nagpur: The 141-year-old Motibagh workshop, under South East Central Railway (SECR), Nagpur division, has come of age with the start of maintenance of Linke-Hofmann-Busch (LHB) coaches. The first coach from Raipur whose period overhaul (POH) was done here rolled out on November 28. “Till now, the LHB coaches were maintained at Lilwa in West Bengal. It took at least 60 days for the overhaul there. The SECR used to pay Rs13 lakh per coach to Lilwa workshop for maintenance. Now, plans are afoot to maintain all the LHB coaches with SECR at Motibagh workshop, in a phased manner,” said chief works manager Lalit Kumar Dhurandher. Dhurandher said, “A Rs86 crore upgradation plan of Motibagh is already underway. Once it is in place, we will be maintaining 27 LHB coaches per day. Annually, we will be able to maintain 324 coaches. The arising of coaches with SECR is 100 and we will be able to maintain coaches from other divisions too. The POH of every LHB coach is done after 36-month run.” The Motibagh workshop also maintains conventional ICF coaches, which are on the way out. The POH of the first LHB coach was unveiled by three employees — R Nair, SK Dhingra, and Vinod Meshram — in the presence of principal chief mechanical engineer (PCME) S Sriniwas, senior divisional mechanical engineer (SrDME) Gunjan Wasnik, and other officials. “The Motibagh workshop employees were awarded Rs10,000 for becoming Atmanirbhar and the efficiency they showed to take up the challenge,” said Dhurandher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-motibagh-starts-lhb-coach-overhaul/articleshow/79536188.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 3, 2020||Business||Rane group reinstates pay cuts as biz surges||Chennai: Auto parts supplier to global corporations, Rane group has reinstated the salaries and wage cuts it forced on its employees effective October as businesses start recuperating from losses induced due to Covid lockdown.The group which counts Volkswagen, Toyota among others as clients had cut salaries by 5%-30% to its staff with the senior managerial taking steeper cuts after Covid induced lockdown ravaged businesses. “We have restored the salaries,” said L Ganesh, chairman of the group. “First quarter was a washout with complete lock down. During the second quarter we scrambled and managed to meet customer requirements, while the third quarter is slightly better with staff returning. We still need to see if the demand sustains for one or two more quarters to feel comfortable,” he said. The group which supplies aluminium castings, steering columns and seat belts to global corporations is witnessing a surge in demand for some parts as its customers seek to de risk from China. Several companies which relied on China as the sole supplier for parts and components are redrawing their sourcing strategies. “Take aluminium castings for e.g., we were struggling to fill up our capacity. Many customers who sourced from China are asking us to supply them and we are now booked for the next three years,” he said. “It is a combination of our efforts to go out and seek international business plus de-risking companies.”While the demand growth has been steady in the “unlock” phase, some businesses which supply seat belts, airbags are witnessing high growth. “We have invested in adding capacities for these businesses during the first half of this year. As against the budgeted Rs 100 crore, we had invested Rs 80 crore to create additional capacities,” he said. The group will take a call on its American investment in Rane Light Metal Castings America which continues to remain a challenge even after nearly three years of acquisition. “Covid has significantly impacted the future of this business. We underestimated customer issues there and now we are trying our best to turn it around. We will take a decision on that investment (around $12 million invested so far) sometime next year,” he said. The group which ended March 2020 fiscal with a top line of Rs 4300 crore expects to end the current year with a 15% drop in top line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rane-group-reinstates-pay-cuts-as-biz-surges/articleshow/79536139.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 3, 2020||Varanasi||Virtual exhibitions to showcase artwork of 12 BHU graduates||Varanasi: The Department of Plastic Arts, Faculty of Visual Arts, Banaras Hindu University will organize an online event “The Hinterland Conundrum” from Thursday. According to the BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh, the event will have four online exhibitions of paintings, prints, sculpture, textiles, and ceramics that will showcase the artwork of 12 recently graduated MFA candidates from all the departments at Faculty of Visual Arts. The virtual exhibitions will provide these young artists exposure on various social media platforms. These exhibitions will facilitate the artists, art lovers, art connoisseurs and art students to see, interact and understand the contemporary expressions of the 12 young artists from BHU. This dialogue will lead to a heightened awareness about young contemporary artists of the university. The proposed exhibitions intend to attract the attention of curators, galleries and art critics who promote young and emerging artists. The idea of showcasing the artworks by recent MFA graduates from the Faculty of Visuals Arts came from the various concerns and challenges faced by these young artists. Societal pressure coupled with inexperience of engaging themselves with the rapidly changing Indian art climate and professional practice are immense. Varanasi’s isolation from mainstream contemporary Indian art further proves to be detrimental despite the city's national and global prominence. Although this isolation has enabled the art students at the Faculty of Visuals Arts in creating a unique oeuvre, but has also led to their marginalization. The world-renowned city of Varanasi has unexpectedly become a hinterland. This event is supported by Prof. Hiralal Prajapati, Dean – Faculty of Visual Arts, BHU and Binod Kumar Singh, Head of Department of Plastic Arts. Nitin Dutt of the department of Plastic Arts has been appointed as the coordinator to envision and organize this online event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/virtual-exhibitions-to-showcase-artwork-of-12-bhu-graduates/articleshow/79535415.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Surat||Songadh PI, constable suspended||Surat: Songadh police inspector CK Chaudhary and head constable Nilesh have been suspended following orders from Surat range IG, Rajkumar Pandian. Pandian also ordered an inquiry by Surat (rural) SP Usha Rada to probe negligence of all police officers in Tapi district. “This is a serious matter and an impartial inquiry will be done. Based on the report, action will be taken against negligent cops,” said Pandian. Chaudhary was transferred to local intelligence bureau (LIB) in Vyara four days ago. Nilesh was posted in a local chowky. VK Parmar, a probationary deputy superintendent of police, was in-charge of Songadh police station when the ceremony was held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/songadh-pi-constable-suspended/articleshow/79536115.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Business||‘Relief for CKP Co-operative Bank depositors soon’||Mumbai: In a relief for depositors of the 105-year-old Mumbai-based CKP Co-operative Bank, its liquidator has told Bombay high court they will begin receiving funds soon after the claims list is sanctioned by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). The reply by Jayantkumar Patil, district deputy registrar, was to a petition by four depositors to quash and set aside the order passed by the cooperation minister rejecting the appeal against winding up of the 105-year old bank. On April 28, the RBI cancelled the bank’s licence. On May 4, the Commissioner for Cooperation and Registrar of Cooperative Societies ordered winding up and appointed a liquidator. On July 22, on a petition, the HC directed the minister to decide the appeal. The minister on September 21 upheld the May 4 order. Patil’s reply the Supreme Court has held that section 110A (winding up) of Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act is a provision made in public interest. He said superseding of the Board of Directors upon the order of the RBI is “effective, valid and proper” even though no prior notice is issued to CKP Society. He said RBI had granted opportunity to the CKP Co-op Bank Ltd to improve its financial parameters but as its finances deteriorated it had to step in. The response said that according to DICGC policy, individual depositors’ funds up to Rs 5 lakh are insured. There are over 1.3 lakh depositors that are eligible to be refunded Rs 364 crore. There are only 1,130 depositors whose amount is more than Rs 5 lakh and whose total amount is over Rs 120 crore ``is not insured under DICGC norms and cannot be refunded at this stage. “ Patil also stated that he has further consolidated the list of depositors under a single entity. Patil said liquidation proceedings have started. On October 23 the bank has submitted a claim list along with KYC to DICGC in respect of 47,800 depositors amounting to Rs 298 crore. It is being audited.``As soon as the DICGC sanctions the claims list, actual refund of the depositors will be started,’’ the reply said. On Wednesday a bench headed by Justice Shahrukh Kathawalla adjourned the hearing to December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/relief-for-ckp-co-operative-bank-depositors-soon/articleshow/79538122.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 3, 2020||Business||Jio backs mobile gaming co Krikey||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Jio Platforms, the digital services arm of Reliance Industries (RIL), said on Wednesday that it has backed Krikey, an augmented reality mobile gaming company founded by sisters Jhanvi and Ketaki Shriram. While Jio did not disclose the capital it has invested in Krikey, it said that the investee company has so far raised $22 million (Rs 165 crore). Krikey has also launched Yaatra, an action-adventure game, with Jio. In February, RIL chairman Mukesh Ambani, while talking to Microsoft’s Satya Nadella, had hinted that gaming could be his next bet. “For many of us who don’t know what gaming is, it is very hard to imagine but gaming will be bigger than music, movies and TV shows put together,” Ambani had said. India topped the list of countries in terms of mobile game downloads in the first nine months of this year. Indians installed 7.3 billion games, about 17% of all worldwide downloads, according to app intelligence outfit Sensor Tower. The numbers were aided because of stay-at-home orders to control the spread of coronavirus, among other factors. Jio’s investment in Krikey comes after India banned PUBG Mobile, one of the most popular games, following border tensions with China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jio-backs-mobile-gaming-co-krikey/articleshow/79538237.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 3, 2020||Varanasi||Tourism dept kicks off processfor development of ‘Pawan Path’||Varanasi: A few days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the website of ‘Pawan Path’ (divine route) during his visit to the city on the occasion of Dev Deepawali, the tourism department has kicked off the process to make the physical journey on the divine route hassle-free and smooth. A proposal of Rs. 30 crore has been submitted to the government for the development of ‘Pawan Path’, joint director of UP Tourism, Avinash Chandra Mishra told TOI on Wednesday. “The proposal is expected to get a green signal very soon. Under this project the physical ambience, connectivity of the Pawan Path circuit and other required works would be undertaken,” he said. While the development of Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) is the dream project of the PM, the ‘Pawan Path’ in Varanasi is chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s dream project. According to the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, the CM had announced the development of ‘Pawan Path’ on October 25. The ‘Pawan Path’ is a circuit of prominent temples in Varanasi with Kashi Vishwanath temple as the centre point. It includes over 100 prominent temples of the city which are still unexplored. This circuit is being developed with the aim to showcase such ancient temples and their mythological importance in order to promote the true colour of the sacred city and epitome of rich Indian culture. The initiative has been undertaken by the department of tourism and municipal corporation to promote religious tourism in the city. “With the launching of the website (http://pawanpathvaranasi.in) prepared by the UP Tourism, the revival of the rich cultural heritage of this sacred city has also begun. All the temples and the roads/lanes of the circuit would be developed aesthetically. The digital and physical journeys would go side by side for the devotees to explore the hidden religious treasure,” Mishra said. According to the website, Varanasi which is situated on the banks of holy Ganga has a spiritual legacy which dates back to more than 3000 years. It is considered as an important pilgrimage centre of India. The city, which is an abode of Lord Shiva, provides immense opportunities for teerth yatras like Panchkroshi Yatra and Kashi Vishwanath darshan to seek spiritual peace and get the blessing of the pilgrimage. By going through the website, one can experience a virtual journey of 10 yatras including Kashi Bhairav Yatra, Nav Gauri Yatra, Nav Durga Yatra, Kashi Mein Char Dham Yatra, Dwadash Jyotirlinga Yatra, Dwadash Aditya Yatra, Ashta Vinayak Yatra, Ashta Pradhan Vinayak Yatra, Ekadash Vinayak Yatra, and Kashi Vishnu Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/tourism-dept-kicks-off-processfor-development-of-pawan-path/articleshow/79535393.cms||Binay Singh
December 3, 2020||Patna||No-trust move against B’pur mayor||BHAGALPUR: In a major turn of event, altogether 28 ward councillors moved a no-confidence motion against mayor Seema Saha and deputy mayor Rajesh Verma on Wednesday. A copy of the memorandum for no-confidence motion was also submitted to civic body commissioner J Priyadarshani. The ward councillors also met the divisional commissioner, Vandana Kini, and apprised her about the situation. They demanded fresh election for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor. The councillors also levelled allegations against the mayor for not doing anything for the benefit of common people residing in the city areas under BMC including slackness in sanitation drive in municipal areas. Priyadarshani said that a memorandum to move a no-confidence motion against the mayor signed by 28 ward councillors was handed over to her. “We have sought legal opinion from the BMC’s legal section,” she said. There are 51 ward members/councillors in BMC. Out of 51, 35-40 councillors are aggrieved with the present mayor and deputy mayor and have sought their removal. A section of BMC ward councillors said that since the deputy mayor had unsuccessfully contested assembly election on LJP symbol and was responsible for the defeat of BJP’s candidate by a narrow margin, he is on the firing line of NDA. Similarly, the mayor had hobnobbed with RJD to contest the assembly polls from Sultanganj assembly segment but could not procure a ticket for herself. However, councillor Sanjay Kumar Sinha, who is leading the aggrieved group, said that there is no political implication in their proposed no-confidence motion against the mayor and the deputy mayor. “We are aggrieved with the poor sanitation work in city areas.” “The resentment of ward councillors is due to non-cooperation of BMC officials in matters related to sanitation and other public work. We are facing the ire of the people as well as the ward councillors, which resulted in ‘no- confidence motion’ letter submitted to the BMC commissioner,” alleged the BMC mayor. Verma could not be contacted for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-trust-move-against-bpur-mayor/articleshow/79534363.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 3, 2020||Vadodara||USFDA nod to Alembic associate for trial of oral nCov drug||Vadodara: Rhizen Pharmaceuticals SA, an associate company of Vadodara-based Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd (APL) has developed a drug for Covid-19 virus that can be taken orally. The firm said that clinical trials of its oral drug for SARS Cov-2 on humans will begin next week. According to the company headquartered in Switzerland, the USFDA has approved its Investigational New Drug (IND) application for studying the oral drug.“We will start clinical trial from next week in the US with a set of 30 to 36 volunteers. The trials will continue for next few months and then we will approach the USFDA again with the results,” said Swaroop Vakkalanka, president and CEO of Rhizen Pharmaceuticals Ltd.The company had been working on making the drug since April this year. After initial lab tests, it approached the USFDA for approval of its IND application. As per the company officials, this drug prevents the feeding mechanism of Covid virus and kills it. “Any virus after entering the human body feeds on the proteins in the cells and multiplies in numbers. Our drug works on the host and cuts off the feeding mechanism of the virus,” Swaroop told TOI.“We tested the drug on human cells in our lab by adding virus to it. When we added the drug, the virus began dying,” he explained. Swaroop added that this drug can also act against other viruses like Zika and dengue as it acts on the host. “If combined with Remdesivir that attacks the virus, this drug can help in faster recovery of Covid patients,” he said.When asked how long will it take for the drug to be available in the open market, Swaroop said it will take a few months more for the trials to be completed. After that government permission is required, he said. “There is an exceptional need for an antiviral oral drugs that are suitable for Covid-19 treatment across all the hospitals and out-patient settings,” he added.Managing director, APL, Pranav Amin told TOI, “It’s an exciting development that our team Rhizen is working on and we are hoping on an oral retroviral, which will add a new dimension to treatment of Covid 19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/usfda-nod-to-alembic-associate-for-trial-of-oral-ncov-drug/articleshow/79534894.cms||Tushar Tere
December 3, 2020||Business||Nissan’s biggest bet Magnite, is its most aggressive||Chennai: Nissan India launched its compact SUV Magnite on Wednesday with an aggressive Rs 4.99 lakh ‘introductory’ starting price, substantially lower than its B-segment compact SUV competitors. In contrast the Ford Ecosport has a starting price of over Rs 8 lakh, Maruti Suzuki Brezza Rs 7.3 lakh, Tata Nexon just under Rs 7 lakh, Mahindra XUV300 Rs 7.95 lakh, Kia Sonet Rs 6.7 lakh, Hyundai Venue Rs 6.75 lakh and Toyota Urban Cruiser Rs 8.4 lakh onwards. The Magnite’s opening price is valid till December 31. The price range of the model hits Rs 9.35 lakh for the top end variant, still considerably lower than its competitors. Nissan Motor India MD Rakesh Srivastava however is defensive about calling this Nissan’s ultimate gambit in India. “I wouldn’t call it that,” he told TOI. “But this is a breakthrough price for an aspirational product.” The reason for this aggression is understandable — the B-seg SUV market is a big volume segment but also crowded. “The B-segment SUV market has the best growth rates among all segments in the passenger vehicle market,” said Srivastava. “But it is very competitive and needs a game changer,” he said. The company’s focus is on the domestic market and Nissan is not thinking of exporting Magnite right away. “We will export this also because India today is a hub for exports for Nissan but currently the focus for this product is the domestic market,” said Srivastava. “As and when export opportunities come in we will export because we have enough capacity,” he added. Nissan Renault combined totted up cumulative exports of 1 million units out of the Oragadam plant a week ago. Hormazd Sorabjee, editor of Autocar India, sees this disruptive pricing as an effort to get a chunk of the premium hatchback market as well. “No one saw a sub-Rs 5 lakh price coming. The Magnite is a comeback shot for Nissan - a make or break gambit. The pricing is so aggressive Nissan will get customers from both compact SUV as well as premium hatchback segments (Hyundai i20, Tata Altroz) as well,” he said. Nissan sold just over 1,000 vehicles in November compared to just over 10,000 by alliance partner Renault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nissans-biggest-bet-magnite-is-its-most-aggressive/articleshow/79536156.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Kolkata||Crackdown on bike taxis for registration rule violation||Kolkata: Lalbazar has asked all traffic guards to slap cases against bike taxis that ply without commercial registrations. The cops have been asked to invoke Section 39 of the Motor Vehicles Act (registration violation) that can attract a fine up to Rs 5,000. This is the second instance that such a drive has been undertaken. The latest action follows multiple complaints of harassment and inappropriate behaviour by app-bike drivers. Spotting app-bikes has become difficult for the police at present as there is nothing to indicate that they are not being used for private commute. Bikes that deliver food are also commercial in nature, but they all have private registrations. An officer at Jadavpur traffic guard said cops were noting down the registration numbers of offenders to spot if some had flouted rules repeatedly and could be identified as app bikes. “Unless the passengers reveal the information, it is impossible to catch hold of bike-taxi operators,” said a sergeant from south Kolkata. The police said that with hundreds of bikers now enrolling as bike-taxi operators every quarter, it is imperative to enforce commercial registration of these vehicles to regulate them. Yet, there appears to be a lacunae in the Motor Vehicles Act and rules where bike taxis are not recognized as a separate entity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crackdown-on-bike-taxis-for-registration-rule-violation/articleshow/79536192.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 3, 2020||Allahabad||PDA to pay for damages to houses in demolition drives||Prayagraj: At a time when the Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) has tightened its noose against the mafia and criminals by demolishing their illegal properties, PDA has decided that it will also compensate the neighbours whose houses get inadvertently damaged during the drive carried out by the authority. In one such case at Naini, PDA would be compensating a person whose house was partially damaged when PDA demolished the construction of the former block pramukh (chief), Dilip Mishra. A joint team of PDA, district administration and police demolished a lodge cum complex belonging to the former block pramukh and gangster Dilip Mishra in Naini area of Prayagraj district in October. The structure was razed during action against the jailed gangster’s unauthorised properties in the city. The property was valued to be around Rs 10 crore. The property was razed because it was built against the sanctioned map. “We would be paying compensation to the individual whose house gets inadvertently damaged during our drive against any illegal construction. Compensation will also be provided to the individual in Naini whose house was damaged in the drive against the illegal construction of Dilip Mishra”, said Zonal officer PDA, Sat Shukla. He further added that in case of the house owner of Naini, PDA would be immediately paying the compensation to the house owner and later the district administration would be realising the same from Mishra through recovery certificate (RC) and transfer the money to PDA account. “However, we are waiting for the individual and would like to inform that he can contact us with all the relevant document, regarding his house at Naini, so that we can compensate for the damage caused to his house”, said Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pda-to-pay-for-damages-to-houses-in-demolition-drives/articleshow/79535328.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Allahabad||Luck was on their side, but not on their family’s||Prayagraj: While the rest of their kin weren’t as lucky, two girls of the family had a narrow escape as they had stepped out of the ill-fated SUV just seconds before the truck fell on the four-wheeler. The two girls — Khushi and Shweta — had gotten out of the SUV to make a phone call to inquire about an address. The accident that occurred near Deviganj Crossing under Kaushambi’s Kadadham police station killed eight persons. The two told the police that they were talking to their relatives on their mobile phone to ask about an address as they had forgotten the way back home. They said that they could not say what exactly happened when the sand-laden truck fell on the SUV in which their family members were sitting. They only heard cries of their family members and then sought help. Hearing the sound of the collision, some local residents rushed to the spot and found the two girls weeping. They informed the police to get help to rescue the people trapped under the truck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/luck-was-on-their-side-but-not-on-their-familys/articleshow/79535294.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Business||Lucknow civic body bonds listed on BSE||Mumbai: Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) bonds, through which it had raised Rs 200 crore, were listed on the BSE on Wednesday, making it the country’s ninth civic body to opt for fund-raising through debt papers. Municipal bodies in Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Varanasi, Agra and Prayagraj are also in line to raise funds through this channel, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. LMC’s bond offering, which had opened on November 13, was subscribed 4.5 times with 21 bids. “The corporation received bids for Rs 200 crore within 60 seconds of the issue opening,” LMC said. The money will be used to fund the Atal Mission For Rejuvenation & Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Smart Cities Mission, launched by the central government and implemented in partnership with the state bodies. LMC bonds have AA stable and AA (CE) stable ratings by India Ratings and Brickwork Ratings. These debt papers have a 10-year tenure with a coupon rate of 8.5%. LMC will start paying the principal amount from the fourth year. The UP chief minister said the strong response to the bond offering reflects the investor trust, which the state has earned in last three and a half years. “It will augment our effort to improve infrastructure in urban areas and it shows the improvement in the industrial climate of the state and the trust the investors have reposed in the state machinery,” Adityanath said. According to BSE MD & CEO Ashish Kumar Chauhan, the fact that the order book for the offering was filled more than double in a matter of few minutes, establishes LMC as a credible entity in the Indian bond market. A K Capital Services and HDFC Bank managed the offering. Adityanath also met top India Inc leaders on Wednesday to attract industrial investments into the state. He also told business leaders, led by Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran, the infrastructure UP has planned and the sops it wants to offer to new business projects that would be set up in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lucknow-civic-body-bonds-listed-on-bse/articleshow/79538107.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Business||Burger King IPO subscribed 3x||Mumbai: Boosted by strong demand from retail investors, the Rs 810-crore initial public offering (IPO) for fast food chain Burger King India was subscribed three times on the day it was launched. The book was fully subscribed within minutes of opening on Wednesday, exchange data showed. At close of subscription on the first day, the institutional part was subscribed 20%, the high net worth investors’ part 70%, while the retail portion was subscribed 15.5 times, exchange data showed. The IPO is set to close on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/burger-king-ipo-subscribed-3x/articleshow/79538054.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘70% Covid-19 deaths of patients above 50 years’||LUCKNOW: More than 70% of Covid-19 patients who died in UP were 50 years or more, according to an assessment of state health department. In the last 24 hours, 29 more patients succumbed to the virus, taking the state toll to 7,817. Sharing the figures on Wednesday, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad reiterated the need for prevention. “Analysis of deaths indicates that risk of mortality goes up with age. In fact, it is the highest among the geriatric population. Therefore, prevention is the only bet till the vaccine arrives,” he said. As per data, 45.3% of the elderly patients died while 25% of those who died were between 50 and 60 years. “The number clearly indicates that 50-plus formed the 70% Covid death burden,” said Prasad. Officials said 75% of the deceased had at least one co-morbid condition like diabetes, high blood pressure, chronic cardiac or renal ailment. “Coronavirus attacks the human body on two sites unlike usual viruses which operate from a singular site. Presence of a pre-existing medical condition puts the body under immense pressure when Covid virus enters. The three-corner attack turns lethal for old patients,” explained a senior faculty at SGPGI. Meanwhile, 1,799 fresh cases took state’s Covid tally to 5,47,308 on Wednesday. The recoveries rose to 5,16,694 as 2,607 patients were cured. The state’s recovery rate has reached 94.4%, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/70-covid-deaths-of-patients-above-50-yrs/articleshow/79538068.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 3, 2020||Surat||Former BJP minister Gamit, son among 18 detained||SURAT: Hours within being chastised by the Gujarat High court for turning a blind eye of massive gathering during Covid times, the Tapi police on Wednesday detained 18 persons including former BJP minister Kanti Gamit, his son Jitu who had organized the betrothal ceremony of the latter’s daughter in Dosavada village. With the court coming down heavily on the Tapi superintendent of police (SP), an offence under section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was lodged agains the 18 at Songadh police station in the afternoon. Songadh police inspector CK Chaudhary, head constable Nilesh Manilal and Dosavada sarpanch Jitendra alias Jitu were also among those detained. Section 308 was added on Wednesday after the court fumed at the brazen violation of social distancing and mask guidelines. “During investigation, police found involvement of others after which we have detained 18 persons and they will be arrested after Covid-19 test. We found some strong evidence including the videos against them,” said Sujata Majmudar, SP, Tapi. The engagement ceremony of Gamit’s granddaughter was held at Dosvada village on Monday and video of thousands dancing to DJ music went viral the next day. Gamit, who was the tribal affairs minister in Anandiben Patel government, is presently a director in Surat District Co-operative Milk Producers' Union Ltd (SUMUL). Gamit’s son Jitu was booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). He was also booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act as well. Others detained were BJP worker Kevin Desai, cook Mahendra Chaudhary, music band owner Alpesh Gamit, mandap decorator Ramesh Gamit and videographer Mitesh Gamit who provided their services at the event were also detained. Others are friends and relatives of the Gamit family who have helped in organising the event. Songadh PI, constable suspended Surat: Songadh police inspector CK Chaudhary and head constable Nilesh have been suspended following orders from Surat range IG, Rajkumar Pandian. Pandian also ordered an inquiry by Surat (rural) SP Usha Rada to probe negligence of all police officers in Tapi district. “This is a serious matter and an impartial inquiry will be done. Based on the report, action will be taken against negligent cops,” said Pandian. Chaudhary was transferred to local intelligence bureau (LIB) in Vyara four days ago. Nilesh was posted in a local chowky. VK Parmar, a probationary deputy superintendent of police, was in-charge of Songadh police station when the ceremony was held. One person tests positive in Gamit’s village Surat: A 45-year-old man from Dosavada village tested positive for coronavirus infection on Wednesday. According to Tapi district health officials, another person from Shivnagar locality of Songadh town was also found infected. As on Wednesday, there were total 21 active Covid-19 cases in Tapi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/former-bjp-minister-gamit-son-among-18-detained/articleshow/79535791.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Patna||680 new Covid-19 cases, six deaths across Bihar||PATNA: Bihar reported 680 new cases of Covid-19 and six more deaths in the past 24 hours. With that, the coronavirus tally went up to 2,36,778 and the toll mounted to 1,274 in the state on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 233 were from Patna, taking its tally to 42,545. With 40,173 recoveries, there were 2,043 active cases in the district. The other districts with substantial number of cases were Purnea (50), Saharsa (34), Begusarai (26), Saran (25), Bhagalpur (24), Madhubani (22) and East Champaran (21). The state health department bulletin said two deaths were reported from Patna and one each from Banka, Kishanganj, Nawada and Vaishali. The toll in Patna district mounted to 329. So far 2,30,001 people have been cured from the infection, including 636 on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the state stands at 5,503 as the state now has 97.14% recovery rate, which is 3.11% higher than the national average of 94.03%. As many as 1,26,606 new samples were tested at health facilities and laboratories in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total samples tested so far to 1,49,21,021 since March. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered two deaths, including of a 65-year-old woman from Pirachak in Gaya district and another 78-year-old man from Sankatmochan Nagar in Madhubani. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 17 patients were admitted to the hospital from localities in Patna such as Jagdeopath, Rajeev Nagar and Phulwarisharif and also from other districts of Siwan, Rohtas and Darbhanga. Nine patients recovered and got discharged in the past 24 hours. At NMCH, no new Covid casualty was reported on Wednesday. One patient was discharged after testing negative for Covid-19. The number of patients undergoing treatment in its Covid ICU stood at five. The number of patients undergoing treatment at AIIMS-P was 174.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/680-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-across-bihar/articleshow/79535037.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 3, 2020||Rajkot||Three killed after car rams into SUV||PALANPUR: Three occupants of a speeding car were killed when the vehicle lost control near Dharti Marble on NH No 14 about 4km from Palanpur and rammed into a divider before colliding with an oncoming SUV on the opposite lane, late on Tuesday night. According to police sub inspector BR Patel of Palanpur police station, “The driver of the Fortuner car which was coming from Jodhpur and going to Pune (Maharashtra) lost control of the speeding vehicle which rammed into the road divider and then jumped onto the opposite lane colliding head on with another SUV coming in the opposite direction from Palanpur to Mota Karja village in Amirgadh taluka of Banaskantha. Both the vehicles were severely mangled while three occupants of the car got killed. Seven others, including four people travelling in the SUV, also received injuries in the accident that took place at around 8pm.” Police said another injured person is in a critical condition and has been referred to Ahmedabad. The deceased who died during treatment in the hospital have been identified as Sajjan Singh Chauhan (21), VP Singh Chauhan and Hitendra Singh Chuahan. The injured could be taken out of the damaged vehicle only after cutting open the door. Both the cars had six travellers each. Two other persons ran away from the spot .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-killed-after-car-rams-into-suv/articleshow/79535598.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Sushil Kumar Modi set to equal Lalu Prasad, Nagmani record||PATNA: Former deputy CM and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi is all set to break the record of his archrival RJD chief Lalu Prasad by becoming a member of both houses of Parliament and the state legislature. Modi, who filed his Rajya Sabha nomination papers on Wednesday, is all set to enter the Upper House of Parliament as the Opposition, in all probability, is not going to put up its candidate against him. If Modi wins the Rajya Sabha bypoll, he will become the third politician from Bihar after Lalu and former Union minister Nagmani to be elected to all four legislative houses—the Lok Sabha, the Rajya Sabha, the state assembly and the state legislative council. Lalu achieved the feat in 2002 when he entered Rajya Sabha after being a member of the other three legislative houses. Lalu first entered Lok Sabha in 1977, the Bihar assembly in 1980 and the state legislative council in 1990. After Lalu, former Chatra MP Nagmani made a similar record in 2006 when he was elected to the state legislative council. Before being elected to the state council, Nagmani had entered the Bihar assembly in 1977 by winning the Kurtha seat, the Rajya Sabha in 1994 as Janta Dal member and the Lok Sabha in 1999 by winning Chatra seat (now in Jharkhand) on RJD symbol. Sushil Modi entered the Bihar assembly in 1990, the Lok Sabha in 2004 after winning Bhagalpur seat and the state legislative council in 2005. “If Modi wins the current Rajya Sabha bypoll, he will equal the record of Lalu Prasad after a gap of 18 years and the record of mine after a gap of 14 years,” former Union minister Nagmani told TOI on Wednesday. Nagmani said, except Lalu and he, no other politician from Bihar could enter the four legislative houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-set-to-equal-lalu-nagmani-record/articleshow/79536183.cms||Madan Kumar
December 3, 2020||Patna||LJP dissolves all committees in Bihar||PATNA: In the first major organizational shake-up following the party’s dismal performance in the recently concluded state assembly polls, LJP president Chirag Paswan on Wednesday dissolved all the party’s committees at the state and district levels in Bihar and decided to infuse new blood. “Except for the LJP state president Prince Raj, who has been retained, all other members of various committees at state and district levels have been relieved of their positions and functions with immediate effect. Party’s all cells, state-level committees and district level committees have been dissolved,” LJP’s spokesperson Ashraf Ansari told TOI on Wednesday. Ansari said the decision to dissolve all the committees of main organization as well as its cells was taken at a crucial meeting of the party’s state parliamentary board, its vice-presidents, MPs, former MPs, state chief of all cells and state spokespersons. The meeting, presided over by the LJP chief Chirag Paswan, was held at the party’s office in the state capital. Ansari said all the committees would be formed in the next two months, before February 15 next year. “Several new people have joined the party in the recent months, especially during the assembly elections. The new committees will be formed taking all new and old people together to infuse new blood in the organization at the state and the district level,” he said. “The decision to dissolve all the committees was taken after thorough consultation with the party’s Lok Sabha members. All MPs and former MPs were consulted,” a senior party leader told TOI. LJP’s lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh, however, could not attend the meeting. Ansari said Singh was suffering from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-dissolves-all-committees-in-state/articleshow/79535301.cms||Madan Kumar
December 3, 2020||Business||Rising debit bounce rate indicates stress||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Although most lenders have been reporting a collection efficiency of over 95% on their retail loans and lower-than-expected delinquency following the pandemic, there are indications of stress among bank customers. Data from the National Payments Corporation of India shows that debit bounce rates among the National Automated Clearing House (NACH) transactions have gone up to 41% as against 31% pre-Covid. A bounce takes place when a savings account does not have enough balance to meet recurring deductions under a standing instruction, which could be for utilities, insurance, mutual fund SIPs or loan repayments. This is not the same as a default or a delinquency, but an indication that the account did not have enough money as anticipated. Bankers say that the non-salaried and self-employed customers have been witnessing more erratic cashflows during the lockdown period as many businesses were affected due to the pandemic. According to a report by Macquarie, the collection efficiency (CE) numbers reported by lenders need to be taken with a pinch of salt given the bounce rates. “While all the large banks have reported average CE of 95% for September, the bounce rates on NACH debit transactions have been inching up and currently stand at around 41% by volume and about 34% by value as compared to 31% and 25% in February,” Macquarie associate director Suresh Ganapathy said in the report. The stress in the system is currently hidden as there is a Supreme Court order barring banks from classifying defaults during the Covid period as non-performing assets (NPAs) until further orders. If the stay on asset classification is lifted, lenders will need to classify delinquent borrowers as NPAs in the December-ending quarter. According to a report by rating agency ICRA in November, the collection efficiency in ICRA-rated retail loan pools (originated largely by non-banking financial companies and housing finance companies) witnessed considerable improvement in September for almost all the asset classes. This was because of higher collections coming in the form of overdues and pre-payments. “The improvement in collection can be attributed to sharper collection efforts of the lending institutions, ease in local restrictions, improvement in economic and business activity during July-September period and lower-than-estimated impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in rural and semi-urban areas eliminating further rounds of lockdowns/restrictions at least so far,” ICRA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-debit-bounce-rate-indicates-stress/articleshow/79536785.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 3, 2020||Business||Nearly 60 applicants rush to bid for Rel Capital’s biz||TNN Mumbai: Close to 60 companies, most of them private equity investors, have shown interest in bidding for the group companies of Reliance Capital (RCap), which include insurance companies, finance firms and others where it is a strategic investor. The entire assets of holding company RCap, promoted by Anil Ambani, has elicited response from over eight bidders, including Oaktree, JC Flowers and also some asset reconstruction companies (ARCs). Interestingly, the Reserve Bank of India is against ARCs bidding as resolution applicants for companies. The bids were received by SBI Capital Markets and JM Financial Services, which have been appointed as the advisers to the lenders. The committee of debenture holders and the debenture trustees — which represents 93% of the outstanding debt of Reliance Capital of around Rs 15,000 crore — had invited expression of interest (EoI) from potential bidders. The EoI applications do not translate into a firm commitment to bid as interested parties can withdraw from making firm bids. In the case of troubled housing finance company DHFL, there were two dozen applicants, while only four made firm bids. In the case of Reliance, the maximum interest has been shown by private equity companies in Reliance General Insurance, which is owned 100% by RCap. The non-life company has generated interest from 18 bidders, which include Chryscap, JC Flowers, Blackstone, KKR, CVC Capital Partners, and Bain Capital. For Reliance Nippon Life Insurance, in which RCap owns 51% controlling stake, there are 16 bids, which includes EoIs from Bain Capital, NIIF, Arpwood Partners, Dabur Investments, Bandhan Bank, and Multiples Asset Management. In terms of the offer, bidders can apply for one or more investments on an as-is, where-is basis, which includes the liabilities of the companies. An investor who bids for multiple companies, cannot make their bids contingent upon all bids being accepted. The group’s broking arm Reliance Securities, has received eight applications, these include Bain Capital, Religare Broking, Edelweiss Securities and other ARCs. For Reliance ARC, there are 6 bidders, including Bain Capital, International Asset Reconstruction Company and other ARCs. Blackstone, Bain Capital, Arpwood Partners, and other ARCs have shown interest in Reliance Health Insurance. The trustees have also put on the block RCap’s stake in ICEX and Paytm E-commerce business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nearly-60-applicants-rush-to-bid-for-rel-capitals-biz/articleshow/79536879.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Kolkata||OTs unlock, Afghan kids go home hale and hearty||Kolkata: Resumption of international flights, in a staggered manner, has come to the rescue to three Afghan infants with congenital heart aliments. All three underwent treatment at a hospital in Howrah and were discharged on Tuesday. They will now be flying home on December 7, after post-operation check-ups. Seven-month-old Ursa Arkhel was born with a hole in the heart. Suffering from ventricular septal defect (VSD), the baby had been struggling to breathe and was not gaining weight. The infant from Takhar province had a successful open-heart surgery at Narayana Superspecialty Hospital (NSH) Howrah. The flight that brought Ursa to Kolkata on November 19 also had eight-month-old Mohammad Amir Zahid Jabarkhel from Kabul and Nehan Atmar Balach from Daikondi province. While the three-year-old Nehan was also born with a hole in his heart (atrial septal defect) and underwent interventional device closure, Zahid was diagnosed with tetralogy of fallot (blue baby) and underwent an open-heart surgery. The patients underwent the procedures on November 24 and 25. The hospital had set up a clinical team consisting cardiac surgeons Debasis Das and Nilanjan Dutta, paediatric cardiologists Amitabha Chattopadhay, Sanjeeban Ghosh and Jayita Nandy, cardiac anesthetists Manish Sharma and Rangan Koley and paediatric cardiac intensivist Shubhadeep Das for the kids’ treatments. “They were waiting for some form of the unlock process to come here for treatment. Waiting longer could have led to their conditions becoming inoperable or developing complications,” said cardiac surgeon Debasis Das. Since all the children were from poor families, their treatments were sponsored by NGOs, including Rotary Club of Mahanagar and Cultural and Empowerment Organization for Afghans led by Fatima Nargis. “The resumption of international flights came as a relief for the parents of these children. We, however, have to struggle a lot for the visas. Doctors at NHS have always had a special bond with patients from my country. Thanks to the team, these children will now fly home with a new lease of life,” Nargis told TOI. The team at the hospital has already treated 22 Afghan patients with different heart conditions in the past few years. But the pandemic had paused this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ots-unlock-afghan-kids-go-home-hale-and-hearty/articleshow/79536197.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 3, 2020||Business||L&T to sell UK unit to Rolls-Royce co||Mumbai: Larsen & Toubro (L&T) has agreed to sell its UK marine automation solutions unit to Rolls-Royce Power Systems for Rs 89 crore as part of restructuring. Servowatch Systems, the unit with 44 employees in the UK and India, had a revenue of Rs 50 crore in FY20 — 0.03% of L&T’s overall revenue. L&T said the Rs 89-crore consideration excludes taxes and any post-closing adjustments. Servowatch Systems, headquartered in Heybridge, UK, which offers solutions to navies, commercial vessels and yachts, is yet another divestiture of L&T as it seeks to sharpen its focus on its core competencies in construction and engineering. L&T recently sold its electrical automation unit to France’s Schneider for Rs 14,000 crore. L&T said it continuously evaluates its business portfolio and takes capital allocation decisions from a long-term perspective. The exit from Servowatch Systems is part of this portfolio-review process. “The divestment of Servowatch Systems is according to our stated goal of unlocking value within the existing business portfolio by divesting non-core units. L&T facilitated the business to develop an award-winning software platform for the latest generation of marine integrated platform management systems that are sold globally to many navies and commercial operators. We believe its partnership with Rolls-Royce and brand MTU will pave the way for its further growth,” said L&T CEO S N Subrahmanyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lt-to-sell-uk-unit-to-rolls-royce-co/articleshow/79538083.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 3, 2020||Kanpur||Boy falls into 30-feet borewell in Mahoba, rescue ops underway||REVISED WITH DM’s QUOTE With pics Kanpur:A massive rescue operation is underway to rescue a four-year-old-boy who fell into an open 30-feet borewell in Mahoba district’s Budhaura village in Kulpahad police area on Wednesday afternoon. The fire department and local police and local administration are jointly carrying out the operation. “Teams of NDRF and SDRF are soon arriving from Lucknow. We plan to reach to the child through a tunnel being dug by three JCB machines,” DM Satyendra Kumar told TOI in the evening. Reports said several JCB machines have been roped in to dig the area around the borewell and oxygen is being supplied continuously to the child through pipes. The child is believed to be stuck at a depth of about 30 feet. Reports said Dhanendra along with his elder sister Rekha (6) was playing when he fell into the borewell. Kulpahad police station in-charge Anup Dubey reached the spot along with police force soon after coming to know about the incident. A team from the fire department also reached the spot. Besides, a team of health department comprising doctors and paramedical staff along with oxygen cylinders has been deputed near the borewell to supply oxygen to the child. Currently, a deep pit parallel to the borewell has been dug, district officials said. “The boy fell into the borewell at around 1 pm. The child’s father Bhagirath had gone to work in the fields and his mother Kranti Devi had gone to Mahoba to get her Aadhaar card prepared. The two children later went to their father working in the fields when the boy fell in the pit. We are providing him oxygen and making all arrangements for his safety. Several JCB machines are digging a parallel pit to rescue him,” Dubey added. Meanwhile, extra police force has been deployed to control a huge crowd assembled at the spot to witness the rescue operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/boy-falls-into-30-feet-borewell-in-mahoba-rescue-ops-underway/articleshow/79535437.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 3, 2020||Surat||One tests positive in Gamit’s village||Surat: A 45-year-old man from Dosavada village tested positive for coronavirus infection on Wednesday. According to Tapi district health officials, another person from Shivnagar locality of Songadh town was also found infected. As on Wednesday, there were total 21 active Covid-19 cases in Tapi district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-tests-positive-in-gamits-village/articleshow/79536130.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Allahabad||Cops to undergo Covid-19 testing before joining Magh Mela duties||Prayagraj: Policemen arriving from different parts of the state for the forthcoming Magh Mela duties will also have to undergo antigen and RT-PCR testing before joining mela duties. Around 3,000 policemen from civil police and other wings of departments like ATS, STF, para-military forces, SDRF, NDRF, BDDS, fire, anti-mines, traffic etc. would be arriving to the mela campus to perform duties from different parts of the state including Gorakhpur and Varanasi. Around 5,000 policemen from different wings would be deployed on mela campus to offer a foolproof security cover to pilgrims and devotees coming for a holy dip in the forthcoming Magh Mela. The mela is commencing from January 14 next year. IG ( Prayagraj zone) KP Singh told TOI, “We would be conducting antigen and RT-PCR test of police personnel arriving from different parts of the state for the Magh Mela duties.” He further added, “Police forces from different districts including Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Varanasi and Gorakhpur would be arriving to perform duties at the forthcoming Magh Mela event.” He, however, said that the antigen and RT -PCR testing of policemen coming from different parts of the state would help police authorities to check the spread of the disease and police officials would also be maintaining a strict watch on the testing and its outcome”. Recently, the officials of the health department asked devotees wanting to perform kalpwas at the banks of river Ganga during the Magh Mela to bring along a negative RT-PCR test report with them to get an entry in the mela ground. The devotees will have to undergo a test every week during their month-long stay. IG, meanwhile, said, “We would be taking all corrective measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the month long mela period and adequate health facilities would be offered to devotees, pilgrims and the staff on duty.” He added, “a network of 110 CCTV sets will be installed to maintain a close watch in every nook and corner of the mela campus.” He also said that mobile police teams and pickets would be deployed at all entry and exit points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cops-to-undergo-covid-19-testing-before-joining-magh-mela-duties/articleshow/79535277.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Patna||BSEB postpones ‘Medha Diwas’ event in view of Covid pandemic||PATNA: Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has postponed its annual ‘Medha Diwas’ programme in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. It used to organize the programme to commemorate the birth anniversary of India’s first President Dr Rajendra Prasad on December 3. Earlier in November, the Bihar board had done some preparations for the event to felicitate the toppers of Class X and XII board exams 2019-20 at Gyan Bhawan here. However, the officials said the programme has been cancelled due to the pandemic. The decision was taken on Tuesday and a notification (in advertisement form) regarding the same has also been issued by the board secretary, Pramod Kumar. The state-level quiz competition has also been postponed by the Bihar board. It was scheduled to take place on Wednesday. The meritorious students were to be felicitated on Medha Diwas. The officials at Bihar board told this newspaper on Wednesday that new dates to organize the programme would be announced soon. “Around 75 top scorers in matric and intermediate examinations in 2020 will be felicitated by the Board,” the official said. The toppers of Class XII (science, commerce and arts) and Class X would get cash prize of Rs1 lakh along with a laptop and kindle e-reader each. Cash prize of Rs75,000 would be given to the second topper and Rs50,000 to the third topper along with other gadgets. The Board would also honour fourth and fifth rank holders of each stream of Class XII with Rs15,000 each and a laptop whereas Rs10,000 is given to fourth to tenth rank holders of Class X. The top five rank holders of each stream of Class XII and top ten rank holders of Class X board exams would also get the scholarship under Desh Ratna Dr Rajendra Prasad Medha Chatravriti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bseb-postpones-medha-diwas-event-in-view-of-covid-pandemic/articleshow/79535124.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 3, 2020||Patna||30 CNG buses to ply in Patna from this month||PATNA: The state transport department is planning to connect the state capital with all districts of Bihar by starting Bihar State Road Transport Corporation’s (BSRTC) bus services on all 37 routes. The BSRTC is also set to roll out 30 eco-friendly buses on various routes in the city from this month. The department has bought 70 buses, including 15 AC luxury charter buses inter-state routes, and semi-deluxe buses for and inter-district routes. The fully air-conditioned luxury buses will ply on Delhi, Ghaziabad, Siliguri and Kolkata routes from January 2021. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal told this newspaper that the plan is to provide public transportation to people from Patna to other districts and vice- versa. “We will operate semi-deluxe buses from Patna to all 37 districts of Bihar. The operation will start in a phased- manner, some buses will start on district routes from December-end while some remaining from January 2021,” Agarwal said. He added, “The 43-seater semi-deluxe buses would provide a comfortable ride to the passengers travelling from one city to another. These buses have space for luggage.” The BSRTC currently runs 38-seater buses from Patna to Nalanda- Rajgir, Muzaffarpur, Gaya, Sitamarhi, Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Nawada and Motihari routes. The 52-seater bus has push-back seats with comfortable seat belts and armrests on either side as well as enough leg space. It is equipped with a GPS tracking system, CCTV cameras, WiFi, two LCD screens, Dolby Digital audio-video DVD player and LCD screens and mobile/laptop chargers with every seat among other facilities. It also has magazine net, a grab handle and bottle holders. The state runs nine luxury buses on Jharkhand and Delhi routes. To curb the pollution level in the state capital, the department has purchased 30 CNG buses, which will ply on different routes from this month. Agarwal said around 20 buses converted from diesel to CNG are running on five routes in Patna- from Gandhi Maidan to Danapur bus stand, Danapur station, AIIMS- Patna, Patna University and Patna Sahib. “We will distribute the new CNG buses in all city routes to minimise the pollution. There are round 7- 8 CNG stations in Patna, the plan is to increase the number of stations,” he said. The state government is also promoting the use of CNG vehicles using green technology by giving a 50% reduction in road tax. Vehicles running on CNG can save up to 50% money and the maintenance cost is low compared to petrol or diesel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30-cng-buses-to-ply-in-patna-from-this-month/articleshow/79535100.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 3, 2020||Amritsar||‘Ignored by Centre, Uttar Pradesh farmers may hit the highway route too’||BATHINDA: Divisions were visible in All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an umbrella body of over 200 farm organisations from across the country which is spearheading farmer protests on the Delhi border, on Wedneday when its senior members were seen in two groups on Wednesday. Though many senior members of AIKSCC got together with farm groups from Punjab on Singhu border, convener V M Singh remained with farm groups from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand at Burari Grounds, while AIKSCC senior members Yogendra Yadav, Kakki Ji, Kavitha Kuruganthi, and Medgha Patkar were seen with farmers on Singhu border. When contacted, the convener said there were no differences in AIKSCC. He, however, added if some leaders had spoken about him, they would have to explain their position in working group’s meeting soon. He also took exception to Centre’s invitation for talks to just one farm group from UP on Tuesday and claimed that there were 55 groups of farmers in UP and Uttarakhand. The Bhartiya Kisan Union group led by Rakesh Tikait from UP was called for the meeting by Union government. The convener told TOI on Wednesday that farmers from UP and Uttarakhand would be forced to take the roads, like their counterparts from Punjab and Haryana, to show their might if the Centre would continue to ignore them. V M Singh said it seemed the Centre recognised only those who violated law and proved it by calling those farm groups for meeting who had not listened to the appeal by Union home minister Amit Shah, but ignored farm groups from UP and Uttarakhand. He said these groups had paid heed to Shah and settled at Burari Grounds, as per his appeal, and were still waiting for a call for the meeting. He said he would not stop farmers from UP and Uttarakhand if they wanted to go out of Burari Grounds as they had been ignored by the Centre. V M Singh had earlier accused the Centre of trying to cause divisons among farm organisations by ignoring farm groups from the two states and recognising farm organisations from only Punjab. V M Singh said farmers from various states grew 300 lakh tonnes of wheat and paddy each, while those from Punjab and Haryana contributed 200 lakh tonnes. He said the government still ignored farmers from UP and Uttarakhand. The ‘Dilli Chalo’ call was given by AIKSCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/ignored-by-centre-up-farmers-may-hit-the-highway-route-too/articleshow/79537582.cms||Neel Kamal
December 3, 2020||Nagpur||More Covid-19 positives than recoveries in Vidarbha on Wednesday||NAGPUR: Vidarbha’s number of recoveries came down after outnumbering new Covid cases for three days in a row on Wednesday. The region’s 11 districts reported 1,051 new Covid cases against 926 recoveries, while 23 deaths were also witnessed in the day. Only Nagpur and Chandrapur districts registered new cases in three digits, while Washim continues to see lowest number of infections in a day. The 23 deaths were from Nagpur 11, Bhandara 3, Wardha 1, Chandrapur 2, Akola 2, Yavatmal 1, Buldhana 2, Washim 1, taking the total count to 6,088. The 1,051 cases were from Nagpur 453, Bhandara 74, Wardha 66, Gondia 48, Chandrapur 168, Gadchiroli 42, Akola 26, Amravati 76, Yavatmal 50, Buldhana 28 and Washim 20, making for 2,29,152 total cases. Wednesday’s 926 recovered patients belong to Nagpur 264, Bhandara 82, Wardha 52, Gondia 128, Chandrapur 162, Gadchiroli 74, Akola 13, Amravati 38, Yavatmal 68, Buldhana 32 and Washim 13, taking the total recoveries to 2,10,993. Now, 12,175 patients are under treatment in the region. At Nagpur, two rail passengers were found Covid positive, while no flyer tested positive. On December 1, five flights from hotspots Delhi and Ahmedabad had landed in the city. Of the 527 incoming flyers, 65 had reached here without a Covid negative report. They were asked to take RT-PCR test at airport, but none of them was found infected. The civic body stated that 1,690 passengers have arrived from Covid hotspots of Delhi, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Of these, eight took the rapid antigen test and two were found positive. The civic body, however, didn’t inform the whereabouts of these two persons. Chandrapur: The Covid tally in Chandrapur has climbed to 20,283 with detection of 168 new cases on Wednesday. Discharge of 162 patients pushed the total recoveries to 18,166. There are now 1,909 patients under treatment in the district. The day also witnessed two deaths, taking the toll to 308. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 42-year-old man from the city, which makes the death toll 377. In all, 532 test reports were received, of which 50 were found positive. There are 469 patients undergoing treatment in the district. 11,606 have tested positive so far, of whom 10,763 were discharged. 68 positive patients recovered and were discharged on Wednesday. Amravati: 76 new cases took the district’s caseload to 17,998. No was death reported. The 38 recoveries of the day took the total to 17,120 for a rate of 95.1%. This left 499 active cases and 252 in home isolation. Wardha: A 70-year-old woman from the city died due to coronavirus during treatment on Wednesday, while 66 new patients were detected, taking the total to 7,957. The death toll reached 251. 52 patients were discharged after recovery and the total recoveries in district reached 7,219. Patients under treatment are 487. Out of 820 test reports on Wednesday, 66 were positive. The cases were reported from Wardha (36), Hinganghat (22), Deoli (3), Selu and Karanja (2 each) and Samudrapur (1). Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported on Wednesday. New case count increased by 42, while 74 recoveries were reported. The district now has 510 patients under treatment, while total cases are at 8,041. So far, 83 Covid patients have succumbed, while 7,448 have defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: The district reported a Covid death on Wednesday. It also reported lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 20, while 13 patients recovered and discharged. The district’s Covid toll is 149. The new cases took the tally to 6,206, total number of discharged patients rose to 5,807, while 149 are under treatment. Buldhana: Two Covid deaths took place in the district, while 28 new cases and 32 recoveries were reported on Wednesday. According to official figures, the district now has 11,389 total cases, 10,834 recoveries, 136 deaths and 419 under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported three Covid deaths, 74 new cases, and 82 recoveries on Wednesday. The district now has 942 patients under treatment. Total caseload stands at 10,900 cases, and 9,701 discharged. The Covid toll is at 257 now. Gondia: The district witnessed one Covid death, 128 recoveries and 48 new cases on Wednesday. Number of patients under treatment remained above 500-mark at 895. The new patients took the tally to 12,548 and Covid toll so far to 161, recoveries now stand at 11,492. Akola: The district reported 26 new cases, 13 recoveries and two Covid deaths on Wednesday. The total Covid tally climbed to 8,613. So far, 295 people have died of Covid here. With new recoveries, the tally of recovered patients touched 8,613. As on Wednesday, 583 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-covid-19-ves-than-recoveries-in-vid-on-wed/articleshow/79536193.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 3, 2020||Goa||HC sets aside appt of 32 staffers after govt tweaked criteria||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has set aside the 2016 appointment of 32 assistant data entry operators in the electricity department, as the selection criteria was changed by the government after the declaration of results of the written test to give “exaggerated” weightage to the oral interview . The court rapped the government for adopting arbitrary criteria that “sabotaged” the purity of the selection. The petitioners — Jenipha Elma Francis Pinto and two others — stated that a day after the publication of the results of the written test on January 11, 2016, a note was moved to the government proposing a new criterion. The note diluted the performance in the written test, and importance was attached to the oral interview. Advocate Vijay Palekar, who appeared for the petitioners, argued that the changed criterion emphasized on marks in oral interviews and extracurricular activities. He pointed out that 50 marks out of 100 were arbitrarily allotted to candidates who possessed the minimum essential qualifications of SSCE, thereby increasing the actual weightage of interview marks to 30%. While stating that the government portrayed that only 15% marks are allocated for interviews, the court noted that “by practicing subterfuge, weightage to the extent of 30% was accorded to the oral interview. Thus, what was directly prohibited was sought to be indirectly passed off as valid”. A division bench comprising justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar observed thus: “We are satisfied that the changed criterion constitutes not some minor but substantial deviation from the existing criterion prescribed in the office memorandum dated March 5, 2007.” According to us, this is clearly a case where the rules of the game were changed after the game had not only commenced but had fairly advanced, the court remarked . The court stated that the detailed response filed by the chief electrical engineer on his own behalf and that of the government had no explanation for bypassing the stipulations in the March 5 order. “This is also not a case where the changed criterion can be regarded as fair or transparent, the court said, adding that the changed criterion is quite arbitrary, resulting in the sabotage of purity of the selection post the declaration of the results of the written test on January 10, 2016,” the court said. Referring to the weightage given to the oral interview, the court said that an oral interview must not be given exaggerated weightage for proven or obvious oblique motives, or for making it arbitrary. It further said that a higher weightage for oral interviews may be considered if it is a long-standing practice from the past, which must be well notified and documented practice. For such higher weightage, the marking scheme must be part of the recruitment rules of advertisement for recruitment, and should be in the public domain for long. The high court directed the government to prepare a select list of candidates as per rules based on marks secured in the written test results declared on January 10, 2016, and the marks out of 15 allotted for the oral interviews. Thus, the court directed the government to issue appointment orders to the 32 most meritorious candidated based on the select list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-sets-aside-appt-of-32-staffers-after-govt-tweaked-criteria/articleshow/79537580.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Govt using talks to tire out, divide farmers’||Bathinda: Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has accused the NDA-led Centre of holding meetings with farm groups without concrete proposals with the motive of tiring out protesters and dividing them. BKU Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Wednesday said the government wanted in “delusion”, as these tactics were not going to work and it should read the writing on the wall and concede to farm demands. Ugrahan said scores of people were joining the protest from Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Odisha. “People from other sections of society are also extending support and the solidarity meetings are being organised all over the world, but the NDA government is not giving heed to the aspirations of farmers,” he said. Ugrahan said the three Union ministers’ proposal to form a subcommittee to study the laws was a delaying tactic which was rejected by farmer organisations unanimously. “The rejection of this proposal had a positive impact on the struggling masses and they are determined to take the fight to a decisive end,” he said. Ugrahan asserted that the same exercise of stressing on these laws was not going to serve any purpose and the government should repeal these. Farm organisation general secretary Shingara Singh Mann said a meeting of 14 villages from Sangria area in Rajasthan was conducted on Wednesday. The villagers have decided to join the protest in Delhi at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-using-talks-to-tire-out-divide-farmers/articleshow/79537612.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Khap members leave Jind for stir||Jind: Days after khaps in Haryana announced support to farmers protesting on Delhi border, members of Sarvajatiya Daran khap started a march towards the national capital from Jind on Wednesday. Before marching for Tikri border in Bahadurgarh, khap members launched a door-to-door campaign to encourage people to take part in the agitation. Ajaz Singh Palwa, general secretary of the khap and who came out from jail after seven days, said, “We will extend complete support to farmers protesting on Delhi border. We have sought support from villages to come ahead in the movement and scheduled a meeting for December 5 in the area in which people will take part on a largescale. If the issue is not resolved according to farmers’ demands, we will block the supply of fruits, vegetables, milk and other things to Delhi.” Sarvajtiya Daran khap head Dalbir Sheokand said, “I urge Haryana CM to not damage our people’s image by saying Haryana’s farmers are not with the protest. The CM is misleading the public by giving wrong statements in the media, as every farmer and khap member is with protesting farmers. We will teach a lesson to the Haryana government too and major steps are being mulled over it. Today, we have left for Tikri border to strengthen the farmers and give a message to the Haryana government that we will not step down till these three laws are not revoked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khap-members-leave-jind-for-stir/articleshow/79537602.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Goa||Valpoi PI ‘assaults’ two, sent on leave, irate crowd blocks highway||VALPOI: Goa police on Wednesday sent PI Sagar Ekoskar on seven days’ leave and initiated a departmental inquiry against him after he allegedly assaulted a former sarpanch (and current panch) in Honda, Sattari. As news of the assault — against Suresh Madkar and a resident, Sagar Naik — spread, people began gathering in large numbers outside the Honda police outpost, demanding Ekoskar’s immediate suspension. After Ekoskar was sent on leave later in the evening, Bicholim PI Mahesh Gadekar was given additional charge of Valpoi police station. Earlier, protesters blocked the Honda-Panaji highway for nearly three hours, with traffic coming to a standstill. Some even pelted stones at the outpost. Seeing the crowd unrelenting, Ekoskar tendered an apology, after which traffic flow smoothened for a while. But even then, there were hundreds of residents around the outpost, seeking his suspension. They also filed a written complaint against Ekoskar. Madkar said that Ekoskar called him and a friend to the Honda outpost under the pretext of some inquiry, and then assaulted both. “Ekoskar directly started assaulting us,” Madkar said. “He slapped us and used abusive language.” “We were taken to the Valpoi police station from Honda in a car. Throughout the journey, Ekoskar assaulted us,” he said. As news spread, people began gathering around the outpost at noon, and stayed put for several hours. Shop owners at Honda, too, voluntarily kept their establishments shut in solidarity with the victims. Even eight hours later, a crowd was still at the outpost, demanding his suspension. North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon, Sattari mamlatdar Dasharath Gawas, DySPs and police inspectors from various police stations tried to pacify the crowd, but failed. A loca, Shivdas Madkar, said that Prasoon called a few residents inside the outpost for discussions, and promised them that an inquiry would be initiated against Ekoskar and the report submitted within 24 hours. Madkar also said the SP promised that based on the report, action would be initiated against Ekoskar. “The SP said that he would not send Ekoskar to Valpoi police station, and his charge would be given to another (officer),” Madkar said. A senior citizen, Sagun Wadkar, said that the police officers are meant to take care of law, but in this case, he took the law in his hands. He added that Ekoskar deserves strict action against this illegality. Locals, however, were firm about their demand of Ekoskar’s immediate suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/valpoi-pi-assaults-two-sent-on-leave-irate-crowd-blocks-highway/articleshow/79537627.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||MNREGS job cards to women under Uttar Pradesh livelihood mission||LUCKNOW: More and more women are set to get jobs under government schemes seeking to increase employment opportunity during the pandemic. The state government has decided to provide Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) job cards to women enrolled in the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM) in a move that could potentially increase the workforce of women under the Centre’s flagship scheme. Additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said that the department has decided to give 100 days of employment to women enrolled under SRLM. “This would not only increase the proportion of women engaged under MNREGS but also help them financially,” Kumar said. The development, sources said, is being necessitated because of low women participation in MNREGS. Rural development department records show that women account for only 33% of the workforce under MNREGS. This is lower than the national average of 52%. Data shows that of the total 19.8 crore person days generated in UP, only 6.5 crore goes to women. On the contrary, states like Kerala have 91% of person days by women. Even states like Punjab and Haryana account for 58% and 49% of person days for women, respectively, while bordering states like Rajasthan and Uttarakhand have 65% and 55% of women getting enrolled in MNREGS workforce respectively. Bihar has around 54% of women engaged under MNREGS. UP rural development data further reveals that it is the west and parts of central UP districts where women participation is less than 30%. The number of women engaged in MNREGS rises to 40% in east UP. Women participation is more than 40% in around a dozen districts, essentially in south-east UP region of Vindhyachal. Rural development officials said that women-specific efforts are needed to scale up their participation. This includes identifying women-only work sites, their security, empowering them to have collective ownership, besides reserving some work for them like in nurseries. The focus will be on using the social capital of National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) to create durable livelihood assets which are led and managed by women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mnregs-job-cards-to-women-under-up-livelihood-mission/articleshow/79538129.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Helping hands: Ambala group to sow winter crop||Ambala: Some farmers of Tundla and Talheri villages have formed a Kisan Sewa Dal to sow wheat and look after the fields of those peasants who are at the Delhi protest. Gurjatan Singh Billu of Tundla will lead the group, the farmers have announced at Ambala Cantonment on Wednesday. The group will look after the protesters’ families in Ambala district. Jagjit Singh of Tundla and Ravinder Singh, Davinder Singh, Jashandeep Singh, Devi Charan, Chetan Sharma, and Kesar of Talheri were also at the meeting where the group also released a helpline number, 8930830032, for any farmer of Ambala district who need help with sowing wheat. Gurjatan said: “Kisan Sewa Dal has 40-odd volunteers. Farmers can contact us for wheat sowing or irrigating their fields. We’ll also bear the cost. Whichever seed variety they want to sow, we will procure it. We ask for similar groups in other districts. We don’t know how long this fight will go but we are there to help our brothers who are fighting for our rights. We’ll not take any donation from outside.” The farmers’ march to Delhi continues. On Wednesday, five tractor-trailers from Mohali’s Handesra village crossed Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/helping-hands-ambala-group-to-sow-winter-crop/articleshow/79537633.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Youngsters set up moving library on Singhu border||Bathinda: A group of youngsters has set up a makeshift library on Haryana’s Singhu border with Delhi, one of the venues of the farm protest against Centre’s agri laws, and are encouraging farmers to read books on revolutonaries Bhagat Singh, Baba Sohan Singh Bhakna, Ghadarites and Kartar Singh Sarabha. A basket, in which the books have been kept, is circulated across the venue for people who would want to browse the collection. The service is voluntary and free of cost. Youngsters who have pitched the stall are from Moga district and are working with left organisation All India Youth Federation (AIYF). “As the habit of reading literature is on the decline in Punjab, we are reaching out to farmers by trying to make them read books,” said Sukhjinder Maheshri, who coordinates for the stall. Veerpal Kaur, who is pursuing postgraduation from theatre department of Panjab University, said they wanted people to love books and know more about freedom fighters who liberated the country. Jaspreet Kaur from Badhni in Moga said there were many farmers who were illiterate, but still evinced keen intertest in books and wanted to know more about literature. “We feel we’ll succeed even if some persons get hooked to books. We don’t want anyone to look ar farmers as naive,” said Jaspreet Veerpal said they had been with teh protesters for the past two months and had reached the Delhi border with them on November 27. She added they would stay there till the protest ended and were trying to add books to their collection by purchasing these from Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youngsters-set-up-moving-library-on-singhu-border/articleshow/79537643.cms||Neel Kamal
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||‘UPA put agri panel reforms on back burner’||Lucknow: Reacting to the ongoing farmers’ protest, former agriculture minister and BJP’s UP in charge Radha Mohan Singh accused the previous Congress-led UPA government of putting the Swaminathan Commission report on agricultural reforms on the back burner. He said the report was revived only after BJP came to power. The National Commission on Farmers chaired by Prof M S Swaminathan had submitted five reports between December 2004 and October 2006. The final report focused on farm distress and rise in farmer suicides and recommended a holistic national policy. Singh said the Narendra Modi government was committed to welfare of farmers. “Farmers have the first right on natural resources,” Singh, who is also BJP vice-president. He stressed the Centre was providing all help to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upa-put-agri-panel-reforms-on-back-burner/articleshow/79538116.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: No sample collection from wedding venues||LUCKNOW: The state health department said on Wednesday targeted sample collection will continue as planned but, no health team would go to any wedding venue where marriage is being solemnised. “Health teams will test people engaged in wedding activities like caterers, waiters, etc, but team will not go to wedding venues. Samples are to be taken from people’s work place,” said additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad . It may be noted that under its activities to keep an eye on Covid-19 pandemic, the health department launched targeted sample collection after Diwali. The exercise was about testing people who have high public interface. As per schedule, people engaged in weddings are being covered between December 1 and 3. Prasad said the focused sampling will continue for the entire month. “From December 4, targeted sampling will take place in localities where positive cases are found. The CMOs have already been instructed to map the positive patients geographically to list out vulnerable areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-sample-collection-from-wedding-venues/articleshow/79538080.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 3, 2020||Pune||Second wave only if Maharashtra's positivity rate is over 12% for weeks: Experts||PUNE: The state’s Covid-19 positivity rate oscillated between 7% and 9% post-Diwali despite some minor spikes in fresh cases, and it stood at 8.4% on Wednesday. State surveillance experts studying the disease spread or epidemiology of the SARS-CoV-2 said a well-defined resurgence or the so-called “second wave” could only be hinted at when, along with optimum and sustained testing, the positivity rate reached 12% and continued to be at and above it for at least a few weeks at a stretch. The state had the highest positivity rate at 24.6%, recorded between September 10 and September 17. Given the state’s and India’s high antibody positivity rates in the erstwhile mass sero surveys, the second wave, even if it comes, would be half as severe as the first wave, stressed experts. “The minor spikes in fresh cases seen in between the days do not qualify to be called the resurgence of the SARS-CoV-2,” said state surveillance officer Pradip Awate. The virus resurgence can fairly be declared to have begun when the positivity rate touches 12 % and remains at and above it sustainably for a few consecutive weeks, he added. “That is at least half of the maximum positivity rate of 24.6% the state had reached in September,” Awate said. Senior virologist Deepak Gadkari dismissed calling every minor spike as the definitive resurgence. “A well-defined resurgence of the virus can be seen when there is a definitive rise in positivity rate, sustainable for a couple of weeks to months,” he said. Senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee criticised the method to define resurgence based solely on positivity rate and called it “arbitrary”. “First, the positivity rate depends on many factors. It can fluctuate either way by reducing or augmenting the testing rates,” he said. Besides, the positivity rate with RT-PCR may give an accurate picture of the transmission in countries in the West with low population sero positivity owing to low virus spread. The same criteria might not hold true in congested high-density pockets like India, where sero surveys indicate a large proportion of people had already been infected, he said. “We know that the RT-PCR test can pick up inactive fragments of the coronavirus. With a sizeable surveyed people in urban pockets already found exposed to the virus, a large number of these recovered or asymptomatic people may be harbouring the inactive fragment of the virus. They are likely to test positive if their swab samples get drawn for being ‘close contacts’ or when they develop seasonal flu, driving up the positivity rate,” Banerjee said. “Instead of using trends of positive cases to predict a second wave, trends of deaths from Covid will enable a more accurate prediction. Currently, Covid-casualties continue to decline, which should make us cautiously optimistic,” Banerjee said. Explaining the second wave, Banerjee said, “The second wave is a phenomenon that can develop during a pandemic. The disease infects one group of people first. Infections appear to decrease. And then, infections increase in a different part of or a subset of the population, resulting in a second wave of infections.” But, for a second wave, there has to be a sustained rise in infections. “Keeping in view the state’s and India’s high sero positivity rates in earlier sero surveys, one can, at least with some conviction, say that the second wave, even if it comes, will be half to 1/3rd as severe as the first wave,” Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2nd-wave-only-if-positivity-rate-is-over-12-for-weeks-experts/articleshow/79537618.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 3, 2020||Pune||Pune: Deputy CM Ajit Pawar to seek poll panel nod for Covid-19 review meet||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said he would seek the Election Commission of India’s permission to hold a Covid-19 district review meeting on Friday amid the apprehension about a possible second wave of the contagion. “Any decision on any further curbs would have to be taken in consultation with the local authorities and I shall be requesting the ECI (Election Commission of India) to allow me to hold the weekly review meeting as the Model Code of Conduct is in place because of the MLC elections for teachers and graduate constituencies,” he told TOI. The process of elections would be over only on December 7 though the counting is on December 3. A fortnight ago, Ajit Pawar had said there was huge crowding on the eve of Diwali and the situation would have to be assessed. He said on Wednesday he was taking updates on the Covid situation in the district and any further decision would be taken after detailed discussions. The health officials stated that the positivity rate was hovering around 10-11% after analysing the test results data over the last three-four weeks. The state’s technical advisor to the government, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, also a member of the state-appointed committee on communicable diseases, stressed on the need to increase testing in both Pune and the state. “There was a slight dip in testing in Pune because of the elections. As of now, we are ranging between 8,000-9,000 daily in the district. We need to scale it up to 13,000-14,000 tests per day. The positivity rate is fortunately around 10-11%. We need to reduce it below 5%. For this, we need to continue with our strategy of testing, tracking and early treatment,” he said. Salunkhe said a complete lockdown was not needed in the present scenario. But he stressed on following Covid-appropriate behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-to-seek-poll-panel-nod-for-covid-19-review-meet/articleshow/79537644.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||It’s your Film City: Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath rolls out red carpet for Bollywood||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made a splash in the Mumbai film fraternity on Wednesday, while unveiling his ambitious Film City project in Noida and sought suggestions from a galaxy of Bollywood top guns on the blueprint. Speaking to actors, producers and filmmakers, he said, it was important for the film industry and government to jointly tackle challenges with the film world leading from the front and the government playing a supporting role, the CM said. “We are open to suggestions from you as it is your film city. It will be built according to your requirements and you are welcome in Uttar Pradesh,” he told a gathering of celebrities comprising Raju Srivastava, Ravi Kishan, Rahul Mishra, Subhash Ghai, Boney Kapoor, Manmohan Shetty, Pahlaj Nihalani, Ajay Rai, Satish Kaushik, Lyca Productions CEO Ashish Singh, GK Production head Sumit Khurana, Viacom 18 Motion Pictures vice-president marketing Rudrup Dutta, producer Rajiv Malhotra, director Tigmanshu Dhulia, director Anil Sharma, producer Poonam Shivdasani, Carnival Motion Pictures CEP Vaishali Sarvankar, director Honey Trehan, actor Arjun Rampal, trade analyst Komal Nahata, Producers Guild CEO Nitin Ahuja, producer Vikram Khakar and film producers Ramesh Yadav and Ajay Kapoor. The chief minister said, his government’s aim was to give the country another state-of-the-art film city. Uttar Pradesh has a rich cultural and historical heritage and blessed with natural surroundings, he said. “Be it Vindhya region with its unique natural heritage or rich cultural and historical legacy of Bundelkhand and Ayodhya, UP has everything the film industry requires for resources and locales. From Indo-Nepal border areas to waterfalls in Vindhya region or forests of Sonbhadra and Mirzapur, film makers have multiple options for shooting,” he said. He also spoke about UP’s tourism potential, citing mega events like Kumbh, Dev Deepawali and Deepotsav to show how crores of people have been drawn to these congregations. A government spokesperson said, many of those present at the meeting wanted to meet the chief minister and discuss their films and projects. “The land identified for Film City is connected to Delhi with Mathura and Vrindavan barely a half-an-hour’s drive. Agra is also an hour’s drive from the proposed film city, which is also 6 km from Asia’s biggest greenfield airport coming up in Jewar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/its-your-film-city-yogi-red-carpet-to-bollywood/articleshow/79538105.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 3, 2020||Kanpur||Corporator’s supporters, Bajrang Dal activists protest at municipal commissioners’ residence||Kanpur: A local corporator, his supporters and Bajrang Dal activists protested and held a demonstration here on Wednesday after a sign board, reportedly installed by a local corporator at Yashoda Nagar after changing name of the crossing from Nizam crossing to Shri Ram Chowk, went missing. As the news of spread, the local corporator along with his supporters and Bajrang Dal activists took out a march and gheraoed the residence of the municipal commissioner and created ruckus demanding immediate action against the culprits. They wanted to meet the municipal commissioner to submit a memorandum to him demanding stern action against those who had removed the signboard. Police had a tough time in pacifying the agitated crowd. The situation became tense after the enforcement wing of the Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) allegedly used force to disperse the crowd. Corporator Prashant Shukla, meanwhile, claimed later that on Wednesday afternoon, he along with his supporters had gone to the residence of the municipal commissioner to lodge their protest against removal of the signboard. The crossing, which was known as Nizam crossing, was renamed as Shri Ram Chowk and corporator Prashant Shukla had got installed the signboard at the crossing. Shukla said that a few days ago he had placed the signboard at the crossing with the consent of the locals and renamed it as Shri Ram Chowk. "The signboard was found missing on Wednesday morning. Thereafter, he along with his supporters, visited municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi's residence on Wednesday afternoon and lodged a protest before handing over a memorandum asking him to look into the matter”, he said. “After being assured by the municipal commissioner, we had called off the protest. It was when he was about to leave the residence of municipal commissioner, scores of Bajrang Dal activists too reached there for the same cause and staged a demonstration and raised slogans against the KMC authorities demanding strict action against the culprits”, Shukla further said. After getting information of the protest and demonstration, the KMC’s enforcement squad too reached there and heated arguments ensued between the two sides, he added. According to sources, the agitated Bajrang Dal activists thereafter sat on dharna and demanded strict action against the enforcement staff who for allegedly misbehaving with them. Meanwhile, police force from several police stations and senior police officials too reached the spot and pacified the demonstrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/corporators-supporters-bajrang-dal-activists-protest-at-municipal-commissioners-residence/articleshow/79535522.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Kanpur||Phase II & III trials of Sputnik V vaccine begin||Kanpur: The trial for 2nd and 3rd phase of Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, commenced at Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial Medical College here on Wednesday. As many as 30 volunteers have been selected for the trial. Officials from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories were also present. In September, Dr Reddy’s and Russian firm RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of the Sputnik V vaccine and the rights for distribution of the first 100 million doses in India. RT-PCR test of each volunteer is being conducted to confirm their Covid status. Various blood tests would also be done to check for medical fitness of the volunteers. Upon complete medical fitness, volunteers would be allowed to participate further in the vaccine trial. On Wednesday, blood samples of 30 volunteers were collected. Further, to rule out that they are infected with coronavirus, swab samples were also taken. The reports of these tests are awaited. All the volunteers are aged between 18 and 56 years. Principal, GSVM Medical College, Dr RB Kamal said, “Company representatives who had come to the city took along the blood samples. They would conduct test on the blood samples in their laboratory. “Russia’s Covid-19 vaccine — Sputnik V — would be administered to he volunteers only if they are pronounced to be medically fit. Here in Kanpur, this vaccine would be administered to 20 volunteers,” Dr Kamal said. Till November, 200 people had volunteered themselves for the trials of Sputnik V, out of which 30 were shortlisted. “Each volunteer would be administered two doses at 21-day interval. The entire research work would go on for seven month,” he said and added that the clinical trial/research on the Sputnik V vaccine is to be carried out under Dr Saurabh Agarwal of the medicine department of the medical college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/phase-ii-iii-trials-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-begin/articleshow/79535561.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Vision barriers fail to foil LU student dream||Lucknow: When MA (Urdu) student Mohd Ghufran cleared the National Eligibility Test- Junior Research Fellowship examination JRF by scoring 172 marks out of 300, his teachers and friends were even more happier than him and celebrated his success. Ghufran, who is differently-abled, said, “I have vision problem since birth. I have zero vision in one eye and just 5% in the other. I am grateful to my teachers and friends who recorded lectures for me.” Ghufran, who lives in Aminabad, said, “I want to pursue PhD from Lucknow University as everyone here is very supportive, especially our head Prof Abbas Raza Nayyar. I aspire to become a professor and am happy that I cleared JRF.” “I had cleared NET in the first attempt, but wanted to be a JRF,” he said. “I lost three years after schooling as I was unaware that we get a writer in higher education and an extra hour to write exam. RSVI organization of Prof Rakesh Jain and Shraddha ji made me aware of the support students like me get from government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vision-barriers-fail-to-foil-lu-student-dream/articleshow/79538296.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 3, 2020||Chandigarh||Jind village’s giant ladoo||Jind: A 50-quintal ladoo prepared by 50 hands over two days at Karsola near Julana will go to the farmers’ protest in Delhi. The team that will carry this giant sweet to the agitation on Thursday has a member from each village home. Even 10 confectioners gave their services free of cost. Villager Naresh Kumar told TOI: “Besides Rs 15 lakh, the villagers donated sugar, flour, firewood, and other necessary items” The ladoo service will continue till the end of the protest. On Thursday, 50 tractors will carry this ladoo to the Tikari border in a message to the Haryana government that the state’s farmers stand with their Punjab counterparts against the three new agri-marketing laws.” Several villagers said: “We will support the farmers’ movement by keeping it supplied with food. Even if we have to cook for a year, we’ll not leave them hungry. The Punjab farmers are our brethren and together we will make the central government withdraw its agri-marketing laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jind-villages-giant-ladoo/articleshow/79537675.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||NBRI won’t unlock its park, more wait for daily walkers||Lucknow: Morning walkers will have to wait longer than expected for getting access to the refreshing green environment of the parks in the National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI). The institute has decided not to not open it for public till the pandemic subsides. The reason: Some staff members had tested Covid-19 positive a couple of months ago and a similar outbreak in the future cannot be ruled out despite all necessary precautions being taken. Since majority of the morning visitors are elderly, opening up may put them in danger, officers said. NBRI’s parks have been shut since March after the pandemic hit. Around 800 people used to visit NBRI for morning walk daily. “All good parks are in trans-Gomti or Gomtinagar Extension; the only place for people living in the heart of the city and even for old Luckow is NBRI. All other parks have opened then why not NBRI,” said banker Rahul Srivastava. Fitness enthusiast Prof Atul Singh said, “Everything is open now then why not a place which is good for people’s health. Air pollution and depression due to the pandemic are on the rise. In such circumstances, NBRI park is a great healer.” Advocate Vinay Krishna Pandey said, “Nowhere else will one find dancing peacocks, perfect green shade and fragrance of medicinal plants. The place helps me stay fit. Its closure for eight months has affected my mental health. NBRI director Prof SK Barik said, “In the past, a few of our staff have been tested Covid positive so we can’t put people’s health at risk. Hundreds of people come for a morning walk at NBRI and around 1,000 people work here. NBRI is not just a park but an institute. Opening it amid Covid-19 is risky for people.” He also added that a majority of morning walkers who come here are above 60 years of age and it was in their interest that the park was not being opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nbri-wont-unlock-its-park-more-wait-for-daily-walkers/articleshow/79538284.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Offline-online mix for KGMU convocation||Lucknow: For the first time in the history of King George’s Medical University, the students and faculty will witness their convocation ceremony, scheduled to be held on December 21, as a mix of online and offline events. Keeping Covid-19 regulations in mind, the university will have different seating arrangements for guests and meritorious students, and technology will be used to bind them. The 16th convocation day will be followed by the university’s 115th foundation day on December 22. KGMU has also extended an invitation to President Ram Nath Kovind. His reply is awaited. “We will push for a virtual attendance of the President of India if he is unable to come to Lucknow. In the event of his unavailability, UP Governor Anandiben Patel will felicitate meritorious students,” said KGMU spokesman Prof Sudhir Singh. If the President accepts the invitation, he will be first head of the state to attend KGMU convocation in 15 years. In January 2005, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam was the last President to attend the convocation of the medical university. Incidentally, it was also the first convocation of the institution after the then King George’s Medical College was accorded the status of a university in 2002. “We are still in planning stage and micromanagement issues will be finalised in the next couple of days,” he added. As for meritorious students, the university’s examination centre will soon come up with a list of toppers which will be sent to the respective departments for review. In case of a tie, the department will take the last call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/offline-online-mix-for-kgmu-convocation/articleshow/79538239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 3, 2020||Goa||Goa: Half of seats at private engineering colleges remain unfilled||PANAJI: The main admission rounds for engineering degree seats by the directorate of technical education (DTE) ended on Monday. At the end of the rounds, nearly 550 — or 50% — of the 1,150 seats in the four private engineering colleges in Goa went vacant. Last year, after seats were added to provide quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS), 350 seats remain unfilled. That number increased further this year, as a lower number of students applied for the seats, presumably due to fears of the ongoing pandemic. Officials said that financial strain also appears to be a factor, as none of the 450-odd seats at the state-run Goa College of Engineering (GEC) at Farmagudi have gone vacant, as the fees there are subsidised. “There are 1,600 degree seats on offer in all five engineering colleges in Goa, of which all seats at GEC are taken,” the official said. “Of the 1,100-odd seats in the four private colleges, 550 are vacant. In Padre Conceicao College of Engineering (PCCE), 100-odd seats are not taken. At Don Bosco College of Engineering and Agnel Institute of Technology and Design (AITD), there are 125 seats unfilled each.” Similarly, at the Rayeshwar Institute of Engineering and Information Technology (RIEIT) at Shiroda, which normally sees the majority of its seats remaining vacant among all institutes, 200 seats have gone unclaimed by aspirants. While around 3,000 students appeared for the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET), which is the qualifying test to get an engineering seat in the state, only around 2,000 applied for a seat. Normally, the number of applicants itself is around 2,500, said the official. He said that travel restrictions during the pandemic also meant that those living abroad could not claim the seats reserved for NRIs and Goan natives. “There are 5% seats reserved for NRI students in all private colleges, and one each at GEC in every course. Out of 50 seats in all, only ten have been taken. And of the 25 seats for Goan natives, only another ten have found takers. Possibly, the aspirants could not travel due to the pandemic,” said the official. When it came to choice of streams, the preferences, however, indicated the usual trends with the largest number choosing computer science as their first choice, followed by mechanical engineering and then information technology, in that order. “Preference for electronics is on the downslide in recent years. The same continued this year,” said the source. To accommodate the new EWS quota, around 25% more seats have been added to engineering programmes. “While seats have gone up, the number of applicants remains the same. It is a matter of increase in supply. Also, in recent years, with institutes like National Institute of Technology (NIT) and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) coming to Goa, higher scorers prefer to join these institutes as they can continue to be in Goa and get a degree from a national institute at the same time,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/half-of-seats-at-pvt-engg-colleges-remain-unfilled/articleshow/79537646.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 3, 2020||Allahabad||Sand-laden truck overturns, falls on SUV; 8-yr-old & 7 others killed||Prayagraj: In a ghastly accident, eight persons, including six women, a boy and the driver, were crushed to death on the spot when a sand-laden truck overturned and fell on their parked SUV near Deviganj crossing in Kadadham police station area of Kaushambi district early on Wednesday. Two girls, who had stepped out of the SUV to inquire about direction, survived fortunately. Additional SP (Kaushambi) Samar Bahadur told TOI, “The accident took place between 3am and 3.30am on Wednesday when around 10 persons of a village were returning in the SUV after attending a wedding in Deviganj.” The driver of the SUV had parked the vehicle on roadside when the rear tyre of the truck passing by burst and it overturned and fell on the SUV crushing it badly and killing eight persons on the spot, he added. “Police received information about the road mishap at around 3.40am. Police teams were rushed with a crane for the rescue operation,” the ASP said. Kaushambi district magistrate and SP also rushed to the spot along with personnel and supervised rescue operations. The deceased were identified as Roshi (50), Neha (28), Shashi (40), Om (8), Poonam (40), Muskan (14), Soma Tiwari (19) and driver Shivraj Saroj (23), all residents of Shahzadpur. The bodies were sent for autopsy. A case was registered under relevant sections against the truck driver and owner. Eyewitnesses said the SUV was found badly crushed when the truck was removed by crane and it was a horrible sight. The bodies were taken out of the vehicle with the help of gas cutters and sent for postmortem. Police said two girls, Shweta (13) and Kushi (16), survived as they had stepped down from the SUV. The victims had come from Shahzadpur to Maheshwari Garden, Deviganj, to attend a wedding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/sand-laden-truck-overturns-falls-on-suv-8-yr-old-7-others-killed/articleshow/79535318.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: 4% of flyers test positive on arrival at Pune's Lohegaon||PUNE: The civic body’s health team has identified 22 Covid-19 positive flyers among the travellers reaching the city airport from Delhi, Goa, Rajasthan and Gujarat in the past week without the RT-PCR negative report. Over 500 passengers, who did not undergo the RT-PCR tests before boarding the flights from these states, were screened at the Pune airport. The Maharashtra government has announced that people reaching the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat either need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report or have to undergo the test at the arriving airports. People reaching Maharashtra from other parts of the country in flights connecting the four states will not have to carry with them the RT-PCR negative reports or undergo the test on arrival in the state. “The protocol is set. Any traveller boarding a flight from the four states needs to undergo a Covid-19 test before travel and carry the RT-PCR negative report. If the test results are positive, they are not supposed to board the flight. But during our checks, we found that some travellers had not undergone the tests. Their tests were conducted at the Lohegaon airport,” said Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department. A PMC official said the flyers testing Covid-19 positive people were told to get quarantined or admitted in hospital, depending on their health condition. On an average, 60-72 flights are currently arriving or leaving the Lohegaon airport every day. The daily footfall of passengers is around 8,000-10,000, of whom 1%-2% do not carry the RT-PCR test reports. The maximum number of flyers (122) reaching the city without undergoing the tests were identified on November 25, followed by 78 passengers on November 26 and 77 travellers on November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-of-flyers-test-positive-on-arrival-at-lohegaon/articleshow/79537671.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Farmer’s son scores 100 in Urdu; a first in Lucknow University history||LUCKNOW: He came from a small town, studied at a madrassa, lived in a rented room in Kaiserbagh and gave tuition to pay his fee. Life threw many challenges at this farmer’s son but he remained undeterred. The hard work of Mohd Taufique, a BA (final year) student at Mumtaz PG College, finally paid off when he became the first student in the history of Lucknow University to score 100% marks in Urdu and emerge as course topper. Taufique will be awarded the prestigious Braj Narayan Chakbast Memorial Gold Medal for securing highest marks in Urdu. While Taufique did his teacher and parents proud by scoring full marks, another student Mohammad Qasim, has also brought laurels by securing highest marks in MA (Urdu). He will be awarded Vice-Chancellor’s gold medal. Qasim has also cleared UP assistant teacher recruitment examination and has also qualified civil services (pre) examination-2018. Taufique gave the credit of his success to his teacher Prof Firdaus Jahan and said he wanted to become a teacher so that he could teach students coming from a humble backgroud. “My father was a farmer. After his death in 2012, my family had to face financial crisis. After completing my schooling from a madrassa in Basti, I came to Lucknow and started giving tuition to continue my studies,” said Taufique. Taufique said he had never imagined that he would become the first student to score full marks in Urdu and get a gold medal. Head of LU’s Urdu department Prof Abbas Raza Nayyar said, “Since the examination was multiple-choice based in view of pandemic, the student has scored full marks. Still, one needs to study thoroughly to secure full marks even in an objective type examination.” Meanwhile, MA (Urdu) topper Qasim has joined as an assistant teacher in a basic school in Ambedkarnagar. “The support of my teacher and parents helped me perform well. I am already a teacher in a basic school and want to clear UPSC (mains) examination to become a civil servant,” Qasim said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/farmers-son-scores-100-in-urdu-a-first-in-lu-history/articleshow/79538156.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Priya Kushwaha is the ‘Best Disabled Athlete’ in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Priya Kushwaha, daughter of an ex-serviceman JS Kushwaha and student of Asha School, Lucknow, has been declared 'Best Disabled Athlete' of Uttar Pradesh 2020-21. According to principal of Asha School in Lucknow Cantonment Sharmistha Basu, Priya is a student with intellectual disability, but her strong determination and will to march ahead despite odds has made her a recipient of several accolades.  She was coached in roller skating by Ajit Verma and Neelam Srivastava, said Basu Skating since the age of 12 years, she won two gold and one bronze medal in 300m, 1,000m and 2x100m relay respectively in the Special Olympics held in Abu Dhabi in 2019. She also won a bronze medal in the national championship in 2016 held at Narkanda in the event of snow shoeing and another bronze medal in the event of roller skating in the national championship in 2017 held in Secunderabad. She also represented UP (Solan) in the team event of floor hockey in which the team secured a bronze medal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/priya-is-the-best-disabled-athlete-in-up/articleshow/79538277.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Goa||Michael Lobo didn’t speak to me about reshuffle: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: A day after ports minister Michael Lobo said that non-performing ministers need to be replaced for better results at the 2022 assembly polls, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that Lobo hadn’t approached him on the issue. “(Lobo) has not spoken to me at all,” Sawant said. “And issue of reshuffles is not decided by ministers. The party decides it.” He was speaking to reporters after a party meet to discuss, among other issues, the upcoming visit of national BJP president JP Nadda to Goa later this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-lobo-didnt-speak-to-me-about-reshuffle/articleshow/79537705.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Kanpur||KDA, forest department plan to convert Botanical Garden into bio-diversity park||Times News Network Kanpur: Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) and the forest department have planned to convert the Botanical Garden into a bio-diversity park as per the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) . Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar along with the KDA vice-chairman Rakesh Singh, KDA secretary, district forest officer and the additional municipal commissioner inspected site of the Ganga bio-diversity park here on Wednesday . He said that NGT had suggested setting up a bio-diversity park on the bank of Ganga to conserve the biodiversity of the river and to create awareness among the people regarding its conservation. The Government of India and the UP government, under the National Ganga Mission on ‘Clean Ganga’, had launched several projects to keep the river clean and pollution free. The commissioner stated that in 2014, the KDA had started work on the Botanical Garden project worth Rs 130 crore in which the KDA invested around Rs 13 crore, but the project had to be stopped due to some legal hurdles and orders passed by the high court and the National Green Tribunal. The layout plan of the Botanical Garden, prepared by a Delhi based architect, was approved by the KDA in July 2014. As per its blueprint, the garden was a part of the beautification program of the Ganga barrage having a cinema house for college students, an artificial lake and a water museum. A well equipped platform had also been planned for organizing cultural programs. A shopping- cum- kid museum block along with a food court, entertainment zone and two banquet halls were also planned. But all this had to be stopped when some nature lovers moved the high court and the NGT and requested them to stop cutting of trees and changing the environment of the area. After visiting the park, the commissioner said that the bio-diversity park to be constructed on an area of 50 acre would display all bio-diversity of the Ganga belt starting from its origin. The park, he said, would have an activity centre, watch towers, food courts, toilets, Ganga museum, green building etc. He said KDA after taking approval of the plan from the National Green Tribunal would later get it passed at its board meeting. The work would be completed within three years time, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kda-forest-department-plan-to-convert-botanical-garden-into-bio-diversity-park/articleshow/79535578.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Kanpur||Third phase of Covaxintrials begins tomorrow||Kanpur: After the successful phase one and two trials, phase three trial of the indigenously developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin, will commence in the industrial city on Friday. In this phase, vaccine trial would be carried out on 1,000 volunteers. On Thursday, a lot of Covaxin vaccine would reach the city for trials. The phase one and two trials were held in the month of July and September, respectively. While in phase one the vaccine was given to 33 volunteers, in the second phase 42 volunteers took the vaccine shot. The trials have been successful so far and led to development of antibodies in the volunteers. Principal investigator for Covaxin at Prakhar Hospital, Arya Nagar, Dr JS Kushwaha said, “Phase one and two trails held in July and September have been successful. Now, we are set to commence phase three trails from Friday. First, RT-PCR test of volunteers would be conducted and only those who test negative would be selected for the task. On Friday, registration of volunteers would be done first after which RT-PCR test for Covid-19 would be done” He confirmed that the trial would be carried out on 1,000 people and a lot of Covaxin vaccine would reach city on Thursday. “It will be from next week that volunteers would be administered the trial shot. Administering the trial shot to 1,000 people will take sometime but we shall complete the task in coming months. We are confident that this would render great results since the phase one and two trials (of Covaxin vaccine) have been successful,” Dr Kushwaha told TOI on Wednesday. He also mentioned that the phase three trials would be carried out at Prakhar Hospital where clinical trials of Covaxin in phase one and two were also held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/third-phase-of-covaxintrials-begins-tomorrow/articleshow/79535534.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||HC: Nobody can interfere if two adults are living together||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has observed that adult live-in couples are free to live together without interference from anybody, even their parents. The court directed the police authorities to provide full protection to a couple which had approached it against harassment by the girl's family members. Allowing a writ petition filed by Farrukhabad's Kamini Devi and Ajay Kumar, a division bench comprising Justice Anjani Kumar Mishra and Justice Prakash Padia observed, “The apex court in long line of decisions has settled the law that where a boy and girl are major and they are living with their free will, then nobody -- including their parents -- has authority to interfere with their living together.” “As right to live is a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India in which it is provided that no person shall be deprived of his right to life and personal liberty,” observed the court. The court further directed that in case any disturbance is caused in the peaceful living of the petitioners, the petitioners shall approach the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Farrukhabad, with self-attested computer generated copy of this order downloaded from the official website of the high court, Allahabad. "The SSP shall provide immediate protection to them," the court said. Petitioner Kamini Devi, 24 and Ajay Kumar, 28, fell in love around one year ago. In the present petition, filed by them together, they alleged that the respondents — family members of Kamini Devi — are forcibly trying to solemnize her marriage with an old person against her wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-nobody-can-interfere-if-two-adults-are-living-together/articleshow/79538134.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Iran supreme leader’s rep visits Kalbe Sadiq’s family||Lucknow: Representative of Iran’s supreme leader Ayatollah Khamenei in India, Maulana Mahdi Mahdavipour on Wednesday visited the family of Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq to condole the death of Islamic scholar and reformer. The 83-year-old cleric, who was suffering from colorectal cancer for last three years, died of pneumonia, septic shock and kidney failure on November 24. Sadiq was an Islamic scholar, an educationist and senior vice-president of the All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB). Maulana Mahdavipour had earlier visited the city on November 25, on the day of Sadiq’s burial, to lead the final prayer, Namaz-e-janaza. “The supreme leader of Iran is fully acquainted with the late cleric and is respectful of his role in creating unity and solidarity among religions and schools of Islamic thoughts in India,” said Mahdavipour. Mahdavipour delivered Ayatollah Khamenei’s condolence to Maulana Sadiq’s widow, his sons, daughter and son-in-law. “Ayatollah Khamenei always remembers him with goodness. He praises and is thankful for the vast efforts and services of late Maulana Syed Kalbe Sadiq in the field of education and establishing a network of schools and colleges,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iran-supreme-leaders-rep-visits-kalbe-sadiqs-family/articleshow/79538164.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP man says I quit, party says expelled||Chandigarh: Vijay Mandola, Jannayak Janata Party’s (JJP) president of Badhra constituency which is represented by Naina Chautala, on Wednesday announced to leave the party, accusing its leaders of ignoring workers and the ongoing agitation by farmers. However, JJP state president Nishan Singh said Mandola had been expelled from the outfit for anti-party activities. On his social media account, Mandola claimed that he had gone to meet JJP national president Ajay Singh Chautala at the latter’s Sirsa residence on Tuesday to discuss issues related to the ignorance of party workers in Badhra constituency and public sentiments about farmers’ protest. “However, I was asked to leave by Ajay Chautala in the presence of other party leaders. I immediately announced to leave the party, but later came to know through social media that the party had expelled me,” Mandola told TOI over phone. “Even otherwise, JJP’s foundation is on the basis of the support from farming community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-man-says-i-quit-party-says-expelled/articleshow/79537688.cms||---
December 3, 2020||Nagpur||NMC tracing lags as people don’t reveal contacts||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been able to trace less than half the high risk close contacts than what it had planned in the wake of possible resurgence of cases in the last nine days. On November 24, civic chief Radhkrishnan B had asked NMC health officials to trace and test at least 20 persons against each positive person in the city. On Wednesday, the NMC health department data revealed it was way behind the target and could only trace 20,504 close contacts though 2,284 active cases detected between November 24 and December 1. Going by the 1:20 ratio, 45,700 persons should have been traced and tested against 2,284 cases as part of the aggressive drive. It is also not clear how many of these 20,504 persons have been tested. Assuming all 20,504 traced persons were tested, the daily testing figures should have increased at least by 2,900. But, the daily testing data of entire district that includes number of samples collected from all NMC centres, doesn't indicate that additional persons are getting tested. In fact, the daily testing declined from 9,116 on Nov 26 to 4,972 on Dec 1. These include RTPCR and Rapid Antigen Test (RAT). Responding to TOI queries, Radhakrishnan said, “Contact tracing is a very unique exercise and it happens perfectly when there is complete cooperation from positive patients and their relatives. When they share proper information about their past few days activities. People are reluctant to divulge complete information,” he said. NMC officials engaged in the drive too confirmed to TOI that people were not cooperating and were concealing their details. The civic chief also said that getting a perfect high risk group of 20 was not always possible. “With home isolation advised now, we don’t pressure people to name contacts just to add numbers. Teams have been told to include names after due diligence. In isolated homes and nuclear families, you are not going to get 20 number. The number is not sacrosanct. We strive to reach out to maximum people. This is the situation all over the country,” he said. However, activists helping citizens in managing Covid are not impressed. Former corporator and NCP leader Vedprakash Arya said the planning was not proper. “NMC must send a team to Delhi to learn how Covid management is planned. NMC can start a Whatsapp helpline to share list of testing centres, availablity of hospital beds, and medicines. NMC doesn’t have sufficient manpower and resources,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-tracing-lags-as-people-dont-reveal-contacts/articleshow/79536263.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||LDA’s new units to meet green norms||Lucknow: Lucknow Development Authority will now be responsible for ensuring Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC) norms in commercial units as per the Energy Conservation Building Code laid by UP government in 2018. In this regard, LDA signed an MoU with Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable Energy Development Agency (UPNEDA) on Wednesday. District magistrate and acting vice-chairman of LDA, Abhishek Prakash, and UPNEDA director Bhawani Singh Khangarot were present on the occasion. Prakash said UPNEDA will help LDA to build commercial and housing units under the guidelines of Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE). “Units constructed under the BEE guidelines will help the owners to save upto 30% electricity consumed every month. Besides, rainwater harvesting plants will be installed in all the upcoming projects of LDA,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ldas-new-units-to-meet-green-norms/articleshow/79538207.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 3, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath first UP CM to strike BSE gong, says Ghaziabad civic bond next on listing||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attended the Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s listing ceremony at the Bombay Stock Exchange in Mumbai on Wednesday, where he announced that after Lucknow, it would be Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation's bond to list on the exchange, followed by others like Meerut, Varanasi, Agra, etc. While LMC became the first local body from North India -- and ninth in the country -- to get its bonds listed on the exchange, Yogi also became the first CM from UP to ring the BSE bell. Calling it the beginning of a new era, the CM said that the system would help in generating funds and bring about transparency and efficiency in the working of local bodies. “By population, UP is the largest state in the country and the third largest in terms of economy. UP’s ranking in ease of doing business improved from the 12th position to the second. This ranking is the result of the faith imposed by investors and industrialists in UP and the state is working towards fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat,” the CM said at the event in BSE. He spoke about the roughly 700 urban bodies in UP under which a population of approximately 8 crore resides. The listing of the Rs 200 crore municipal bonds on the stock exchange, he said, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, was a step in becoming atma nirbhar. “Not only will it help to meet the financial requirements for Lucknow’s basic development but it will also inspire other corporations to look at similar ways of raising funds, making them more efficient and transparent in their working,” he said. The bond was oversubscribed by 4.5 times due to the interest of investors, the CM said, saying it would encourage the government to perform better. Launched on November 13, 2020, the bonds closed at 8.5% coupon rate for 10 years. Yogi Adityanath added that small and medium scale industries were also being encouraged to list on BSE and the National Stock Exchange. So far, 15 units had listed on BSE to meet their financial requirements, the first such listing having taken place in 2018 right after the UP Investors’ Summit. “UP has provided a conducive environment for industry. Through an effective single window system, investors are finding it easy to get solutions to their problems and to navigate through various processes to invest in UP,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-first-up-cm-to-strike-bse-gong-says-gzb-civic-bond-next-on-listing/articleshow/79538090.cms||Neha Lalchandani
