December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru's party peeps enjoy an evening of Bollywood and brew||E-city was lit, last weekend, as Tanu and Ashley from the band Zehen performed live at one of the biggest breweries in the area. “BLR Brewing will be hosting more such musical nights in the future,” promised Prasanna Kumar, manging director of BLR Brewing. The audience was mesmerised with the grooviest Bollywood musical. “What a performance by the artistes. It was magical,” said one of the guests enjoying the weekend evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-party-peeps-enjoy-an-evening-of-bollywood-and-brew/articleshow/79547445.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: No arrests made in pro-terror graffiti case, says DCP||MANGALURU: Mangaluru police denied the arrest of an accused in connection with the provocative and pro-terror graffiti incidents. Early during the day, the news was abuzz that a youth, working as an executive for an online food delivery company and a native of Thirthahalli, was taken into custody for interrogation. Denying the arrest or taking any person into custody, Vinay A Gaonkar, DCP (crime and traffic), Mangaluru, told TOI that there is no major breakthrough in the case so far. “The technical team, cyber police and other special teams are continuing with the investigation,” he added. Meanwhile home minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was in the city to inaugurate the police quarters in Panambur, directed police to intensify night patrolling. He told reporters: “The government has considered the Mangaluru graffiti issue seriously. Police have made considerable progress. The government will ensure that no such incidents recur. I have directed the officials to take measures to prevent them in future. Officials of DCP rank will be heading night beats and 1,500 cameras will be fixed in city limits. Streetlights will be installed at all locations, especially dark spots,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dcp-no-arrests-made-in-pro-terror-graffiti-case/articleshow/79553730.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Realtor in soup for trying to kill wife in Bengaluru, hiding first wedlock||BENGALURU: A 30-year-old realtor, who was shooed away by his wife on the first day of their marriage for having come home drunk, has been arrested by HAL police on charges of attempting to kill her. He had married the 24-year-old woman by allegedly concealing his first marriage and claiming to be an engineer. Bharath Reddy of Annasandrapalya in LBS Nagar has been booked under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder), 420 (cheating) and 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty). His parents Lokesh Reddy and Komalamma are also facing harassment charges. The woman stated in her complaint to police that on the night of their wedding on October 29, Bharat Reddy reeked of alcohol and she asked him to stay away. “The next day, an enraged Komalamma accused me of being under an evil spell and sprayed ashes on me. From that day, Bharat would come home late at night in an inebriated condition. Bharat and Komalamma started experimenting black magic tricks, including smearing ashes on me, placing lemons under my pillow, mixing ash and hair along with vermilion in my food and inviting necromancers to check what’s gone wrong, among other weird things,” she alleged. According to her, Komalamma wanted her father to set up a business for Bharat and often asked her to make arrangements for that. One day, she heard Bharat saying that he had earlier married another woman named Jyoti. “On November 19, I overheard them discussing getting rid of me. They forced me into a room in the night. Bharat sprayed ashes on me while Komalamma tied lemons on my hands. When I resisted, they started beating me and I ran towards the window and screamed for help. Coincidentally, my sister and her husband arrived at the same time and were shocked to see me in that condition. Bharat however told them that I had lost my mental balance. My sister convinced them that she would take me to the doctor and brought me to her house,” the woman said. She was taken to a hospital where doctors treated for her injuries . HAL police said they are checking if Bharath, who reportedly received a costly car and 1kg of gold from the woman’s family, had demanded dowry at the time of marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/realtor-in-soup-for-trying-to-kill-wife-hiding-first-wedlock/articleshow/79554086.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||From hosting birthday parties to popping the question: Amid the pandemic, demand for private film screenings goes up||A heart-touching proposal, a perfect date, an intimate birthday get-together – in COVID time, when plans are restricted, if you want to make a grand gesture, a private movie screening for and with your loved ones may be a good idea. If you have missed watching movies on the big screen and are concerned about your safety, now you have an option to book the entire auditorium, as exhibitors – whose business have been badly hit in the pandemic – are luring movie buffs with private screenings, the cost of which can be lower than a restaurant outing. Safety and new ways to enjoy film on big screen: USPs of private screeningA major question that people have been asking is whether it’s safe to sit in an auditorium for several hours with strangers during the pandemic? As most aren’t comfortable with this idea yet, cinemas are offering private screenings. These screenings are not just for watching movies, but also a part of hosting birthdays, anniversaries, engagements, proposals and corporate meetings. Exhibitors insist that the reason they are promoting this is to ensure that people visit cinemas. For private screenings, cinemas follow the same 50% capacity rule and other SOPs. Gautam Dutta, CEO, PVR Cinemas, says, “The initial response in the last few days has been assuring and it’s gratifying to see people rejoicing the experience of watching cinema on the big screen, once again. Private screening as a concept has been introduced keeping guest safety in the forefront, while offering them new avenues to enjoy films on the big screen. We are committed to provide enhanced in-cinema safety to our viewers and we shall be diligent and relentless with our efforts in ensuring the same.” He says that bookings have gone up, and if this trend continues, they are expecting over 200 private screenings (nationally) within a week. Saurabh Varma, CMO, Inox Leisure, says, “We have had fan clubs hosting a special movie screening of their favourite stars. We are getting requests from hosting roka ceremonies, corporate bookings to even a couple watching a movie in the theatre alone.” SRK films preferred in private screeningsHow grand your surprise will be depends upon how well you script it. Cinemas are including every demand customers are making – from arranging cakes, showering rose petals, playing slide shows of pictures, making announcements, playing special songs on request and even rolling out a red carpet. Couples and families love this idea of seeing the videos and films on big screen. A couple who hosted a special screening for a pre-wedding shoot in Delhi, say, “We have spent four days doing a pre-wedding shoot and all our friends were so excited to see those photos, so we booked a cinema hall. Seeing those photos on big screen was totally worth it and we felt like movie stars.” A 25-year-old from west Delhi, whose family gave her a big surprise by screening 'Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge' in a cinema hall, shares, “It was the best birthday I ever had.” DDLJ is a popular choice in private showsCinemas have a list of films that can be chosen for private viewing and they say that Shah Rukh Khan’s films like 'Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge', 'Dil To Pagal Hai'' and Chak De!' India are some of the most preferred films. Besides, people also request for Hollywood releases that they’ve missed. Depending upon the city, the auditorium and its capacity, the whole experience will cost you between `2K and `5K, while in pre-pandemic days, it used to cost anywhere till `50K. Popcorn is a favourite even in private screeningsThe food menu is prepared according to the customers’ requests. However, exhibitors point out that most of the bookings have special requests for popcorn. Saurabh says, “People missed eating popcorn and watching a movie more than any other activity. And even though there are requests for cakes, popcorn still rules.” Yogesh Raizada, Corporate Head, Wave Cinemas, says, “We keep hearing questions like, ‘Will moviegoing survive the pandemic? Who wants to watch a movie in a cinema hall when people have the option to watch it at their homes?’ But then we see this craze for private screenings and people come and tell us how much they have missed coming to cinema halls. Our patrons say that they would rather prefer celebrating a birthday in a cinema hall than anywhere else because they believe cinemas are safer than any other place. With only close family members and friends (at private screenings), going to movies is preferred even in the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-hosting-birthday-parties-to-popping-the-question-amid-the-pandemic-demand-for-private-film-screenings-goes-up/articleshow/79549290.cms||Niharika Lal
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||#VaccineTourism: UK vaccination news leads to spurt in travel enquiries in city||On Wednesday, the UK became the first Western nation to approve a COVID-19 vaccine, the process of administering which will begin next week. According to reports, the country has bought 40 million doses of the vaccine that’s claimed to have 95% efficacy. The news has brought hope not just for the 6.8 million residents of the UK, but also people across the world, including Kolkata, especially those who can afford to travel to the European nation to take the shots. “After the news, we are being bombarded with calls, enquiring about the possibility of travelling to the UK for vaccination. Many here are just waiting for an announcement that the vaccine will also be offered to foreigners,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, eastern region, Travel Agents Federation of India. Just a matter of timeAccording to travel agents we spoke to, enquiries have started flooding in about travel packages to the UK and Russia. “People have already started asking for packages to London-Scotland, London-Ireland or Russia after the news. But it’s too early now, as we have to see how things develop. Getting visas might also be an issue. So, we have asked them to wait for a while. Actually, people are dying to travel and the news has come as a ray of hope for them,” said Usha Agarwal from a city travel agency. Travel agent Bilolaksha Das agreed that it’s too early to say anything concrete. “There have been enquiries about travelling to London, but we have to wait for a while before we can properly guide our clients,” he said. To this, travel agent Abhijit Dhar added that the news has suddenly turned Europe into everyone’s favourite destination. “Many clients are enquiring about travel options to London. Some want to go there for an early vaccination, some want to book for next year's summer holidays,” he said. Waiting in the wingsAs is evident from the number of enquiries travel agencies are getting, many city residents are keen to mix business and pleasure and travel to the UK as soon as possible. “I’m waiting to see how well the vaccine works. Moreover, there’s no clarity about tourists being able to opt for vaccination there. So I want to wait before taking a decision. And If I do fly to London, I’ll surely visit Scotland,” JP Roy, a city-based businessman, told us. Echoing similar plans, businessman Sanjay Chaubey said he, too, is waiting to see how well the vaccine works. “It also needs to be clear if tourists can receive shots too. If all boxes are ticked, I’d love to fly to London,” he said. For some, like actress Rukmini Maitra, the news has just lent wings to their wanderlust. “The news from the UK has come as a ray of happiness at the end of the tunnel. The world will open up again and since I’m a traveller at heart, I would love to travel to London — not just for the vaccine but also to quench my thirst for travel. I am dying to get back on a long-haul flight,” she said with a smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccinetourism-uk-vaccination-news-leads-to-spurt-in-travel-enquiries-in-city/articleshow/79549701.cms||Ruman Ganguly
December 4, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers' stir: Kids attend e-classes at protest site, with a little help from locals||TIKRI: In the past nine months since the lockdown, Jarnail Singh, a nine-year-old who studies in the fourth standard, has managed to adapt to the new normal of e-learning. Now, he is faced with another challenge. In the past week, while timings for his online classes have remained the same — 9.30am to 1pm — the venue has shifted, from his home in Faridkot to a protest site at the Delhi-Haryana border, where his parents have gathered with thousands of others. Jarnail, a student of Guru Gobind Singh International School in Faridkot, said he is ready for the long haul. “I have been attending my classes from here for the past five days. My teachers and classmates know that I am at the protest site and they have encouraged me to stay on. I am mentally prepared that we will be staying here for months, at least till the time my father gets what he has been fighting for,” said Jarnail, even as his two-year-old sister Ravi, who may be among the youngest at the site, is busy playing with her soft toy. Their mother, Jagroop Kaur, said they have been forced to move to the protest site together as a family as leaving two small children behind was not an option. “We have been staying here for around a week now and protecting the kids from the severe cold is a challenge. Earlier, going to the bathroom was difficult but now the locals have graciously allowed us to use theirs. My son is attending his classes from here and we will continue to stay here till our demands are met,” she said. Like Jarnail, Gurpreet Singh, another nine-year-old boy who hails from Fatehabad, is trying to attend as many online classes as he can. “It depends on the availability of a smartphone and whether it's charged,” he said. Gurpreet and the other children have been getting help from the local shopkeepers on Rohtak road, who are helping them charge their smartphones so that they don’t miss out on classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/kids-attend-e-classes-at-site-with-a-little-help-from-locals/articleshow/79555620.cms||Joel Joseph
December 4, 2020||India||In SC, Centre opposes lifetime poll ban on convicted politicians||NEW DELHI: The Union government has filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court opposing a PIL seeking lifetime ban on contesting elections on politicians convicted of serious offences as against the present stipulation of disqualifying the person from polls for a period of six years after serving the sentence. A bench headed by Justices N V Ramana had sought the Centre’s response to an application filed by advocate-petitioner Ashwini K Upadhyay seeking to amend relief sought in his pending PIL to include a request for banning convicted politicians for life from contesting elections. Upadhyay had sought parity between convicted politicians and government servants and asked why officials alone were disqualified for life from taking up government jobs once convicted for a criminal offence. In an affidavit, the law ministry’s legislative department said unlike government servants, “there are no specific service conditions laid down in respect of elected representatives, even though they are categorised as public servants. Elected representatives are bound by the oath that they have taken, to serve the citizens of their constituency in particular and the country in general”. Times ViewData released by the Association for Democratic Reforms shows that 34% of Lok Sabha MPs in 2014 had criminal charges against them. In 2019, it jumped to 43%. It is a similar story in most state assemblies. Yet the irony is that only a handful of politicians are convicted. In this backdrop, letting even those convicted continue in public life after a break may not be sufficient to clean up the polity. A life ban on contesting elections for those convicted of crimes with a maximum sentence of two years or more makes sense.It further said, “Their conduct is bound by propriety, good conscience and they are expected to generally work in the interest of the nation. They are already bound by disqualification in terms of Representation of the People Act as well as various directions and precedents as laid down by the SC from time to time.” The Centre said the law applied with equal rigour to both citizens and elected representatives. It quoted the SC judgment in the Public Interest Foundation case in 2019, where it had said, “Though criminalisation of politics is a bitter manifest truth, which is a termite to the citadel of democracy, be that as it may, the court cannot make the law.” Interestingly, the Election Commission had a few years ago supported life ban on elected representatives from contesting polls if they were convicted and sentenced for serious offences. Watch In SC, Centre opposes lifetime poll ban on convicted politicians||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-sc-centre-opposes-lifetime-poll-ban-on-convicted-politicians/articleshow/79555752.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Lucknow cops stop interfaith wedding just before rituals||LUCKNOW: Citing violation of the new UP ordinance on religious conversion, an interfaith wedding in Lucknow was stopped by city police on Wednesday evening just as the Hindu bride and Muslim groom were to be joined in wedlock in a ceremony involving rituals of both religions. The police intervened in the wedding of chemistry postgraduate Raina Gupta (22) and pharmacist Mohammad Asif (24) on the basis of information provided by the district Hindu Mahasabha chief. No FIR was lodged as both families agreed to postpone the wedding till they received the DM’s permission, as mandated by law. The earliest that Raina and Asif can marry is two months from the date of serving notice. "When the police reached the venue (in Lucknow's Para neighbourhood), they found that preparations were under way to conduct marriage rituals as per Hindu traditions. Later, the wedding was to be solemnised through Muslim rituals. The wedding was taking place with the consent of both families, but the planned religious ceremonies couldn't have been conducted without conversion," said additional DCP (South Zone) Suresh Chandra Rawat. Read AlsoUP to scrap 44-yr-old scheme that rewards interfaith marriageThe Uttar Pradesh govt is planning to withdraw a scheme that has incentivised interfaith marriage for 44 years. The Intercaste &amp; Interfaith Marriage Incentive Scheme has been in place since 1976, initiated by the national integration department in the state. In UP, 11 interfaith couples wereTriloki Singh, station house officer of Para police station, said Hindu Mahasabha district president Brijesh Shukla had submitted information about the wedding in writing. Times ViewThe case is a perfect example of the absurdity of the new law. In this case, neither the couple nor their families seem to have any objection to the marriage. But under the new law, being an inter-faith marriage, they are bound to give two months notice or be in contravention of the law. Indeed, this effectively means there can be no inter-faith marriage in the state for the next two months. The best way of avoiding such absurdities is to abolish the law.Additional DCP Rawat said the marriage was stopped in accordance with Sections 3 and 8 (clause two) of the recently promulgated Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which states that nobody should convert or attempt to convert directly or otherwise any person from one religion to another "by use or any practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage". Abetment, convincing or conspiring to carry out such conversion is also punishable under the new law. Read AlsoFive interfaith couples tell their storyHindu-Muslim couples in Uttar Pradesh vindicated by Allahabad HC verdict, but wary of state interventionVijay Gupta, the bride’s father, told TOI that there was no forced religious conversion for the marriage and that both families had unconditionally given their consent to the union. "I was unaware, until the police told us, that even after consent from all the parties, an interfaith marriage can be held only with the district magistrate's approval," he said. "I will comply with the police’s directive and seek the DM's permission before solemnising the marriage." The groom’s family declined to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lucknow-cops-stop-interfaith-wedding-just-before-rituals/articleshow/79555793.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
December 4, 2020||India||Stick to bilateral pacts on LAC: India to China||NEW DELHI: Following the assertion by a US panel that China planned the violent Galwan face-off, India on Thursday again underlined the significance of all bilateral agreements and protocols, including the agreements of 1993 and 1996, saying the core issue is the need for both India and China to follow these for maintenance of peace and tranquility along the LAC. The government also recalled that India had told China days after the June 15 Galwan clashes that it was a pre-meditated and planned attack by Chinese troops. With the LAC situation still unresolved, India also reiterated that the two countries had agreed to have another round of meeting between the senior commanders at the right time. The US Economic and Security Review Commission, in a report to US Congress, had accused China of ramping up its “coercion campaign” against neighbours and planning the Galwan clashes, including the possibility for fatalities. Asked about the report, MEA recalled its statement after the conversation between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on June 17, two days after the clashes that saw 20 Indian soldiers laying down their lives while protecting India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. According to the statement, Jaishankar had conveyed to Wang that despite the two sides having reached an agreement for disengagement and de-escalation, the Chinese took pre-meditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties. It reflected an intent to change the facts on ground in violation of all our agreements to not change the status quo, it said. Jaishankar had also called for troops of both sides to abide by the bilateral agreements and protocols “I would stress that the core issue remains that both sides need to strictly follow the various bilateral agreements and protocols in their entirety, including the 1993 and 1996 agreement on maintenance of peace and tranquility along the LAC in the border areas," said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, recalling India's statement of June 17. The agreements, as the official said, require that there should not be amassing of troops, that each side should strictly abide by and respect the LAC and and not take any unilateral action to alter it. On the unresolved LAC stand-off, the government said the two sides continued to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels with the objective of ensuring complete disengagement at all friction points along the LAC in the western sector and full restoration of peace and tranquility. "Both sides have agreed to have another round of senior commanders meeting at an appropriate time," said the spokesperson. Watch Stick to bilateral pacts on LAC, says India to China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stick-to-bilateral-pacts-on-lac-india-to-china/articleshow/79555857.cms||Sachin Parashar
December 4, 2020||Business||RBI puts curbs on HDFC’s business after e-banking outages||MUMBAI: In an unprecedented move, the Reserve Bank of India has directed HDFC Bank to stop launches of new digital business activity and not to add new credit card customers following repeated outages in its electronic banking services. The regulator has also ordered the board of the country’s largest private lender to examine the lapses and fix accountability. Incidentally, this happened on a day when SBI’s mobile banking app YONO too faced downtime. The action against HDFC Bank is the first time that the central bank has sought to penalise a bank by restricting business, rather than imposing a financial penalty, which is often a small amount. This is seen as an indication that RBI has taken serious cognisance of the outage of services at HDFC Bank, which accounts for a third of the country’s payments and has been classified as a systemically-important bank or one that is “too big to fail”. The directive will impact the bank’s ability to expand the scope of self-service options to customers and put brakes on its credit card expansion. The bank’s new MD and CEO Sashi Jagdishan apologised to customers and said that the private player has planned initiatives to improve its front-end digital experience, digital origination, straight through processing and the next generation of mobile and internet banking. Jagdishan said the bank will launch APIs-based banking after approval and clearance from the regulator. HDFC Bank informed the stock exchanges on Wednesday that the order from the RBI was issued on December 2, 2020, and was in response to outages in the bank’s internet banking/mobile banking/ payment utilities over the past two years. The most recent outage took place on November 21, when several customers could not access digital banking services. The bank blamed this on a power failure in its primary data centre. The bank’s group head of IT and CIO, Munish Mittal, had put in his papers in July 2020. Last month, the bank had named Ramesh Lakshminarayanan of Crisil as its new CIO. Although HDFC Bank has said that the problem was a one-off issue, customers have been taking to the social media to complain against an issue with server delays with regard to receipt of one-time password and authorisation of transactions. In a statement, HDFC Bank said it has taken several measures to fortify its IT systems and will continue to move swiftly to close out the balance and to engage with the regulator in this regard. “The bank has endeavoured to provide seamless banking services to its customers. The bank has been taking conscious, concrete steps to remedy the recent outages on its digital banking channels and assures its customers that it expects the current supervisory actions will have no impact on its existing credit cards, digital banking channels and existing operations. The bank believes that these measures will not materially impact its overall business,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-puts-curbs-on-hdfcs-business-after-e-banking-outages/articleshow/79556078.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Covid recoveries top 90 lakh, highest in world||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday became the first country to log 90 lakh (nine million) recoveries from the Covid-19 infection. The milestone was crossed on Thursday, when more than 43,000 patients were declared cured of the virus in the country, even as the count of fresh cases continued its gradual slide. India has the highest number of recovered patients of Covid-19 in the world, accounting for 94% of all cases recorded in the country till date. The US, with 14.3 million cases as opposed to India's 9.5 million, has recorded fewer recoveries at 8.4 million. Meanwhile, 36,746 new cases were recorded on Thursday, around 1,000 less than the previous day’s tally. For fifth day in a row, daily Covid cases stay below 40,000While India has recorded the second highest number of Covid cases so far, it’s tally of active cases now stands at fewer than 4.2 lakh, the 7th highest in the world below the US, France, Italy, Brazil, Belgium and Russia, as per the worldometers.info website. Daily cases have remained below the 40,000 mark for five days running. While the count of fresh cases remains high in several states, no sustained surge in the pandemic has been visible so far this week. However, the daily Covid death toll has been nudging up gradually. On Thursday, 542 fatalities were reported in the country, up from 533 on the previous day. While 445 deaths were recorded on Sunday, the number went up to 486 on Monday and 500 on Tuesday. The rise mainly appears to be linked to the increased death toll being reported from Maharashtra, although states such as Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have also seen a spike in fatalities. Delhi, too, continued to report a high number of fatalities, with 82 recorded on Thursday, followed by Bengal (49), Haryana (32), Kerala and Uttar Pradesh (31 each), and Chhattisgarh (22). Most of the worst-hit states too reported a slight dip in new cases on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-recoveries-top-90-lakh-highest-in-world/articleshow/79556172.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Cyclones can stall last sat launch of this year; Chandrayaan-3 cams will provide live feed during final descent: Isro chief||NEW DELHI: The Covid pandemic-triggered restrictions hindered satellite missions throughout 2020. Even the year-end launch is not trouble-free. Forecast about a series of cyclones in south India is putting Isro’s last satellite launch of this year in jeopardy as the launch of PSLV-C50 rocket, which is supposed to lift off a geo communication satellite codenamed CMS-01 this month, “may be deferred to next year if adverse weather conditions at the Sriharikota launch centre continue”, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chairman K Sivan said. Giving an extensive interview to TOI on satellite launches and space developments, the Isro chairman said, “We have not been able to fix the launch date as 2-3 cyclones are expected in coming days and they may hit the Sriharikota launch centre (an island off Andhra Pradesh). One cyclone is over, second cyclone Burevi is nearby and thereafter one more cyclone is expected. We don’t want to expose the launch vehicle at the second launchpad to strong winds as adverse conditions can affect the launcher. Therefore, we will launch only when the weather is normal.” He said the first test-launch of Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV) or mini-PSLV and a technology demonstrator test of the reusable launch vehicle (RLV) will also happen next year. Sivan also said that “the pandemic-triggered Budget restrictions have affected Isro’s launch operations and that missions next year will be launched only on priority basis”. While congratulating China for the successful moon landing of Chang’e-5 lunarcraft, Sivan told TOI, “As a technical person, let me congratulate and compliment China for their effort to bring lunar rocks to Earth. From media reports, I have come to know that China will share lunar samples with the scientific community across the globe. It will be a good thing.” On why it took seven weeks to Chandrayaan-2 but just 4-5 days to Chinese Chang’e-5 to reach Moon’s orbit from Earth, the Isro chief, “Considering the distance (3.84 lakh km) between the Earth and Moon, the travel days for a lunarcraft from Earth to Moon usually are four. Even Apollo and Russian missions in the 1960-70s took that much time. Before going to the gravity departing orbit, Chandrayaan-2 was put in the geostationary transfer orbit (GTO) for optimum utilisation of spacecraft fuel. If we also had a powerful rocket (like China’s), we could have injected our lunar probe directly into the lunar trajectory and that would have also taken Chandrayaan-2 just four days to reach the lunar orbit.” Sivan, who is also the secretary for the Department of Space, said the lander of the upcoming Chandrayaan-3 mission, like Chang’e-5, will also have hi-tech cameras that will give real-time live feed of the final descent and post-landing operations. “Last time too, we had planned a real-time feed of landing. But when Vikram lander was about to land, the mission terminated. But this time in Chandrayaan-3, we will have this technology in a more detailed way,” the Isro chief said. He said Chandrayaan-3 will be launched in late 2021 or early 2022. A joint mission with Japanese space agency JAXA is also in the works but that mission is also specific to exploring the lunar surface, not about bringing lunar rocks back home. Sivan clarified that Isro has not made any concrete plan right now for launching a specific mission to bring lunar rocks. On the maiden human spaceflight mission or ‘Gaganyaan’, he said the four astronauts will complete their training in Russia in March and will then undergo further training in India. On the two unmanned missions before the manned mission that will carry humanoids (robots resembling humans), he said, “No deadline has been fixed. But we will target to launch them next year.” Whether Isro will be able to meet the August 2022 deadline for the Gaganyaan manned mission as fixed by PM Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech some years ago, the Isro chief said, “It is too early to say. Because of the lockdown, our entire schedule has been disturbed. But we are trying our best.” On space policies, Sivan said, “We have already put drafts of space communication policy and remote sensing policy on public domain to seek people’s opinion. We are currently working on the launch vehicle policy, space exploration policy and overall national policy. We are also receiving applications from the private sector (for accessing space infrastructure).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyclones-can-stall-last-sat-launch-of-this-year-chandrayaan-3-cams-will-provide-live-feed-during-final-descent-isro-chief/articleshow/79556264.cms||Surendra Singh
December 4, 2020||India||Couple take oath as judges of Madras High Court||CHENNAI: A married couple — Justice Murali Shankar Kuppuraju and Justice Thamilselvi T Valayapalayam — were sworn in as judges of the Madras high court on Thursday. It is only the second instance in the history of Indian judiciary of husband and wife taking oath together. The first such couple was Justices Vivek Puri and Archana Puri, who were sworn in as judges of the Punjab & Haryana HC last year. In yet another feat, the Madras HC became the first high court with the most women judges — 13 — when four more joined the bench on Thursday. Besides the couple, eight others — G Chandrasekharan, A A Nakkiran, Sivagnanam Veerasamy, Ilangovan Ganesan, Ananthi Subramanian, Kannammal Shanmuga Sundaram, Sathikumar Sukumara Kurup and Manjula Ramaraju — took oath. Of the new appointees, Justices Murali Shankar and Thamilselvi are the youngest and they would serve the high court for 10 years if appointed as permanent judges after two years. All the 10 judges have been elevated from the subordinate judiciary of Tamil Nadu. With the appointments, the sitting strength of judges in the court has increased from 53 to 63, as against the sanctioned strength of 75.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/couple-take-oath-as-judges-of-madras-hc/articleshow/79556323.cms||Suresh Kumar
December 4, 2020||India||AstraZeneca to sell 2.5 billion shots to 17 countries||NEW DELHI: The latest analysis of contracts by Duke University, based on publicly available data, puts the Oxford-Astra-Zeneca candidate on the top of the table, with 17 countries signing deals to procure 2.5 billion doses, reports Chethan Kumar. This is followed by the US’s Novavax, which had deals for 1.3 billion doses of its vaccine as of November 30, while Sanofi-GSK has deals for 732 million doses. The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, which this week became the first in the world to be approved for emergency use, has deals for 646 million doses. Overall, 19 vaccine makers have confirmed deals for 7.1 billion doses cumulatively. ‘High-income nations hold a confirmed 3.8bn vaccine doses’An analysis by Duke University’s “Launch and Scale Speedometer”, which is updated every two weeks, shows India has made deals for three global vaccine candidates upon them being ready and certified for use, while the EU and the US have struck deals with six vaccine developers. Canada and the UK have each struck deals for over 350 million doses of vaccines each from seven developers. India will be getting 500 million doses of the Oxford University vaccine from AstraZeneca, one billion from the US company Novavax Inc and 100 million doses from Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, which has developed Sputnik-V. While Pune-based Serum India of Institute will manufacture the Oxford vaccine, Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has tied up for trials of Sputnik-V in India. Besides these, a domestic vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech entered Phase 3 trials on Wednesday. “Given that all candidates showing promise need two doses of vaccination, theoretically India would need 2.6 billion doses to cover its population. But it isn’t practical to inoculate the whole country and, also, it isn’t required as once we cover over 60% of the population, we’ll see the disease being controlled,” said Dr V Ravi, member of the expert committee on the Covid vaccine. “So, I think commitments of these many doses should suffice...” “High-income countries currently hold a confirmed 3.8 billion doses, upper-middle-income countries hold 829 million doses, and lower-middle-income countries hold more than 1.7 billion doses. Many high-income countries have hedged their bets by advance purchasing enough doses to vaccinate their population several times over,” the analysis reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/astrazeneca-to-sell-2-5-billion-shots-to-17-countries/articleshow/79556348.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 4, 2020||India||Vaccine yet to come but VIP jostling starts||Pune: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said that no politician or influential person would be entertained as a priority recipient to get the first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine. The health minister’s comment comes in the wake of complaints from some bureaucrats about pressure from some influential politicians and senior police officers for their inclu-sion among the first recipients of the vaccine. “I have, however, not received any such complaint. I have sent a message to all district authorities to directly reach out to me if they get such requests,” the minister told TOI on Wednesday. “The government is preparing the list of frontline workers and only they will get the first shots. The final list should be ready by next week,” he said. A senior official in Pune said some politicians were regularly in touch for updates on vaccine trials, but no one has so far volunteered to be a candidate for the trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-yet-to-come-but-vip-jostling-starts/articleshow/79556430.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur’s second 500+ case rise in 3 days of December||NAGPUR: With 536 new cases on Thursday, Nagpur accounted for more than half of the new Covid-19 cases reported in Vidarbha on December 3. This was the second 500+ spike in Covid-19 cases reported in Nagpur in three days of December. At 1,121, Vidarbha also reported the highest number of new cases in December. With 23 deaths in a day, Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll reached 6,110. Nagpur also accounted for 15 out of the 23 deaths reported on Thursday. Of the 15 deaths, seven are from Nagpur city which is worrisome for the authorities. Wardha (2), Chandrapur (2), Gondia (1) and Gadchiroli (1) in Nagpur division also reported Covid-19 deaths, while Akola and Amravati reported 1 Covid death each in Amravati division. This means, 21 out of 23 Covid-19 deaths reported on Thursday were from Nagpur division alone. Case fatality rate of Vidarbha continued to be at 2.7%, which is higher than state’s average of 2.6% and national average of 1.5%. New cases came from Nagpur (536), Chandrapur (172), Amravati (70), Gadchiroli (67), Wardha (62), Gondia (47), Bhandara (45), Buldhana (44), Akola (39), Yavatmal (25), and Washim (14). With this, Vidarbha’s total caseload reached 230273. On the other hand, 1,141 patients recovered from Covid-19 in a day. These include Nagpur (307), Chandrapur (169), Bhandara (135), Gadchiroli (114), Gondia (105), Amravati (79), Yavatmal (76), Wardha (59), Akola (49), Buldhana (26), and Washim (22). In all, 2,12,034 have recovered by now, pegging the region’s recovery rate at 92%. Chandrapur: The district’s Covid caseload rose to 20,455 with detection of 172 new patients on Thursday. There were 169 discharges during the day. With two more deaths in the day, the toll has climbed to 310. Total recoveries now stand at 18,235, leaving 1,910 patients under treatment. Amravati: The addition of 70 new cases and one Covid death took the caseload to 18,068 and toll to 380 on Wednesday. The district also saw 79 patients staging recovery to take the total recovery count to 17,199. This left 489 active cases under treatment. Yavatmal: There were no Covid deaths in Yavatmal on Thursday. Currently there are 418 active positive patients in the Covid-19 care centres. 349 test reports were received, of which 25 were positive. 11,631 have tested positive so far, of whom 10,839 have recovered. 76 patients were discharged on Thursday. Wardha: With two deaths due to coronavirus and 62 new cases on Thursday, the district crossed the eight thousand-mark in Covid cases, taking the total to 8,019 and with 59 recoveries, Wardha has recorded 7,278 recoveries so far. Two women from the city (aged 66 and 80) died during treatment, taking the total number of deaths in the district to 253. 488 patients are undergoing treatment. Out of the 818 test reports on Thursday, 62 (37 men and 25 women) tested positive, while the cases were reported from Wardha (44), Hinganghat (8), Karanja (7), Deoli (2) and Samudrapur (1). Bhandara: 135 patients recovered, while only 45 new patients were detected. The district now has 10,945 total Covid cases. These include 9,836 recoveries and 257 deaths. No death was reported on Thursday. Now, the district has 852 patients under treatment. Gondia: Less than 50 new corona cases were found in Gondia district for the second consecutive day. Also, 105 patients defeated coronavirus. A 62-year-old patient died due to the virus. RT-PCR reports of 211 samples are still awaited. Total caseload of Gondia district reached 12,595 including 11,597 patients recovering from the infection and 162 deaths reported till date. Now, 836 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: While 67 new patients were detected, 114 recovered from Covid-19 on Thursday in Gadchiroli. A 62-year-old from Aheri died during treatment, which increased the death toll to 84. Now, the district has 8,108 total cases — 7,562 of them recovered and 462 still under treatment. Akola: Death of an 89-year-old man suffering from multiple illnesses along with Covid-19 took Akola district’s death toll to 296 on Thursday. The district reported 39 new cases and 49 recoveries. This took the total Covid-19 caseload of Akola to 9,530 including 8,662 recoveries. Now, 572 patients are under treatment in district. Buldhana: The district received 450 reports, of which 44 tested positive. This took the total number of cases in Buldhana to 11,433. On the other hand, 26 patients recovered in a day, taking total number of recovered patients to 10,860. No death was reported in Buldhana for the 11th day in a row. Death toll remained unchanged at 136. Now, 437 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 14 new cases and 22 recoveries in a day. No death was reported. The number of total Covid-19 cases reached 6,220 with 5,829 recoveries and 148 deaths till date. 243 patients are under treatment in Washim, which is the least in Vidarbha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpurs-second-500-case-rise-in-3-days-of-december/articleshow/79555074.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 4, 2020||Business||Rising premiums may hit health insurance growth||MUMBAI: The record growth seen by health insurance segments risks tapering off with reducing affordability. The growth in health insurance has been largely due to increase in premium as there has been a steady increase in average premium per policy in recent years, according to insurance consulting firm Milliman. Health insurance premium has more than doubled from Rs 24,448 crore in FY15 to Rs 51,636 crore in FY20. According to Irdai’s annual report, the number of people covered under health insurance shrunk from 48.2 crore in FY18 to 47.2 in FY19. The numbers for FY20 have not yet been released. Between FY16 and FY19 when the total premium rose 86%, the average premium per person rose 40% In the current fiscal too, health insurance has been the fastest-growing segment. This is also because many insurance companies have revised their premium tables. According to Joanne Buckle, the lead consultant in Milliman’ healthcare practice, the challenge is to make the health insurance business sustainable in the backdrop of high medical inflation. She adds that growth tends to level off when the average premium keeps increasing year-on-year. In India, another reason for the premium to rise this year is an effort by the regulator to make health insurance more comprehensive by standardising the exclusions. While this has made the coverage more inclusive, the trade-off has been on reduced affordability. Policyholders have seen their premium bills rise in double digits for the same sum insured. According to Buckle, if the insurance cover is not comprehensive enough, it would mean that policyholders pay out of their pocket for some claims. Insurers should rather control the cost of claims to ensure that the business growth is sustainable. Non-life companies do not have much headroom to reduce cost of cover as most of them are already experiencing a combined ratio of over 100. A combined ratio is the ratio of claims, commission, and operating costs to the premium. Post-Covid, the health segment has grown by more than 15% between April and September 2020 compared to the year-ago period. Most major players registered a healthy growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rising-premiums-may-hit-health-insurance-growth/articleshow/79554466.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 4, 2020||Patna||571 fresh Covid cases take Bihar’s tally to 2,37,349||PATNA: The state’s Covid caseload increased to 2,37,349 on Thursday with 571 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Officially, seven more people succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s toll to 1,281. However, with 2,30,503 people recovering from the virus in the state so far, active cases stood at 5,563 on Thursday. As per the state health department, the virus claimed lives of three more people in Patna in the last 24 hours. With this, the district’s Covid toll has risen to 332. Gaya recorded two deaths and Siwan and East Champaran one death each on Thursday. At AIIMS-Patna, two more Covid patients have dies in the last 24 hours, including two from state capital – a 62-year-old woman from Jagdeopath locality and a 68-year-old man from Chauhatta. Other deceased were a 60-year-old man from Madhepura, a 62-year-old woman from Gaya and an 88-year-old man from Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 19 patients were admitted to the hospital and 10 discharged on Thursday. Those admitted included people from different localities of Patna like Jamunapath, Kankarbagh, Rupaspur, Ashok Nagar, Bhagwat Nagar and Sheikhpura Mor. Of 571 new Covid-19 cases, Patna accounted for 187. With this, the district’s tally has risen to 42,735. However, with 40,385 recoveries and 332 deaths, there are 2,018 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Saharsa recorded 33 fresh cases, Muzaffarpur 32, Supaul 24, Aurangabad 19, Jehanabad 17, Bhagalpur 16 and Saran 15. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 502 people have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.12%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/571-fresh-covid-cases-take-bihars-tally-to-237349/articleshow/79552622.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Woman delivers baby at Danapur station||PATNA: One Geeta Yadav, a resident of Jehanabad, gave birth to a girl on the premises of the Danapur station on Wednesday. She was later taken to the Danapur Railway Hospital with the help of Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel. “After delivering the baby at the station, the woman was bleeding profusely due to which she received medical assistance and post-delivery care. The duo’s condition is stable now,” the hospital’s chief medical superintendent, Dr R K Verma, told this newspaper on Thursday. Danapur public relations officer Prithvi Singh said Geeta, who was travelling by the Secunderabad-Danapur Clone Humsafar Special (02787), experienced labour pain when she, her father and minor daughter stepped out of the train and moved to the station’s circulating area for boarding a vehicle. “The ‘Meri Saheli’ squad, comprising RPF women personnel, came to the woman’s rescue,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-delivers-baby-at-danapur-station/articleshow/79552735.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Surat||Pvt insurer told to pay claim for damage to parked vehicle||Surat: The Navsari District Consumer Redressal Dispute Commission has ordered ICICI Lombard GIC Ltd to reimburse claim amount of Rs 1.35 lakh to a vehicle owner whose pick-up van parked by the roadside was damaged after a bus rammed it on Navsari-Gandevi Road three years ago.The private insurer had rejected the claim put up by Raysing Luhar, a resident of Adada village, on the grounds that his Mahindra’s Bolero Maxi truck was plying on the road and that it did not have the mandatory fitness certificate.Luhar had purchased the insurance policy for the period between March 18, 2017 and March 17, 2018. The vehicle was valued at Rs 3.50 lakh then.On July 13, 2017, a state transport bus rammed his vehicle that was parked by the roadside. The estimated damage to the vehicle was Rs 1.35 lakh and Luhar also informed the company about the accident. On August 25, 2017, the company rejected the claim and contended that the vehicle was not in the owner’s premises when the accident occurred and that it was playing on the road.During the course of the hearing, Luhar’s lawyer died and he himself did not appear. So, the court decided the case on basis of the facts presented before it.“Going through the facts, it is proved that the vehicle was not plying on the road (for which a fitness certificate is mandatory), but parked outside the road when the bus rammed on it from behind. Therefore, the company cannot deny the claim based on absence of fitness certificate,” the commission observed.The insurer was ordered to pay a claim amount of Rs 1.35 lakh with seven percent interest effective from December 21, 2017 and Rs 2,500 for the mental stress and complaint fee to Luhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pvt-insurer-told-to-pay-claim-for-damage-to-parked-vehicle/articleshow/79552937.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||‘It was wrong to cap Covid therapy cost’||Rajesh.C@timesgroup.com Apollo Hospitals, India’s largest hospital chain, suffered its first-ever quarterly loss in April-June this year. The man who built the network of hospitals from the ground up, Dr Prathap C Reddy, shares his views on the pandemic and how healthcare in India has risen to the challenge… How far has business returned to normal? The problem was that people just stopped visiting hospitals for treatment of their health issues completely. Our occupancy levels crashed to just 8%. We have now slowly moved to 60% for non-Covid and another 20% of beds are for Covid. What were the challenges that you faced? Since we had the digital architecture, we were ready on Day 1. We increased teleconsultations and started sharing the Red Book of dos and don’ts across the network. The government imposing caps on treatment cost for Covid was not correct. Hotels are allowed to charge anything for a cup of coffee, depending on their ratings. We are talking of health and not coffee. Today, it costs a lot to offer secure healthcare. I have a responsibility to protect my doctors and patients and imposing restrictions was not the correct move. What changes are you seeing in healthcare? In a post-Covid world, delivery of healthcare will be very different. Healthcare will have to be delivered for simple issues and a hybrid model of daycare centres, hospitals and home healthcare will come into force. We are already witnessing early signs of it. What did the pandemic teach you and how did your staff deal with it? When people were scared and locked inside their homes, my doctors and nurses did a splendid job of delivering quality healthcare right through the crisis. We continue to do it. We paid some special bonus to some of them. They showed how we can manage the crisis and bring back public confidence. What do you see in the post-pandemic world? We will see a lot of artificial intelligence (AI) in healthcare. Coupled with digitisation of health and high-speed data, healthcare delivery will be very different, And, we are ready for the vaccine delivery. Our pharmacy and supply chain covers more than 40,000 pharmacies, including a cold storage chain network to store vaccines — we are ready to administer a million vaccinations a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/it-was-wrong-to-cap-covid-therapy-cost/articleshow/79554062.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 4, 2020||Business||Retail stores double up as fulfilment centres||Chennai: As the pandemic accelerates the online shopping habit, retail stores at high streets and in malls are doubling up as e-commerce fulfilment centres.With footfalls still low, retail stores are increasingly operating as ‘micro-fulfilment’ centres servicing click-and-collect style purchases and also acting as hub for online orders.This is aided by inventory management tools of new-age tech startups and is a way to optimize the real estate cost and speed up the picking and delivery process, analysts said. This helps in express deliveries that otherwise require a high infrastructure set up, they added. Avenue Supermarts, which owns and operates supermarket chain DMart, for instance, has closed two of its retail stores in Mumbai and converted them into fulfilment centres. “Both these locations have an alternate DMart store within 4 kilometers,” the company said announcing its earnings. Fashion apparel brand Spykar, which sells online through various portals including Tata Cliq , Amazon, Flipkart and its own site, is fulfilling “about 90%” of these requirements from their exclusive brand stores. “Store are being multi-purposed for the same,” a spokesperson said. Subodh Mehta, senior VP (B2C), Godrej Interio, said the furniture retailer has large fulfilment infrastructure available pan India, but are also using their stores. “The click-and-collect and pick type of concepts are relevant for our smaller items only,” he said. Fulfilment centres — facilities needed to pack and dispatch online orders- are currently the most sought-after in commercial real estate. Real estate consulting firm JLL said in a note that faster last-mile delivery focus of e-commerce is expected to boost a trend where conventional retail spaces are being considered for alternative use for warehousing.Pinaki Ranjan Mishra, partner and national leader, consumer products and retail, EY, said the need for space at stores will reduce as people take to online shopping, and hence they can become store cum fulfilment centres. “In the long- term companies need to re-look at their customer journeys and plan their store and fulfilment footprint accordingly,” he said. “We are seeing robust growth in store-based fulfilment across all our channels,” Farooq Adam — co-founder, Fynd, said. Fynd’s omnichannel platform makes the entire brand inventory available to customers online, and as the stock across multiple channels is in sync, stores are able to sell products to walk-in customers as usual. “Most large retail stores are in areas with a high density of population, and instead of setting up a warehouse in the outskirts they want to use the advantage of the stores’ proximity to the customers,” Krishna Khandelwal, chief business officer of logistics tech startup Locus, said. A large omni-channel retailer uses Locus to fulfil orders from their stores, and this trend has only increased due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retail-stores-double-up-as-fulfilment-centres/articleshow/79553254.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 4, 2020||Business||Suzuki changes product sharing plan with TKM||Chennai: There is a change in the product sharing plans between alliance partners Toyota and Suzuki in India. Maruti Suzuki has announced that it will ‘change the model to be manufactured’ by alliance partner Toyota Kirloskar Motor instead of the earlier decided Vitara Brezza. In a stock market filing on Thursday, Maruti said that while it had in March 2019 announced that its model Vitara Brezza would be made “at the existing plant of Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) starting year 2022” its board has now “approved to change the model to be manufactured at TKM from Vitara Brezza to another model.” While there are rumours in the auto industry that the new model could be the new Ciaz there is no confirmation from either Maruti or TKM on the matter. When contacted both Maruti and TKM spokespersons refused to comment. Currently the Suzuki Baleno and the Toyota Glanza — both on the same platform — are made in Maruti’s Sanand factory in Gujarat. The Suzuki Vitara Brezza and the Toyota Urban Cruiser — which are also on the same platform — are made in Maruti’s Gurgaon factory. According to the earlier announced global alliance plans between Suzuki and Toyota, from 2022 onwards Toyota’s Bengaluru plant was supposed to produce Vitara Brezza. Now it will produce another model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/suzuki-changes-product-sharing-plan-with-tkm/articleshow/79553427.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||One more files papers for RS seat||PATNA: The election of former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to the Rajya Sabha got a new twist when a retired engineer, Shyam Nandan Prasad, submitted his nomination papers as an independent. However, the papers submitted by him are incomplete. Owing to the twist, Modi’s election to the Rajya Sabha will not be deemed as unopposed. While Modi filed his nomination papers on Wednesday in the office of the Patna divisional commissioner, Prasad also did the same a few hours later, but before the elapse of the due time. Incidentally, the nomination papers filed by Prasad are not backed by a list of mandatory 10 proposer MLAs, be they from the NDA or the Grand Alliance. In the situation, Prasad will have to either withdraw his name from the fray or his claim for the seat will be rejected during the scrutiny of the papers on December 5. However, Modi will get the certificate of his election on December 7. Prasad, a retired engineer, is a resident of Pandarak in Patna district. Earlier, he had also contested the parliamentary election from the Patna Saheb seat in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-files-papers-for-rs-seat/articleshow/79552850.cms||Abhay Singh
December 4, 2020||Surat||Two Rajasthan gangsters held with fire arms||Surat: The Surat crime branch arrested two Rajasthan gangsters with two loaded country-made pistols from Jilani bridge road in the city on Thursday. The accused were identified as Govardhan Singh alias Pintu Singh Rajput (26) and Vanesinh Rajput (24). Police found them in possession of two country-made pistols and three live cartridges total worth Rs 20,300. The armed accused were planning to carry out a loot and had visit the city to identify the target, suspect police. Govardhan Singh is from Tavava village while Vanesinh is from Mandoli Nagar, both in Jalore district of Rajasthan. Investigation revealed that they are part of Arvind Bika and Anand Pal’s gang. Of the two, Vanesinh was involved in the October 24 loot attempt at the office of a diamond businessman in Mahidharpura. The accused were arrested in the past for their alleged involvement in 18 other offences registered in Gujarat and Rajasthan. They had fired 18 rounds at Ahmedabad crime branch officials in 2018 near Kathwada, Ahmedabad. “The accused were searching for a target to carry out loot. Since the loot in Mahidharpura was not fruitful, they were in search of some place where they can get a good amount of cash or valuables,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-rajasthan-gangsters-held-with-fire-arms/articleshow/79552823.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||RBI freeze on HDFC Bank may last 3-6 months: Experts||Mumbai: Analysts expect the ban on HDFC Bank’s new launches would be in force for three to six months — until it gets its house in order. This will slow down its credit card expansion and launch of digital initiatives, like a new portal that would have automated car loans. “We believe the ban could be in place for three-six months as the bank would at least take a quarter to resolve some of these issues and then invite the RBI for a review, after which the regulator may relax the restrictions, in our view,” said Suresh Ganapathy of Macquarie. Even a three-month freeze would have a significant impact on HDFC Bank’s credit card portfolio as last fiscal the bank added nearly 1.7 lakh cardholders every month. According to Ganapathy, the main problem here is that the bank is growing at a furious pace and its technology has not kept pace. “While the system loan growth has been at 5%, HDFC Bank has grown its loan book at a level of 16-17% — almost 3x that of the system, and this growth comes on the back of a 10% market share base. Additionally, they have a market share of 35-40% in payments,” he said. HDFC Bank runs on Oracle’s Flexcube core banking solution. According to Open Security Alliance COO Dinesh Bareja, HDFC Bank is a critical part of the country’s payments infrastructure given that a third of transactions are handled by it. “By virtue of being the top bank, their service is so critical that the bank requires to have a ‘five 9’ reliability — which is a 99.999% uptime. A data centre of a bank should not face issues because of a power outage as a lender of that size would have a power backup or disaster recovery that kicks in immediately,” he said. “A fundamental principle of network maintenance is that the institution learns from every incident and people be trained to respond to events like this,” said Bareja. According to Santanu Chakrabarti of Edelweiss Research, the disruption is because of legacy systems and will be short-lived. “It is obvious that the bank will have some elements of its digital backbone dependent on legacy IT systems. After all, one of the oft-touted competitive advantages for fintech and new lenders has been zero legacy tech. The incident is, therefore, not a reflection on its new leadership, but wages of approaching middle-age for the franchise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-freeze-on-hdfc-bank-may-last-3-6-months-experts/articleshow/79554412.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||SBI Cards stock rallies 5% on possible gains||Mumbai: HDFC Bank’s loss is expected to be a gain for its peers, at least that’s what Dalal Street investors think. A day after the RBI asked HDFC Bank to put on hold all its new digital banking initiatives and acquisition of credit card customers, the stock of SBI Cards & Payment Services jumped more than 5% to Rs 839 on the BSE. SBI Cards handles the credit card business of State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender, seen as a competitor to HDFC Bank’s cards businesses, along with ICICI Bank, Citibank and Axis Bank. HDFC Bank’s shares closed over 2% down on the BSE, on a day when the sensex and BSE’s finance index closed flat. HDFC Bank and SBI Cards are both part of BSE’s finance index.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-cards-stock-rallies-5-on-possible-gains/articleshow/79554377.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||303 societies in city contained||Ahmedabad: The city now has 303 societies that have been placed under micro containment. On Thursday, nine new societies with 175 families or 658 people, were micro contained. Of these, 150 families were from the western parts of the city. According to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials, post Diwali it is the western part of the city which has seen the maximum areas under micro containment. Of the 303 micro contained societies, over 60% of them are from the western parts of the city. According to the AMC, on Thursday morning, the city had 2,645 active cases. The west zone, comprising Ranip, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi and Usmanpura, had the highest active cases of 477 followed by north west zone, consisting of Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev and Ghatlodia, which accounted for 452 active cases. Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal and Sarkhej accounted for 439 cases. The numbers of active cases in other zones are: north (303), east (281), south (411) and central (282). The societies or that have fully or partially been contained are Nandanvan-I (Jodhpur), Sahahanand Upscale (Vastrapur), Arise Western and Silver Harmony (both in Gota), Murlidhar Complex (Ambawadi) and Sarthi complex and Shree Rang Earth (both in Chandkheda).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/303-societies-in-city-contained/articleshow/79555077.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath reviews MPSP celebration work at mutt, Gen Rawat to be chief guest||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reached Gorakhpur on Thursday afternoon and inspected the venue of week-long Maharana Pratap Siksha Parishad (MPSP) 88th Foundation Day celebrations at MP Inter College. He also visited the Gorakhnath temple and performed puja. Chief of Defence Staff (CSD) Gen Bipin Rawat also reached Gorakhpur on Thursday afternoon via a military aircraft. As per the information department, the inaugural programme of week-long 88th MPSP Foundation Day celebrations will start on Friday at 9.30 am and will end by 11.30 am. It will be presided over by the CM while Gen Rawat will be the chief guest. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will be the special guest. Big statues of ‘Hindu Surya’ Maharana Pratap, Brahammleen Mahant Digvijaynath and Brahammleen Mahant Avaidyanath will also be inaugurated on the occasion. The Deputy CM will have a meeting with Madhyamik/ high education department officials from 12 noon to 12.30 pm. Yogi will also inaugurate the Udyog Bhawan building at Gorakhpur Industrial Development Area (GIDA) between 3 and 4 pm on Friday and after that depart for Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-reviews-mpsp-88th-foundation-day-prep/articleshow/79553860.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 4, 2020||Patna||Will follow ‘Bihar model’ in other states: Dipankar Bhattacharya||PATNA: The ‘Bihar model’ that the CPI(ML) and other Left parties evolved to build a broad coalition against the BJP and its alliance partners in Bihar in the recently concluded assembly elections might be replicated in the poll-bound West Bengal, Assam and a few other states next year. The two-day CPI (ML) central committee meeting, which began here on Thursday, discussed this and other matters, including the review of the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections. The party also expressed solidarity with the agitating farmers of Punjab and Haryana and paid homage to the farmers who have lost their lives since November 26 when the indefinite stir began. “The coalition formation has not yet started in West Bengal, but the experience of the Left parties in the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections has thrown up some insights. This will be discussed when the coalition formation is formally started in West Bengal and Assam,” CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya told media persons on Wednesday, a day before the start of the party’s two-day central committee meeting here. In Bihar, the CPI(ML), CPI and CPM forged the grand alliance with the RJD and Congress to give credible fight to the resourceful NDA combine comprising the BJP and JD(U). It yielded 12 assembly seats to the CPI(ML) and two each to the CPI and CPI-M. “In West Bengal and Assam too, various types of movements have been going on for some time. We will try to build the coalition of the opposition parties there,” Bhattacharya had said. The CPI (ML) has also announced to conduct ‘serial agitations’ on tissues related to paddy procurement at the MSP rates and purchase of sugarcane from farmers at the rate of Rs 400 per quintal. It will also conduct the six-day ‘Samvidhan Bachao, Desh Bachao’ programme from December 6 to 11 to protest against alleged violations of constitutional provisions in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-follow-bihar-model-in-other-states-dipankar/articleshow/79552900.cms||Abhay Singh
December 4, 2020||Allahabad||‘No stalls, eateries or swings to be set up for Magh Mela’||PRAYAGRAJ: The annual Magh Mela would be more of a religious event this year as no recreational facilities and economic business activities will be permitted due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A decision in this regard was taken in the first meeting of the Magh Mela 2021 advisory committee held at collectorate on Wednesday evening. The meeting was chaired by district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami. Magh Mela 2021 would be organised at Sangam and banks of the Ganga from January 14 (Makar Sankranti) to March 11 (Mahashivratri). The committee decided that the market, called Meena Bazar, recreational facilities like swings or vendors selling toys, eatables etc., will not be permitted at Magh Mela 2021. Besides, no religious discourse by saints or cultural activities organised by government or private agencies in the mela area will be held. The DM also said that people coming to the mela area will have to show a maximum of three days old corona negative report. Besides, authorities will also prepare a database of Kalpvasis having comorbidities. The mela administration has also issued an appeal that the elderly and people suffering from chronic, serious ailments, should not opt for Kalpwas and avoid coming to Magh Mela. “I appeal to people suffering with diabetes, heart disease etc., not to plan Kalpwas and to stay home for their own good,” Goswami said. The advisory committee has also suggested that allotment of land in Mela ground should be done sparsely so that kalpwasis live at a distance from each other and physical distancing is not compromised. The DM said that in case someone tests positive in a camp then its each occupant would be quarantined for 15 days and their Kalpwas would be discontinued mid-way. The administration has also decided that it would make sure that people at mela do not crowd. The administration has requested the heads of acharyabada and dandibada to ensure that all seers coming to their camps undergo tests and allow them stay only after they submit a corona negative report of maximum of three days old. They should also keep a record of every visitor to their camp by noting down their Aadhaar number. The advisory committee meeting presided over by the DM was also attended by ADM City A K Kanaujia and city magistrates Rajneesh Mishra, Rajendra Paliwal, Chandranath Chakha, Phool Chandra Dubey besides other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-stalls-eateries-or-swings-to-be-set-up-for-magh-mela/articleshow/79552419.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks reply in rise of Covid cases in 5 districts||PRAYAGRAJ: Taking a serious note of the definite rise in the active cases of Covid-19 in Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Kanpur Nagar, the Allahabad high court on Thursday directed the heads of administration and police forces of these districts to file their respective affidavits mentioning therein the steps they are taking to restrain the hike in such cases. Hearing a PIL relating to Covid-19, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar further observed, “So far as the above-named districts are concerned, looking to the rise of the active Covid-19 cases, it is clear that the police was not taking as much action as was required to be taken. Even though the additional advocate general, representing the state government, informed that in the above districts, prohibitory orders under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code had been imposed, we find that there is a definite rise in the active cases of Covid-19 in the above districts and for this purpose, the state government along with the local administration may come up with such steps which would restrain the rise of the active Covid-19 cases.” Considering the suggestions given by the advocate commissioners and various members of the Bar, the court directed that in the districts, where the active cases are rising there should be 100 per cent wearing of masks by the residents of those districts. Secondly, the court directed the state government that the borders of these districts should be well-guarded so that people of the other districts and states, who were coming into the districts, may properly be checked. Thirdly, the court directed that the medical facility vis-a-vis checking and treatmet should be increased/ extended in the above-named districts. In this regard, the figures of testing and recovery rate may be provided to the court by December 10, 2020, which is the next date fixed by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-reply-in-rise-of-covid-cases-in-5-districts/articleshow/79552364.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: Health experts ring alarm bells over sale of ‘adulterated’ honey||PATNA: For many health-conscious people, the morning begins with a glass of lukewarm water, lemon juice and honey. Mothers often give honey to their children to boost their immunity, and for others, it is an alternative sweetener. Not surprisingly, the findings of an investigation carried out by the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment, which revealed the presence of Chinese sugar syrup in branded honey, has alarmed city health experts and consumers alike. Honey is being consumed in huge quantities amid the Covid pandemic as an immunity booster. Health experts have warned that taking sugar syrup thinking its honey can cause adverse impacts, especially for those battling obesity, diabetes, heart diseases, infections and inflammation. The probe by CSE, public interest research and advocacy group, revealed that 10 out of 13 brands were found adulterated with sugar syrup. While the honey samples passed the test done by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) to check for sugar content, they failed the magnetic resonance test used for testing honey for export. “I was shocked after reading the report. The brand I have been using for years also failed the test,” said Rajeev Nagar resident Aditi Dhar Mishra, adding, “Every day I have a glass of lukewarm water with honey and lemon to control my weight. In lemon tea also I put honey instead of sugar and advised the same to my elderly parents. But this report has made me worried. Almost every food is adulterated nowadays.” According to doctors, pure honey has innumerable benefits, including a healing property for diabetes patients. Sugar, on the contrary, can interfere with the way the body fights the disease. Bacteria and yeast feed on sugar. So excess glucose in the body causes these organisms to build up and cause infections. Dr KK Prasad, an Ayurveda specialist, counted several benefits of honey. “It is used as medicine and has immense benefits. But it has to be pure and not adulterated.” Dr Prasad said, adding, diabetic people should avoid branded honey because many in the market contain sugar. City-based clinical nutritionist Meghna Krishna also applauded the benefits of honey for being high in oxidants, antibacterial and immunity booster properties. “Sugar is a slow poison. We recommend jaggery or honey as its substitute. But if honey has sugar in it then it does not make sense using it,” Krishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-experts-ring-alarm-bells-over-sale-of-adulterated-honey/articleshow/79552784.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Miffed with SP’s cold response, Shivpal Yadav in talks with MIM, SBSP||LUCKNOW: ‘Disheartened’ by the response of the Samajwadi Party on the possibilities of a rapprochement, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party – Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav on Thursday said he was in talks with Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) for a tie-up for 2022 assembly polls. “Time and again I have called upon parties who have faith in socialist ideology to come together on a single platform to fight against the BJP. But it is unfortunate that there has been no response from the SP leadership on the issue,” Shivpal said, talking to the media in Lucknow on Thursday. “It is unfortunate that despite my clear stand, there has been no headway in talks with SP on this," he said. About SP chief and his nephew Akhilesh Yadav’s statement that he would not field any candidate against his uncle in assembly polls, Shivpal said: “Is it a joke?”. He said offering a single seat cannot lead to alliances or tie-ups. Shivpal, who is one of the founding members of the SP along with his elder brother Mulayam Singh Yadav, said his party was now in talks with Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM and Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party to enter into an alliance for the 2022 assembly polls. He said he has discussed electoral tie-up with AIMIM’s state president Shauquat Ali at a meeting recently. Sources in AIMIM said the two leaders discussed various aspects of a tie-up between the two parties and the outcome of the meeting was communicated to AIMIM national president Asaduddin Owaisi. When contacted, AIMIM UP Shauquat Ali chief said he met Shivpal at the latter's office and described the meeting as a 'courtesy call'. He refused to comment on the nature of deliberations that took place during the meeting. Ruling out a merger with SP as an ‘one-sided idea’, Shivpal said his PSP-L would contest with the help of regional outfits and take out a Rath Yatra to reach out to the people. From December 24, PSP-L will take to Padyatra across villages in Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/miffed-with-sps-cold-response-shivpal-in-talks-with-mim-sbsp/articleshow/79555917.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
December 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt tightens noose around cops for liquor law violation||PATNA: The state police headquarters is working to weed out the ‘black sheep’ in its departments, irrespective of their rank. Instructions have been issued to expedite departmental proceedings initiated against erring police personnel. Sharing official figures of the cops facing disciplinary action, ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Thursday said, “The police headquarters is committed to weed out corruption and remove such elements who earn disrepute to the state police force. The state government's zero tolerance policy on corruption has to be maintained at all costs.” Disciplinary and punitive action has been initiated against 644 police officials, including two IPS officers and 32 officers of the Bihar Police Service (BPS), this year so far. The services of 85 police personnel have been terminated after they were found to be guilty of the charges levelled against them. Authoritative sources said two IPS officers have already been awarded major punishments and four others are facing departmental proceedings. In addition, seven officers of Bihar Police Service (BPS) have been awarded severe punishment and 25 others are facing departmental proceedings. The development comes barely a week after CM Nitish Kumar warned police officials of stern disciplinary action for their failure to check the incidents of crime and implement the prohibition law properly. The main opposition RJD had raised the issues of corruption during the recently held session of the state legislature. Among 644 police officials facing action, 38 are gazetted officers while the remaining 606 are non-gazetted. These officials have been charged with negligence in implementing new excise and prohibition law or having links with illicit liquor mafia, those involved in illegal sand mining and other unlawful activities. The ADG said the action against the erring officials have been initiated irrespective of their ranks. “If you go by the figures, you will find that both gazetted and non-gazetted employees have been punished depending on the nature of lapses or negligence of duty,” he told this newspaper. Similarly, 606 non-gazetted police personnel have been facing departmental proceedings and other punitive action. Till November this year, the 85 personnel have been dismissed from service, 55 have been given major punishment and four have been awarded minor punishment. Besides, there were several other gazetted and non-gazetted officials whose role was being ascertained, sources said. What came as a big surprise was that in 48 cases, the punishment earlier awarded to the accused was found to be inadequate. Such cases were reviewed at the police headquarters level and adequate punishment was awarded. For instance, 23 police personnel were dismissed from service and pension amount of five retired police officials was deducted for their negligence in connection with the 2016 hooch tragedy in Gopalganj district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-tightens-noose-around-cops-for-liquor-law-violation/articleshow/79552829.cms||Ramashankar
December 4, 2020||Kanpur||‘Clear payments of paddy farmers within three days’||KANPUR: The paddy purchase in Kanpur division has been increasing gradually and the target is likely to be attained by next month. Divisional commissioner Dr Raj Shekhar said paddy worth Rs 164 crore has been purchased so far in Kanpur division and Rs 117 crore has already been paid to the farmers. Kanpur division is likely to attain its paddy purchase target by January 2021 having already purchased 26.48% target on December 3, he added. The paddy purchase would continue till February 2021. Divisional commissioner Dr Raj Shekhar visited Naubasta paddy purchase centre on Thursday and checked the functioning and records. As per records paddy purchase has risen marginally by 2% at the centre in the last one week. The commissioner issued directions to clear the pending payment to paddy farmers within three days and submit compliance report to him. Shekhar also issued written warning and served showcause notice to the divisional in-charge officers of National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd.(NAFED) and National Cooperative Consumers’ Federation of India Limited (NCCF) for unnecessary delay in payments to farmers. He directed the regional food controller and ADM finance & revenue to ensure timely payment to farmers and monitor payments on a daily basis. The commissioner has deputed one nodal officer (SDM/ACM, Tehsildar and Nayab Tehsildar rank) for two purchase centres. The nodal officers have to conduct surprise inspection of the purchase centres and review the functioning daily. He has also asked all DMs in the division to review paddy purchase in their districts on a daily basis and ensure compliance of government directives. The commissioner interacted with farmers who had come to Naubasta purchasing centre to sell their paddy and took feedback from them on the functioning of officials and enquired if they faced any problems. The purchase centre in-charge informed that around 400 to 500 quintals of paddy was being purchased per day and payments were being made in three to four days. Payments get delayed by a day or two only if there is a holiday or festival. Shekhar inspected the rejection register and pulled up officials for getting signatures of the farmers whose paddy was rejected neither noting down their contact details. He issued warning to the purchase centre in-charge and directed ADM finance & revenue to ensure signatures of farmers and noting of their contact details in rejection registers at all purchase centres so that officer can cross check and attend complaints against rejection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/clear-payments-of-paddy-farmers-within-three-days/articleshow/79555637.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
December 4, 2020||Business||Canara Bank bucks trend, hikes deposit rates||MUMBAI: A day before the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announces its decision on interest rate, Canara Bank has bucked the trend to raise the same on deposits. The bank has increased interest rate by 20 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) from the record lows that it had touched last month. According to the bank, due to this increase, interest rates on deposits in the 2-to 3-year bracket will go up to 5.4% from 5.2%, and in the 3- to 10-year tenor to 5.5% from 5.3%. Senior citizens will get 50bps more at 5.9% and 6%, respectively, in these two segments. While fixed deposits returns continue to remain below 6%, the recent increase marks a reversal of trends. That is because interest rates have been consistently falling since the Covid-19 lockdown, in line with the rate cuts announced by the RBI and the liquidity infusion measures that it had announced. On Friday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das will announce the monetary policy committee’s decision on interest rates. Given the improvement in growth prospects in the third quarter and inflation concerns, the MPC is widely expected to keep rates on hold. However, the governor had recently reiterated that the central bank would continue to maintain an ‘accommodative’ stance, indicating that liquidity will be adequate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/canara-bank-bucks-trend-hikes-deposit-rates/articleshow/79554271.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||Singapore’s Cube bags strategic Kashmir tunnel||MUMBAI: IL&FS has said that it has received approval from Justice D K Jain to sell 100% stake in its largest infrastructure project — the Chenani-Nashri Tunnelway (CNTL) — to Singapore-based Cube Highways and Infrastructure for Rs 3,900 crore. The sale will resolve Rs 4,910 crore, or around 5%, of the group’s total debt of Rs 99,000 crore. Justice Jain has been appointed by the government to independently approve bids for the group’s assets. CNTL is a wholly owned subsidiary of IL&FS Transportation Networks that, jointly along with its nominees, holds 100% equity of CNTL that has been classified as an ‘amber’ company. These companies do not generate enough cash to service their entire debt but are operationally viable. Following Justice Jain’s approval, the company will now seek approval from the National Company Law Tribunal and the National Highways Authority of India to complete the sale transaction. Besides CNTL and the Jorabat Shillong Expressway, IL&FS has already got Sebi’s ‘in-principle’ approval to form InvIT for 11 road assets in two phases. Part of the ambitious 286km long, four-laning of the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, the Chenani-Nashri Tunnel Project provides connectivity between Chenani and Nashri and cuts down 31km of the Jammu-Srinagar distance. The two-lane tunnel with parallel escape tunnel from Chenani to Nashri section of NH-1A in Jammu & Kashmir was launched with a project cost of Rs 5,269 crore in March 2017 with concession period up to March 2032.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spores-cube-bags-strategic-kashmir-tunnel/articleshow/79554319.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Surat||More cops, politicians likely to face police action||Surat: Police on Thursday arrested 18 accused in the controversial Dosvada incident and sought custody of four key accused including former minister and BJP leader Kanti Gamit, his son Jitendra alias Jitu, LIB police inspector C K Chaudhary and head constable Nilesh. However, late on Thursday evening court granted cops two days’ custody of the four key accused. Sources in police informed that several other political leaders and government officers too may face the heat after their presence in the extravaganza will be revealed. While most of such high-profile names are still under the wraps, police are examining CCTV footage to find out who all were present at the do. More than 3,000 people had gathered on November 30 night at the celebration event of Gamit’s granddaughter’s engagement ceremony sparking a controversy after videos of the extravagant ceremony and musical event went viral on social media. “After arrest, the accused were produced in court by the police on Thursday. Police had requested 14 days’ custody of the four accused and their questioning will reveal important details. However, we were given only two days’ custody,” said R L Mavani, deputy superintendent of police, Vyara. Mavani is investigating the case. Earlier, after the Gujarat high court also took a serious note of the gross violations of Covid guidelines in the celebration, police included additional section of attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder and arrested 18 accused. Gamit and his son Jitendra, sarpanch of Dosvada, were arrested for organising the event while the cops were arrested for remaining present at the event. Police, however, did not seek custody of other accused including the service providers, friends and relatives of the Gamit family who helped in organising the event. Surat SP, Usha Rada, who has been asked to inquire about the negligence of police in the incident, reached Songadh on Thursday and began the investigation process to record statements of the cops concerned of the local police station. Rada has also been asked to inquire about police’s inaction in dispersing crowd at a marriage function in Kapura village of Vyara, videos of which too went viral on Wednesday. A separate offence was registered in Kapura village incident as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/more-cops-politicians-likely-to-face-police-action/articleshow/79552773.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Vadodara||Missing boy’s body found with multiple stab wounds||Vadodara: A Class X student, who was missing since Wednesday evening, was found murdered with several stab wounds on the body, at Dena village near the city on Thursday morning. Ankit Prajapati (16) had left with his friends in a car on Wednesday evening from his home at Dabhoi Road. Prajapati had told his mother Ramila alias Premila that he had to give a gold necklace to a friend, and he will be back in a while. His parents told cops that four of Ankit’s friends had come to pick him up. But the parents could identify only one of them. When Ankit did not return till late night, his parents went out in search of him. But when he could not be found, they approached Panigate police for lodging a missing person complaint. Since it had not been 24 hours since the boy had gone missing, a formal complaint was not registered. Meanwhile on Thursday morning, residents of Dena village saw a body on the side of Dena-Virod road and informed Vadodara rural police. Cops found Ankit’s identity card from the pocket and informed his father Vishal. Police said that there were many stab marks on the throat, chest and back of the body. “We have the identity of just one person with whom the deceased had left, but he is yet to be traced. The boy’s parents are in shock so they have not been able to provide much details, however, we will be able to find the accused in a day or two,” said senior sub-inspector Jaideep Sarvaiya of Vadodara Taluka police station. “My son was a school student and he did not have enmity with anyone. We had not imagined that he will not return forever after leaving home on Wednesday evening,” Vishal said. Based on the deceased’s mother’s complaint an offence of murder, destroying evidence and criminal conspiracy was registered against unidentified persons. Since the cops are not sure if Ankit’s friends, who had come to pick him up on Wednesday, were minor or major, no names of the accused were included in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/missing-boys-body-found-with-multiple-stab-wounds/articleshow/79552256.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Providing social security to PwDs govt’s priority: Min||PATNA: State social welfare minister Ashok Choudhary on Thursday said about 4% reservation is being given to persons with disabilities (PwDs) in government jobs in the state and the department has a separate directorate for the disabled to ensure their rights. The minister, while speaking at a virtual function to mark the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, said foundation centres for PwDs are successfully running in all subdivisions across the state. Choudhary said the department will make more efforts to provide social security to the disabled, so that their living condition can further improve. He said the state government has taken care of economic development, empowerment and the social security of the disabled. “They are being given pension and different equipment under various schemes,” he added. Choudhary added the state government will discharge its obligations with full vigilance towards the PwDs. More than 100 PwDs were felicitated for their skills and talent in different fields at 101 foundation centres across the state on the occasion. State disability commissioner Dr Shivaji Kumar said there are more than 51 lakh PwDs in Bihar. “Last year, the grievances of about two lakh PwDs were heard and proper measures taken under the Rights of PwD Act, 2016,” he added. Pinki Kumari, assistant director of the directorate of empowerment of PwD, said eight special schools are being run for the differently-abled in the state. “A mental school, ‘Chaman’, is also being run in Patna,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/providing-social-security-to-pwds-govts-priority-min/articleshow/79552935.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 4, 2020||Patna||ED conducts raid at residence of PFI functionary||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday conducted raids at the residential premises of a Popular Front of India (PFI) functionary, Mohd Sanaullah, in connection with an alleged money laundering case. This comes as PFI members have been named in several violence cases and illegal protest cases across the country, including violence in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and recent Bengaluru violence. One dies in accident: Ramji Sao (60) of Enarbarawa village died on the spot and an Asha worker, Malti Devi was injured seriously when a three-wheeler in which they were travelling turned turtle near Enarbarawa turning on Bhairoganj-Chautarawa road in West Champaran on Thursday. Construction worker shot at: The work on construction of a bridge over the Dhadhar river near Badauan-Dehuri village in Fatehpur block of Gaya district was stopped after an armed group of extortionists shot a worker on Wednesday evening. “We are trying to ascertain if the Maoists or some local criminals are involved in the crime,” Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra told this newspaper on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ed-conducts-raid-at-residence-of-pfi-functionary/articleshow/79552875.cms||Abhay Singh
December 4, 2020||Business||NCLT clears Jio’s Rs 4,400cr plan for Rel Infratel||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has approved Reliance Jio’s resolution plan for the bankrupt Reliance Infratel. Jio is owned by the Mukesh Ambani-controlled Reliance Industries (RIL), while Reliance Infratel was once owned by Mukesh’s younger brother Anil. Lenders, who now own Reliance Infratel, would receive about Rs 4,400 crore from the sale of the company’s telecom towers and fibre assets. But, the distribution of the sale proceeds are subject to the disposal of Doha Bank’s intervention application. Reliance Infratel owns 43,000 towers and a fibre network of 1.72 lakh km. Separately, UV Asset Reconstruction Company (UVARC) has proposed a Rs 14,000-crore resolution plan for Reliance Infratel’s parent Reliance Communications (RCom). It has proposed an upfront payment of Rs 15 crore to creditors and to make the remainder payments in the future after it monetises RCom’s properties. UVARC’s resolution proposal for RCom’s enterprise, data centre, spectrum and real estate businesses are, however, pending approval from the NCLT. RCom owes Rs 31,788 crore to financial creditors and another Rs 22,455 crore to the department of telecom. It had closed its consumer mobile business in 2019 and subsequently filed for bankruptcy after it was unable to repay debts. Recently, UVARC’s resolution plan for Aircel’s real estate, telecom towers and spectrum businesses was rejected by the RBI. The development happened after the NCLT green-lighted the deal. Industry watchers see a cloud hanging over the UVARC-RCom transaction too. The RBI had denied permission to the UVARC-Aircel deal as it did not meet the guidelines of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest (SARFAESI) Act. This law does not allow ARCs to submit resolution proposals, whereas the Bankruptcy Code does. Once RIL completes the purchase of Reliance Infratel, it will consolidate its telecom tower and fibre asset portfolio. This will also be RIL’s second bankrupt asset purchase after textile manufacturer Alok Industries. Initially, RIL had proposed to buy the entire assets of RCom, but later changed its mind due to various reasons, including delay in getting regulatory approvals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nclt-clears-jios-rs-4400cr-plan-for-rel-infratel/articleshow/79554129.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 4, 2020||Business||Prices of key raw materialused in auto sector zoom up||Chennai: After staying soft all through the first quarter, raw material prices are hardening with the full impact of cumulative increases to be felt in Q3 and Q4 of this financial year. Steel, aluminium, copper and rubber — key inputs for the auto industry — are all headed northwards. Steel is up 30% in 6 months, Aluminium is up 40% and Copper up 77% since March. “The cost of raw materials was on a declining trend from April 2019 to July 2020. Average basic raw material price index for the automobile industry between April-July 2020 was 12% lower year-on-year (YoY) due to lower automobile demand. Basic raw material price index remained lower in the initial months of fiscal 2021 after falling 9% YoY in fiscal 2020. However, cost of major raw materials increased by 9% YoY during August-October 2020, with prices of steel and iron growing most. Basic raw material index constitutes inputs such as steel, iron, aluminium, plastics and rubber,” said Hetal Gandhi, director, Crisil Research. Flat steel prices have seen a 30% jump over the last 6 months led by global prices which rose by over 25% between May and September. Steel prices have gone up by Rs 12,000 per MT in the last 6 months and half yearly steel contracts with auto companies have already been revised upwards. “In the last 6-8 months, steel prices (hot-rolled coils) have increased from Rs 36,000/MT in June to Rs 48,000/MT as on date. Sales contracts with auto companies for H2 FY2021 have been revised upwards by 10%-15% by the large steel players. Auto sales contracts are usually half yearly in nature,” said Priyesh Ruparelia, VP, ICRA.Ditto for other raw materials. Both aluminium and copper prices have hardened significantly since reaching their respective 5 year lows in the March-April. “At present aluminium prices are up by almost 40% to $2,100/MT since the lows registered in April and by almost 15% when compared to a year back,” said Soumyajyoti Basu, AVP, ICRA. “The current demand uptick is coming largely from China,” he added.Copper prices have witnessed the largest increase among non ferrous metals and currently prices are at over $ 7600/MT, up by almost 77% since the lows in March and by almost 30% compared to a year back. This is due to supply disruptions in Chile and Peru which control 50% of global copper production. This has helped domestic copper prices touch Rs 5,50,000/ tonne in the last week of November.As for natural rubber (NR), average domestic prices fell 13%-18% on a sequential basis to Rs 100-Rs 120 / kg in Q1FY21 owing to lack of demand. But domestic rubber prices bounced back to Rs 125-Rs 135 / kg (near Q4FY20 levels) in Q2FY21 with increase in international prices due to demand in China. Domestic rubber supply was also impacted by heavy rainfall and fungal infestation in Kerala which accounts for 80%-85% of India’s NR production. NR prices are at Rs 150-Rs 160/ kg in November 2020 said Crisil Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prices-of-key-raw-materialused-in-auto-sector-zoom-up/articleshow/79553413.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 4, 2020||Business||Climate woes: Nestle plans $3.6bn spend||Mumbai: Nestle plans to invest 3.2 billion Swiss francs, or $3.6 billion, over the next five years to combat climate change. In a global conference held virtually, the world’s largest food company said the investment includes 1.2 billion Swiss francs in regenerative agriculture across its supply chain. The announcement is a road map in line with the company’s plan to halve its emissions by 2030, and achieve net zero emissions by 2050. These investments will be financed primarily through operational and structural efficiencies to keep this initiative earnings-neutral. On how this would impact profitability, Nestle CEO Mark Schneider said: “In 2021, we are fully covered. While we have said we fully intend to make this earnings-neutral, the degree to which it is possible may vary from year to year.” The move would see Nestle planting hundreds of millions of trees within the next 10 years, completing the company’s transition to 100% renewable electricity by 2025 and focusing on regenerative agriculture. To achieve the target, Nestle would not only purchase certified carbon credits but also reduce its business travel significantly. On its part, Nestle India is expected to accelerate its actions towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions across its manufacturing locations and transport of goods, said CMD Suresh Narayanan. “Our ambition is to achieve 100% recyclable or reusable packaging by 2025. We are working towards shaping a waste-free future and driving new behaviour,” said Narayanan. Nestle executive VP & head (operations) Magdi Batato said, “With nearly two-thirds of our emissions coming from agriculture, it is clear that regenerative agriculture and reforestation are the focal points of our path to net zero. These efforts will reduce emissions and improve biodiversity at scale. We will also continue to eliminate emissions from our operations and make improvements in our product portfolio. We have our work cut out for us and we are committed to delivering.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/climate-woes-nestle-plans-3-6bn-spend/articleshow/79554516.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||IIT-M startup ePlane Company raises funds to build flying taxis||Chennai: IIT-Madras incubated startup The ePlane Company has raised an undisclosed amount of seed funding from deep-tech focused VC firm Speciale Invest. The round also saw participation from IIM-Ahmedabad’s CII, FirstCheque, JavaCapital, and Sharechat co-founder Farid Ahsan. The startup said that the new round of financing will allow the company to augment critical infrastructure and bring in a quality engineering team to develop IP and show early product demonstrations by 2021. Founded in 2017 and operational by 2019, ePlane is building electric planes for door-to-door commute in cities. IIT-M professor Satya Chakravarthy and Pranjal Mehta launched the startup to solve the inefficiencies in cargo and passenger transportation. The startup is building electric planes that can be used for 10X faster commute within cities at a similar price to road taxi and can also be used for moving cargo in remote and rural areas. “In urban areas, people spend 1-2 hours every day traveling. Can we reduce it to 10-15 minutes at a similar cost? There is immense societal and economic value in that. It can even make affordable air ambulances a reality. The possibilities are endless.” Pranjal Mehta, Co-founder, and CEO, The ePlane Company, said. The startup is incubated at IIT-M's Incubation Cell and operates from the National Centre for Combustion Research and Development at IIT-M.ePlane has built a small scale prototype by bootstrapping, with a dedicated team of 10 currently and is currently expanding their team to 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/iit-m-startup-eplane-company-raises-funds-to-build-flying-taxis/articleshow/79553221.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Polls to Sivaganga panchayat postponed for fourth time||Madurai: Elections to the posts of chairman and vice-chairman of the Sivaganga district panchayat has once again been postponed due to the proposed visit of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to the district on December 4. Though the DMK has written to the state election commission not to postpone the election and instead order postponement of the CM’s visit, the commission has announced that the elections would now be held on December 11.This is the fourth time that the elections have been postponed ever since the local body polls were held in January. Sivaganga district panchayat council has 16 seats, of which the AIADMK bagged eight. DMK bagged five seats, its allies Congress - 3 and IJK - one. So, both the ruling party and the opposition have equal seats in this council.Elections to the posts of chairman and vice-chairman, were postponed thrice earlier on January 11 and 30 and March 4, citing lack of quorum as a reason. Then the Covid-19 lockdown resulted in the elections being put off for six months. The DMK went to court and the SEC told the court that it would conduct the elections on December 4. DMK’s organising secretary wrote to the state election commissioner seeking that he ask the government to postpone the chief minister’s visit to Sivaganga, as it clashed with the election date, but now the SEC has issued a notification postponing the elections to December 11. As per the notification election to the post of chairman would be held at 10am and to the vice-chairman at 3pm the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/polls-to-sivaganga-panchayat-postponed-for-fourth-time/articleshow/79555916.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Surat||207 more test nCov positive in Surat||Surat: Amid the downward slide in Covid-19 cases for the last two days, Surat city reported 207 new cases on Thursday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, two positive patients succumbed to the virus on Friday taking the death toll to 786 so far.City has witnessed a downward trend in positive cases since November 29 when 223 cases had been reported. The lowest number of cases after that was reported on Wednesday with 204. The recovery rate stands at 93.78%.“Post-Diwali, we are aggressively testing people and will continue doing so in the ongoing wedding season,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/207-more-test-ncov-positive-in-surat/articleshow/79552960.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Patna: Administration penalises 4,992 for not wearing masks, realises Rs 6.92 lakh as fine||PATNA: The district administration has so far penalised 4,992 people for not wearing masks and collected more than Rs 6.92 lakh as fine from them during the special drive to ensure implementation of Covid-19 safety protocols in public places in the city. As it is mandatory for people to wear mask while driving vehicles or travelling in autorickshaws, private cabs and buses, at least 505 people were issued challans for not following the safety rules. The officials have collected Rs 3,96,900 as fine from them. On Thursday, 476 people were caught without mask, including 96 by the traffic cops, during vehicle-checking drive. A sum of Rs 95,500 was collected from them as fine. The drive was launched last week for strict enforcement of Covid safety protocols to prevent further spread of the virus. Patna DM Kumar Ravi said several teams have been formed at block and circle levels in this regard. “Maximum cases of mask violation have been reported from Station Road, Digha, Bazaar Samiti, Gardanibaghand apparel markets in town areas,” he said, adding more than 24 shops were issued notice for violating safety norms. These shops were shut for three days,” he added. The erring shops are mostly located on Fraser Road, Boring Canal Road, Thakurbari Road, Station Road, Meethapur, Dak Bungalow and near Chiraiyatand Pul. Meanwhile, at several places, people are still flouting the mask rule and social distancing norms. “Mask is the primary preventive measure to control the spread of the virus, but people do not want to understand it. We are unable to control the public at peak hours,” said Kamalnath Singh, a shopkeeper. A manager of an apparel shop on Thakurbari Road, Sandeep Kumar, said, “Safety protocols like sanitisation and thermal screening of customers are being followed. However, many customers do not follow the mask rule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/admn-penalises-4992-for-not-wearing-masks-realises-rs-6-92-lakh-as-fine/articleshow/79552720.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Board exams: Partial reopening of schools sought from January in Patna||PATNA: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has requested all chief ministers (CMs) to permit schools to reopen partially from January, especially for the students of classes X and XII who will write the board exams. “With the students physically attending school, this time will be utilized for practical work, project work, SUPW work and for doubt-clearing lessons. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will now get the time to interact directly with their teachers,” CISCE chief executive Gerry Arathoon wrote in a letter on Thursday. He asserted that the schools would be told to follow the directives of the state government regarding Covid-19 and conform to the safety guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus. Asked if any decision in this regard had been taken, an education department official replied that schools were already holding partial classes for the students of classes IX to XII in the state. Some CISCE-affiliated schools in Patna hailed Arathoon’s move, saying students were unable to understand certain topics in online classes. Don Bosco Academy principal Mary Alphonsa pointed out that students could not score well without practical work. “Earlier, we had invited the students for a doubt-clearing session, but their turnout was low. Even if teachers are conducting online classes, practicals are equally important for the board examinees. I hope the government takes a decision in this regard,” Alphonsa added. Jesus and Mary Academy assistant director Abhishek Patrick also sought the government’s approval to reopen the school. He said, “Small groups of students are coming to doubt-clearing sessions twice a week. They should now be allowed to attend practical classes to understand important topics in physics, chemistry, math, and computer science.” Students are also in favour of attending practical classes in schools. Class X pupil Sneha Prakash, who studies in International School, told this newspaper, “Doing practical work on mobile apps and touching apparatuses and equipment in labs are completely different experiences. The former cannot replace the latter.” Mount Carmel student Abhilasha Kumari echoed similar views. “Practical work involves practice in laboratories,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/board-exams-partial-reopening-of-schools-sought-from-january/articleshow/79552701.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 4, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: As home turns into office & school, mobile phone shops mushroom||BHOPAL: Bhagwan Singh, who had been running a gift shop in Kolar for the past 15 years, recently took a drastic decision to start a mobile accessories shop. Reason? He found that a majority of customers enquired for mobile accessories instead of gifts available at his shop. His decision proved correct after he managed to register good sales. Vendors claimed that the demand has increased exponentially. Important accessories which are in huge demand are mobile covers, charging cables, phone storage box, running armband, selfie-stick, car mount, power bank and such others. Bhagwan is not the only shopkeeper who has stopped their established business and started dealing in mobile accessories. “Whether it is a student or a professional, their demand for mobiles and its accessories are rising. Due to covid, I had to face huge losses in the business, which has been running for past 15 years. I am happy to start this new venture,” said Bhagwan. Rishabh, who has completed his college final year in 2019, started running his father’s age-old business of garments. However, he wanted to start a new venture. Realising the demand of mobile accessories, he went on to take another shop adjacent to the garment shop and opened his accessories business. “I have started earning more than the garment shop within the past couple of months. Even my father has started supporting me in this business,” said Rishabh who runs his shop in the Old City area. “Demand of mobile accessories has been exponentially increased. This is almost 5 to 8 times more than the pre-Covid era,” said another mobile shop vendor, Rajesh Parihar. Mobile accessories shops have come up almost in every mohalla across the state capital. “Earlier In my colony, there was only a shop of mobile accessories. Now, I have seen that such shops come up in large numbers. Several people have stopped their old business and jumped into this business, realising the high demand of the gadgets,” said Ashok Singh, a vendor in Arera Colony. Demand for the mobile accessories could be gauged from the fact that the market in MP Nagar Zone-I, which is a hub of mobile accessories, has stocked such items in large numbers. “Online classes and work from home is the new normal that has made the accessories business much in demand in Bhopal. It has become a need now,” said Atul Kumar, a vendor in BHEL locality. Even vendors said that modern mobile accessories like phone cases that can hold cards, portable Bluetooth keyboard, car chargers and such others are also being asked for by the customers at the shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-home-turns-into-office-school-mobile-phone-shops-mushroom/articleshow/79553716.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar: New Koilwar bridge likely to open on December 10||ARA: Bhojpur DM Roshan Kushwaha and SP Har Kishore Rai jointly inspected the Koilwar bridge on Wednesday and asked officials of National Highways Authority of India to complete works for its proposed inauguration on December 10. As per the request made by the NHAI officials and the official communication from Bhojpur district administration, the new Koilwar bridge will remain closed for vehicular traffic from December 5 to 9 for completion of the remaining works. Alternate traffic plans will be in place till the inauguration of the new bridge. According to sources, Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and R K Singh will inaugurate the new Koilwar bridge. The eagerly awaited six-lane bridge has been built over Sone river under the ongoing Patna-Ara (NH-30) four-laning project with an expenditure of Rs 200 crore. Meanwhile, the Bhojpur DM and SP held a coordination meeting with Danapur SDPO and SDO to streamline traffic on Koilwar bridge. It was decided that loaded trucks plying from Bihta towards the southern direction will ply via Arwal and Sahar route. Bhojpur administration will ensure that dividers will be put on the way between the Dharhara bridge in Ara and Koilwar in order to avoid snarls. The Bhojpur DM has also asked the executive engineer, Shahabad road division to take steps for the widening of roads on both sides of Dharhara bridge to solve the problem of frequent traffic jams between Ara and Koilwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-koilwar-bridge-likely-to-open-on-dec-10/articleshow/79552978.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||Flipkart hives off PhonePe, payment company valued at $5.5 billion||BENGALURU: Payment major PhonePe has been hived off from Flipkart into a separate entity, a move that will give it more autonomy. The announcement came on Thursday alongside that of a fund infusion of $700 million that values PhonePe at around $5.5 billion. The new capital has come from Walmart, which owns Flipkart, and other existing investors. PhonePe, started by former Flipkart executives Sameer Nigam and Rahul Chari, was acquired by Flipkart in 2016 and it was prescribed a valuation of around $1 billion when Walmart acquired Flipkart for $16 billion in 2018. PhonePe will now constitute its own board and create a new employee stock option plan (ESOP) for all its full-time staffers (around 2,400). Flipkart will have 87% stake in PhonePe, and Walmart 10%. The remaining 3% would be with existing investors like Tiger Global. TOI first reported last year in March that Flipkart’s board had given an in-principle nod for PhonePe to go solo. The separation will allow PhonePe to raise external capital independently, and not be dependent on Flipkart and Walmart. Prior to this, PhonePe had got close to $1 billion from Flipkart over several tranches. Chari said the firm will hire more people across functions. The firm is looking to hire 500-600 next year, taking the total to 3,000. The Bengaluru-based startup was engaged in several conversations on financing with large strategic and financial investors over the last 12-18 months to fight Google Pay, Paytm and Amazon Pay. It was looking at a valuation of at least $7-8 billion, as TOI has previously reported. “We actually got some independent valuations done by the Big Four firms and global banks. We believe this was the right number when we got the valuation done,” Nigam told TOI. Flipkart co-founder Binny Bansal, who left the company in 2018 but still holds his stake in the firm, will get a seat on PhonePe’s board. Two senior executives from Walmart are expected to be on the board. Nigam and Chari will be there, as also finance expert Rohit Bhagat, who sits on the Axis Bank board. “Having a payments platform and BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) -centric board is different from a board with expertise in commerce. Over time, it will allow us to get more learning from our board, more regular interaction with them,” Nigam added. He said the capital allows them to take slightly longer bets, without having to worry if the decisions would pay dividends in 6-12 months. Chari added that this particular event does not change or accelerate plans to be profitable or go for an IPO. The company plans to expand its rural reach. PhonePe has been scaling up its merchant network in non-metro markets as the virus outbreak aided expansion of digital payments across the country. It recently said it has a total of 250 million registered users with 100 million of them being monthly active users. In November, it clocked nearly 1 billion transactions. It is one of the leading payment apps on Unified Payments Interface (UPI), with about 40% monthly market share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-hives-off-phonepe-payment-co-valued-at-5-5bn/articleshow/79554189.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 4, 2020||Patna||Robot to end manual scavenging in Patna||PATNA: A spider-shaped robotic machine nicknamed ‘Bandicoot’, named after an Australian rat-like marsupial, will come to the rescue of manual scavengers in the city who will no longer have to take the risk of going down manholes and sewers to unclog them. The Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is soon going to introduce the robotic cleaning machine, Bandicoot, which would eliminate the need for human intervention in cleaning sewer holes. “It is crucial to ending manual scavenging as workers are prone to infection and other health hazards and sometimes even loss of human lives also occur,” said PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma. In May 2017, two PMC workers had died of suffocation while cleaning a sewer line at the Income Tax- roundabout. To initiate the first-of-its-kind project in the city the civic body signed an MoU with the Indian Oil Corporation Limited on Thursday. The IOCL would provide Rs 40 lakh to the PMC as part of its corporate social responsibility programme to procure the robot. The Bandicoot, developed by a start-up called ‘Genrobotics’, cleans manholes and sewers with precision. It takes 15 minutes to clean small sewers and around 45 minutes to unclog bigger ones. The robot was developed under the Make in India initiative. The PMC commissioner said the civic body would procure the machine from the Centre’s Government e-Market portal, which is likely to be here by the end of February 2021. “The robotic machine is for the mechanised cleaning of manholes, and it will be the first-of-its-kind machine in Bihar. From next year, manhole cleaning will be done by the new machine and workers will not enter the sewer,” he said. The Centre has announced a slew of measures to end the discriminatory and hazardous practice of manual scavenging by August 2021 under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan, he added. “Right now, we are purchasing one machine, which will be operated and maintained by the PMC as a pilot project. If required, we will again request the IOCL to procure more machines. Civic officials will get training to operate this machine. For the big drains, the PMC will carry out the desilting exercise through bob carts and other machines, which we used,” Sharma said during the signing of MoU. Pramod Ranjan DGM (HR-CSR), IOCL- Bihar said this initiative has been successful in several cities of the country. “Under the CSR, the machine was provided to Jaipur, Kolkata, Guwahati, Hyderabad and other cities by the IOCL,” he said. Highlighting the important features of the robotic machine, Ranjan said the robot lifts the heavy metal cover on its own, drops its arm into the manhole, scoops out the solid waste and dumps it in a bucket. “The robot's operations can be seen on a monitor. The machine is fibre-made and easily movable,” he said. Patna Mayor Sita Sahu appreciated the IOCL and PMC for the initiative and said manual scavengers face health hazards like exposure to harmful gases, cardiovascular degeneration, muscular and skeletal disorder, infection, skin problem and respiratory issues. “Sometimes the most tragic consequences have also been reported,” she added. Apart from Kerala, Bandicoot cleans sewers in 12 other states, such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Assam, Karnataka, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Additional municipal commissioners Devendra Prasad Tiwari and Sheela Irani, other officials of IOCL and PMC were present during the signing of the MoU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/robot-to-end-manual-scavenging-in-patna/articleshow/79553041.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 4, 2020||Patna||Girl commits suicide in Patna||PATNA: A 20-year-old college girl committed suicide by jumping off a newly inaugurated overbridge near R Block roundabout here on Thursday. The victim, Shwetangi, daughter of sub-inspector of police Sanjay Kumar Mishra, was suffering from depression, police said. The incident took place around 12.30pm in one of the busiest localities of the state capital. A police constable deployed at R Block roundabout rushed to the spot after hearing a loud sound only to find the young girl lying in a pool of blood. SHO of Secretariat police station C P Gupta said the girl, an undergraduate student of a women’s college at Khagaul, suddenly jumped off the bridge. She was rushed to the hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead. The victim’s identity was ascertained with the help of the cellphone she was carrying with her. Her father Mishra, who is posted with the state vigilance investigation bureau, was immediately informed about the incident. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem. A case of unnatural death was registered with the Secretariat police station in this connection. The girl’s relatives told the police that she was under medical supervision of a doctor for depression. The family lives in a rented accommodation near Yarpur Rajputana. “She was very upset after a theft in the house on the night of December 1 when her parents had gone to Masarakh in Saran district to attend a wedding ceremony. She had gone to her relative’s house that night. She found the locks open after returning home the next morning,” a relative said. “She was holding her responsible for the theft. Cash, gold jewellery and other valuables were stolen from the house,” another relative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/depressed-girl-commits-suicide/articleshow/79552835.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar prepares for Covid vaccine storage, distribution||PATNA: Storage equipment for Covid-19 vaccine will start reaching the state from Friday as the state government is working to strengthen its cold storage capacity from 1.37 crore vials to 2.37 crore. The government is preparing a database of doctors and health workers, including those working in private facilities, in the state who will be given the shots in the first phase. The deadline for preparing this list is December 8. The State Health Society executive director, Manoj Kumar, who is the state’s nodal incharge for vaccine distribution, said they were working on several fronts. From strengthening of the cold storage chain with specific requirements, identification of frontline health workers who will receive the vaccine on priority and scrutiny of health workers to be roped in for the vaccination process. On the identification of health workers who will be given the shots first, he said a database is being prepared which will include even those working in a private health facility or even a small medical clinic. “It is not that only government health workers or those involved in the Covid-19 treatment would get the vaccine first. Even a doctor who has a clinic will be identified, including staff working at his clinic. One never knows whether he is treating a positive person or not,” Manoj said. Manoj said there are 674 cold chain points in the state which will be used to store vaccines. “These can store 1.37 crore vial at a time and we have to enhance their capacity by an additional one crore so that routine immunization does not get hampered. We have written for logistical support to the Centre like an ice-lined refrigerator, walk-in cooler and freezer. This equipment will start arriving from tomorrow,” Manoj said. There are nearly 3.52 lakh government health workers, including AMNs, and till Wednesday details of 1.8 lakh of them had been added to the database. Apart from them, nearly 4,000 private institutes have been identified whose workers will be added to the list. The health department has targeted to complete this process by December 8. Since ANMs are involved in routine immunization, alternative health workers like doctors, interns, paramedics and ANMs not in RI are being identified. Scrutiny of nearly 24,000 to 25,000 such workers are being done, who will then be trained for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-prepares-for-covid-vaccine-storage-distribution/articleshow/79552597.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 4, 2020||Surat||State’s second sainik school to come up in Umarpada||Surat: The second sainik (military) school in Gujarat is likely to come up at Bilvan village in a tribal-dominated Umarpada taluka of Surat district. The only sainik school in the state is located at Balachadi, in Jamnagar.The foundation of the new sainik school, being build at the cost of Rs 27.42 crore, will be laid by Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani on December 5. The new school at Bilvan will be spread over 20 acre land and will house a school building, students’ hostel, dining hall, staff quarters and sports complex among other amenities. This residential school in the tribal dominated district will provide quality education to hundreds of students from the region. The central government scheme for setting up sainik schools was introduced in 1961 with the primary aim of preparing boys academically and physically for entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA). The scheme was also aimed to eradicate the regional or rural-urban disparities in the officer cadre in the Indian armed forces. Even though sainik schools prime motive is to equip children to join the NDA, they are committed to orient its educational and developmental processes in a way that helps grooms students into leaders in their chosen fields, says the mandate of the sainik schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/states-second-sainik-school-to-come-up-in-umarpada/articleshow/79552851.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Jamui man kills wife, minor daughter||PATNA: A 35-year-old man, Pramod Tanti, killed his wife and a minor daughter with a sharp-edged weapon in their house at Kalyanpur area in Jamui district late on Wednesday night. Pramod also attempted to kill his son but he managed to escape. On getting information, a police team led by SHO of Jamui Town police station Chandan Kumar rushed to the spot and sent the bodies to sadar hospital for postmortem. “Police have recovered a blood-stained sickle from the house. Family feud is probably the reason behind the incident. The accused suspected that his wife had an extramarital affair with a youth, who is absconding after the incident.” “The couple used to quarrel over the woman’s illicit relationship. On November 18, Pramod had even attempted to commit suicide by consuming sulphas pills, but was saved after being admitted to the hospital,” an investigating officer said. Though the incident took place around midnight on Wednesday, it came to light on Thursday morning when the woman’s five year-old son, Om Kumar, narrated the incident to his neighbours. Locals said Pramod, who works as a marble cutter in New Delhi, had returned home on the occasion of Durga Puja. He got agitated after seeing some objectionable pictures in his wife’s cellphone. Their relationship got strained after the incident. ‘The case is being probed from all angles. Raids have been intensified to nab the culprit at the earliest,” the SDPO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jamui-man-kills-wife-minor-daughter/articleshow/79553000.cms||Ramashankar
December 4, 2020||Kanpur||In a 1st, IIT-K holds virtual placement drive||Kanpur: For the first time ever, the placement drive at IIT-Kanpur is being held in an online mode due to Covid-19 pandemic. No company has physically come to the institute for participating in the placement drive, yet the institute placement cell has managed to place around 460 students by the end of day three on Thursday. Last year, during the same period (first three days of the drive), about 520 students had been placed. This year about 220-230 companies have registered with the IIT for hiring students against about 300 companies which had come to campus during the last placement season. However, the placement cell and the students are positive for the fact that a higher salary package has been offered by any domestic company this year than the last year. This year, salary package by a domestic company has reached a high of Rs 82 lakhs per annum against Rs 60 lakh offered last year. Also, the international offer (job offer made by an international/multinational company) has reached close to the salary package offered last year. This year international salary offer has touched a high of Rs 1.47 crore per annum against Rs 1.54 crore (per annum) offered last year. Placement cell in-charge at IIT-Kanpur, Prof Kantesh Balani on being contacted said that for the first time the entire placement drive is being held in an online mode where both students and participating companies are remotely located. “While a student is sitting in his hometown, the recruiting firm is based somewhere else in either India or outside the country. The interviews and other tests for the students are being held online. Earlier, in the past some companies used to follow the online route for hiring students but this is not the case this year,” Prof Balani told TOI. He further said, “Despite Covid pandemic students are doing well. They have received and accepted offer of Rs 82 lakh per annum by domestic firms. Also, some students who have accepted international job offers will receive Rs 1.47 crore annum while working on foreign shores.” He said, “last year 300 hiring firms had registered with us and this year, this number has dropped to 220-230 but our students are charged up and due to their efforts we have managed to have confirmation from major companies and the hiring process is going on well.” This year over 1,000 students — both from undergraduate and post-graduate courses — are taking part in the placement drive. Last year 1,136 students had participated in the drive. The first phase of the drive will go on till December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/in-a-1st-iit-k-holds-virtual-placement-drive/articleshow/79554303.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Patna||Create scientific temper among youngsters: Guv||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan has called upon academics to create a scientific temper among the youngsters and ensure all-round progress of the society. Inaugurating the three-day Bihar Science Conference, which was jointly organized by Patna University (PU) and ‘BiharBrains’ at the Raj Bhavan on Thursday, Chauhan talked about the role of science in the development of a modern society. “The Covid-19 pandemic may have paralysed the normal activities of the people throughout the world, but online classes and webinars have led to the development of tech-oriented education in our society,” the chancellor said, adding that scientific thoughts should be applied for the welfare of the masses. He hoped that the Bihar Science Conference would ignite the thought process of youngsters and infuse a new energy of scientific growth and development. The chancellor also released a souvenir on the occasion. Addressing the conference, PU vice-chancellor G K Chaudhary said the university had been imparting quality education in science by improving its infrastructure. Scientist Anil Kakodkar gave a keynote address on ‘Getting Ready for Knowledge Era’. ‘BiharBrains’ chairman Bibhuti Bikramaditya, Bihar Science Conference convener Birendra Prasad, PU development officer P K Khan and registrar Manoj Kumar Mishra also attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/create-scientific-temper-among-youngsters-guv/articleshow/79553739.cms||B K Mishra
December 4, 2020||Patna||Kahalgaon station gets its 1st elevator||BHAGALPUR: JD (U) MP Ajay Kumar Mandal inaugurated a new elevator at the Kahalgaon railway station, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Eastern Railway (ER), on Thursday. Speaking at the event, the MP said, “The elevator will help passengers, especially senior citizens and women, move from one platform to another with ease.” ER’s chief public relations officer Nikhil K Chakraborty told this newspaper that the elevator was installed by the railways despite the Covid-19 lockdown. “The toilets, waiting hall and lounge at the railway station have also been modernized,” he added. Malda divisional railway manager Yatendra Kumar, who was present on the occasion, claimed that work on installation of more elevators was underway at Jamalpur, Bhagalpur, Sahibganj and other stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kahalgaon-station-gets-its-1st-elevator/articleshow/79552965.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 4, 2020||Surat||Tapi-Karjan pipeline to irrigate 53K acres||Surat: Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani will lay the foundation stone for the ambitious Rs 711 crore Tapi-Karjan link pipeline under the lift irrigation scheme on December 5 at Umarpada in Surat district.According to government sources, the proposed irrigation scheme will provide water to 53,700 acre agricultural land covering 51 villages of Umarpada taluka and 22 villages of Dediapada taluka in Narmada district. Under the scheme, 100 existing check dams will also be filled with water from Ukai dam.“The tribals on the right-bank of Ukai dam have been demanding water for irrigation since long and this scheme will provide water to farmers in these areas. Four pumping stations will be built along with the pipeline network. The first pumping station will be built at Satkashi village near Ukai dam and the last pumping station will be located at Gondaliya village,” said an official.The state government also plans to create three more check dams under this irrigation scheme.Currently, farmers, mostly tribals have no irrigation facility in this area and are dependent on rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-karjan-pipeline-to-irrigate-53k-acres/articleshow/79552893.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Don’t stop free power to farmers: Engg body||Kurukshetra: All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has extended support to farmers and urged the Union government to scrap the farm laws and protect the power subsidy of farmers by withdrawing the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, and standard bidding document. AIPEF spokesperson V K Gupta claimed the power engineers believed that the farmers’ protests were against the economic policy of the Union government which was allegedly to favour the corporates and industry leaders to maximise their business and profit at the cost of the farming community. AIPEF chairman Shailender Dubey alleged, “While the Union government has proposed the procedure of DBT (direct benefit transfer), this amounted to snatching the subsidy of free power to farmers.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-stop-free-power-to-farmers-engg-body/articleshow/79555051.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Business||Irdai to ban credit-linked group health insurance||MUMBAI: Insurance regulator Irdai has proposed a ban on credit-linked group health policies such as critical illness covers that are bundled with home loans. According to industry sources, the products that are pushed to homebuyers are mis-sold as health covers but are not suitable for the customers. Irdai has proposed that all existing credit-linked group health policies be withdrawn by December 31, 2020. “As the primary purpose of any health cover is to meet the treatment costs or to manage the lifestyle on diagnosis of critical illness, no insurer is permitted to offer any indemnity or benefit-based credit-linked group health products,” Irdai said in a draft circular. The regulator has, however, made an exception for the sale of personal accident policy. Many home loan providers bundle a critical illness cover with the home loan. But advisers say that, ideally, critical illness covers should be purchased along with health insurance and not as a standalone cover. Also, premiums on group covers are completely unregulated unlike individual policies, where the regulator ensures the pricing is fair. In the draft circular, Irdai said that henceforth insurers that wish to offer group insurance should have a board-approved group underwriting policy. “The policy should spell out the manner in which the risks and costs are analysed and factored into the premium cost. All factors of coverage should be separately analysed and priced,” Irdai said. In the UK, banks have had to make billions of pounds of provisions as compensation for mis-selling of payment protection insurance that was forced upon homebuyers and other small borrowers for commission.Mis-selling by banks in India has largely gone unpunished as it falls in a regulatory grey area. It was only in June 2017 that the RBI said customers that have been mis-sold third-party products by banks can approach the banking ombudsman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/irdai-to-ban-credit-linked-group-health-insurance/articleshow/79554496.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh tally breaches 2.1 lakh mark after 1450 fresh Covid-19 cases||BHOPAL: With 1,450 new people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state on Thursday, the tally of patients reached 2,10,374. And Thursday was the fourth consecutive day when the number of people recovering in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. In the past four days between November 30 and December 3, the number of active patients in the state has reduced by 1,087. There were a total of 14,974 active cases in the state on November 29. It started reducing since November 30, and as on December 3, there were a total of 13,887 active patients in the state. Apart from these fresh cases, 13 deaths were also reported on Thursday. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3,300 in the state. Districts from which these deaths were reported include Indore where 4 death cases were reported, Bhopal where 2 death cases were reported and one death each was reported from Jabalpur, Sagar, Ratlam, Rewa, Shahdol, Neemuch and Damoh districts. On Thursday, new cases were reported from all the 52 districts of the state. And cases were reported in double figures from 22 districts of the state. Districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 560 case, Bhopal where 375 new cases were reported, Gwalior where 73 cases were reported and Jabalpur where 50 new cases were reported. Of the 30,323 samples that were tested on Thursday a total 1,450 people tested positive. Thus overall positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Thursday stood at 4.7%. On the brighter side, 1,569 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals. With these people recovering, the count of people recovering from Covid-19 reached 1,93,187.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1450-new-cases-take-state-covid-count-to-210374/articleshow/79553740.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Depts told to share draft policies||Gandhinagar: The state industries and mines department, the nodal department responsible for improving Gujarat’s ease of doing business (EoDB) ranking, has asked all departments of the state government to pro-actively put all draft policies, notifications and circulars in the public domain for wider consultations. This directive has been issued as part of ‘Access to Information and Transparency under Ease of Doing Business’ measures. A new circular said the government of India’s Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) along with the World Bank announces a set of reforms to be implemented by the states as part of Ease of Doing Business measures and based on the implementation, the states are evaluated and ranked. The final State Reforms Action Plan (SRAP) 2020-21 reforms were shared by DPIIT on 25 August 2020, and there are 301 reforms to be implemented within 16 different departments. “Since 2019, DPIIT has shifted its focus from evidence-based ranking to a completely feedback-based ranking of states. Hence, it is crucial that implementation of the reforms be taken up on priority and the focus is on delivering services in a time-bound, physical intervention-free and effective manner. Grievances if any, may be resolved in the shortest time possible,” the circular said. The circular further said that feedback of users will enable the state to enhance its ranking on EODB parameters. “Under the SRAP 2020-21, all concerned departments have been given the mandate to upload new regulations or licences or policies in the online wizard/system within 30 days from the date of issuance of the GR,” the circular said. The circular has also stated that departments must ensure that new policies or notifications issued by them must have a basis in law, that they are necessary for the government to achieve its objectives and that they are business-friendly. “Make arrangements to publish draft business regulations online and invite public comments/feedback on them prior to enactment. The period of display should be at least 30 days,” the circular said. The IMD, in its circular to other departments, also said that departments must make arrangements to publish comments or feedbacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/depts-told-to-share-draft-policies/articleshow/79553741.cms||Kapil Dave
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Compliance improved due to fear of Covid social service’||Ahmedabad: Though the Supreme Court stayed the Gujarat high court order of making social service at Covid care centres mandatory for those caught not wearing masks, fear of this was visible on city roads. AMC teams also noticed a visible difference in compliance with the mask rule among the public.Earlier, about 40% of people were moving about without masks and the number was less than 10% on Thursday, said Harshad Solanki, director of solid waste management. “I moved about in the city and I could notice a visible difference,” Solanki said, adding that the fear of social service at Covid care centres had made people put on masks. Even those driving alone in cars were wearing masks.Outside the Usmanpura AMC office, in the first three hours four persons were caught and in one case a rickshaw driver was taken to the police station for not paying the fine. The driver, Dalpat Parmar, created a ruckus when he was told to pay the Rs 1,000 fine for not wearing a mask. He also refused to get himself tested. Police were called and he was taken to Vadaj police station. Hema Halani was also caught without a mask. She said she was carrying her baby and the baby would pull it off. Those who were caught said the threat of having to do social service at a Covid care centre definitely made a difference. AMC officers said to make things more stringent, violators should be made to do social service in their own neighbourhoods, such as sweeping, and not at Covid centres. According to them, people would then be ashamed. Rajesh Patel, who was wearing a mask, said, “I usually forgot to wear a mask but today I ensured I had the mask on as I want to make it habit now, rather than going for social service and risking my health and that of my family. Paying a fine of Rs 1,000 is easier than doing this social service.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/compliance-improved-due-to-fear-of-covid-social-service/articleshow/79555102.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 4, 2020||Allahabad||‘Mumbai or UP do not belong to Shiv Sena or its allies’||PRAYAGRAJ: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Thursday tore into Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray for his recent comments against the proposed Film City in Noida and said that both Mumbai and Uttar Pradesh do not belong to either Shiv Sena or its allies Congress and NCP. While talking to the media at Circuit House Maurya said, “Why is Uddhav Thackeray’s stomach paining with UP government’s decision to set up a Film City in Noida. The Film City is being established in Noida so that the young talent from UP can get a better platform to showcase their skills in films and on the small screen.” “The Yogi government is not transferring Mumbai’s Film City, but is creating a separate new Film City in Noida so that lakhs of people get employment.” He also said the project will serve as a world-class stage for Hollywood, Bollywood and small screen artists. “Shiv Sena is needlessly stung over the Noida Film City project, whereas in Maharashtra too the Bharatiya Janata Party is a bigger party than Shiv Sena,” the deputy CM said. Slamming the Congress over its opposition against the newly introduced farm bills, Maurya said the Opposition, including the Congress, were misleading the farmers. “The common farmers from UP or the country are not agitating over the laws. I am a farmer’s son myself and am well aware that the new laws are in the interest of farmers.” Maurya also condoled the traumatic death of a child after he fell into a borehole in Mahoba district. He appealed to farmers and the public to not to keep boreholes open, so that such incidents do not occur again. “Such incidents should be taken seriously and strict action should be taken under the law in such cases,” he said. Justifying the decision of the administration to make Covid-19 test mandatory for devotees coming to the Magh Mela, he said, “The challenge is to keep Magh Mela free of novel coronavirus. In such a situation, it is necessary that people should enter the fair only after getting themselves tested for Covid-19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mumbai-or-up-do-not-belong-to-shiv-sena-or-its-allies/articleshow/79552401.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||In dry Gujarat, circular asks cops not to sniff drunks||AHMEDABAD: A circular to all police stations and agencies across the state from the director general of police’s office, dated December 3, says the smelling of mouths of persons suspected to be drunk, by police or panch witnesses, is prohibited till further orders. The orders says this is because of the risk of Covid-19 being transmitted to the cops or panch witnesses. According to police sources, so far FIR in such cases state that “from the person’s condition, eyes, slurring and smelling of his mouth by cops and panch witnesses it appeared that the person was drunk”. Police officials said the person is then held and sent for a medical test. A senior police official said that while drawing up panchnamas of persons who seem to be drunk, the cops or personnel of any law enforcement agency should not smell their mouth. “The only things that should be in the FIR and be done while up drawing a panchnama is the description of the person’s physical condition, whether they can stand and speak properly and if their eyes seem as if they are drunk. The suspect should then be sent for a medical test,” a senior police official said. In most FIRs concerning persons caught drunk, the cops use an almost identical template, stating that by smelling their mouths and making panch witnesses do so, it appeared that the accused was drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-sniffing-mouths-of-drunk-suspects/articleshow/79555128.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Did forest department permit tree felling in Karhandla sanctuary?||NAGPUR: The territorial and wildlife wing officials of the forest department have locked horns over felling trees in Umred-Karhandla-Paoni Wildlife Sanctuary (UKPWS), 70km from here. Territorial wing officials have denied the allegations, and said felling permission was granted in the area under their jurisdiction. The tree felling came to light in compartment number 1,439 at Kargaon last week, when a joint survey was conducted on November 28 by UKPWS divisional forest officer (DFO) Rahul Gavai and deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Prabhu Nath Shukla. P Kalyan Kumar, CCF, Nagpur Circle, said, “The joint survey has nothing to do with felling. A survey was done for proposed mitigation measures to be taken by Maha Rail while upgrading the narrow gauge track between Itwari-Nagbhid in the forest section.” Kumar denied tree felling in the sanctuary area. He said, “Part of compartment 1,439 (northern side of the track while going toward Nagbhid) is with the sanctuary and part (southern side) is with the territorial department. Felling must have been done in the territorial area.” Roheet Karu, who was instrumental in carving out the sanctuary, claimed over 50 trees have also been chopped in the sanctuary area. Umred-Karhandla sanctuary was notified on June 29, 2012, but no boundary demarcation has been done in the last eight years. “This would have averted this situation,” he said. Karu added, “This is not the case of any individual farmer granted tree felling permission in such a tearing hurry. As it is a linear project falling in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) and connects one protected area to another, the wildlife department's permission was necessary. I will submit a memorandum to PCCF (wildlife) demanding action.” Territorial DyCF Shukla said, “Part of the area of the compartment is with us. We are still ascertaining whether trees were felled in the sanctuary area. Overall 154 trees have been felled. The verification of all papers regarding the disputed area is going on.” South Umred RFO Vaishnavi Jhare, who is the competent authority, said, “Tree felling permission was granted for 350 trees in survey number 276, which is not part of the sanctuary. The felling was carried out last month with proper procedure. Had the said survey number, where felling took place, been with wildlife, then railway line would have passed through the sanctuary, which is not the case.” As reported by TOI, earlier, Jhare has been in the thick of controversy twice, when she blatantly violated rules by allowing felling of 282 trees exceeding her jurisdiction in Umred municipal limit in June his year. As per law, the power to allow tree felling rests with the chief officer of the council. Jhare, while holding additional charge as RFO of North Umred, had also granted permission to fell 350 trees in the tiger corridor between Titur and Shivni in February this year for the same railway line project. No procedure of transit pass and hammering was followed. Karu pointed out, “The SC order restrains all states and union territories from removing dead, diseased, dying or wind fallen trees as well as driftwood and grass from any protected area or forest. It further clarifies that if any state government has already passed such an order, the execution of the same stands stayed with immediate effect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/did-forest-dept-permit-tree-felling-in-karhandla-sanctuary/articleshow/79555131.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 4, 2020||Goa||As Mollem rages, bishop says speak up against green damage||Panaji: Probably for the first time, the Church waded into the three contentious Centre-funded infrastructure projects that cut across the biodiversity hotspot of Mollem, when archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao gave a clarion call on Thursday to the faithful to raise their voices against any destruction to the environment. Without mentioning Mollem or making any direct references to the three linear projects, Ferrao, during his homily at the feast Mass of St Francis Xavier, invoked Jesus, Goencho Saib and the Pope to tell the faithful they cannot say they don’t care but have a responsibility to speak out and must think of the future generations as well. “The Earth, as Pope Francis reminds us, is our common home and it is our responsibility to protect it,” he said. “…when we see that there are situations in which the good of the planet is endangered, when the interest of the poor is not taken care of, when environment is likely to be polluted, when intergenerational equity is not being enhanced and preserved, then it is our responsibility as disciples of Jesus, as devotees of St Francis Xavier to raise our prophetic voice,” he said. Ferrao’s call comes at a time when ‘Save Mollem’ protests have been raging across Goa and taking the social media by storm. Even scientists, academics, teachers, students, business and industry bodies have all voiced their opposition to the wanton destruction of one of the eight hottest biodiversity hotspots in the world. It also comes at a time when an old video of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar has gone viral, which was first reported by TOI, where he clearly says his government would never give nod for double-tracking and it was an MPT fraud to transport coal. Parrikar’s video of just over 2 minutes clearly negates the view propounded by incumbent chief minister Pramod Sawant that double-tracking had nothing to do with coal transportation and was in “national interest”. If saving Goa’s environment was at the core of Ferrao’s homily, he also told devotees it is their responsibility to support families who have lost jobs and those experiencing want and poverty as a result of Covid-19. It was for the first time that thousands of devotees couldn’t descend on Old Goa for the novena and feast of St Francis Xavier. Many participated in the masses and novena online. In the chat box online, in addition to the regular petitions, devotees out of jobs during the pandemic prayed for work, some prayed to be kept free of Covid-19, while others offered prayers for the world coping with the pandemic. The feast Mass, instead of being organised in a pandal outside the Bom Jesus Basilica, was celebrated inside the basilica and was attended by around 200 people including politicians, 160 representatives from parishes, priests and nuns. Basilica rector Fr Patricio Fernandes said that up to 100 people will be allowed to attend Masses at the basilica from Friday onwards, where registration is compulsory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-mollem-rages-bishop-says-speak-up-against-green-damage/articleshow/79555867.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Allahabad||Book offers peek into how Urdu writers saw Ram||PRAYAGRAJ: People who can read Urdu and are interested in the life of lord Ram would no longer have to pour through several books to sate their curiosity, all thanks to a recent book published by Hindustani Academy which is a compilation of references from several texts about the Hindu deity. The book is based on the extensive research done by Prayagraj-based academician Ajai Malviya. A teacher of Urdu at Anglo Bengali Intermediate College, Malviya has been researching for the book for the past 28 years. Although there are several books written on lord Ram in both Urdu and Persian, the references are scattered in these books. Malviya has compiled the works of several renowned Urdu litterateurs in one book. Malviya has compiled every genre of Ramkatha written in Urdu. It contains references from books written by Talib Allahabadi, Asad Raza, Tahira Bano Saeed, Zafar Ali Khan, Hanif Zaidi, Mir Taki Mir, Akhtar Hussain, Saheb Akhtar, Firaq Gorakhpuri, Allama Iqbal, Nazir Akbarabadi, Shankar Dayal Fahrat, Braj Narayan Chakbast, Sahir Dehalvi and others. Moreover, Malviya’s book of Ramakatha includes different writing styles like manuscripts, prose, novels, drama, stories, ghazals, shayari and rubaiya as he wanted to unify various themes of Ramkatha in a single composition. “The book has about 350 pages and gives an insight into the work and life of Ram. It also focuses on his deeds as a son, husband, protector of sages and a common man and, how his principles have been inspiring several generations irrespective of religion and location,” said chairman OF Hindustani Academy Uday Pratap. Malviya completed his research in Urdu from Allahabad University in 1997. He knows Hindi, Bangla, English, Sanskrit, Urdu and Persian He has also written 10 books in Urdu and has also been awarded by the Urdu Academy in UP and Bihar. “Earlier students used to study even Urdu along with Sanskrit because of which many Urdu and Persian writers wrote about lord Ram and his life. However, things have changed since independence. Now, language is associated with a particular religion which pains me,” said Malviya. Malviya is also a member of Sahitya Kala Akademi in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/book-offers-peek-into-how-urdu-writers-saw-ram/articleshow/79552460.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Vehicle movement banned on all roads leading to Kodaikanal||Dindigul: Vehicle movement will be banned on all roads leading to Kodaikanal from 7 pm on Thursday as cyclone Burevi is expected to bring heavy rain in and around the hill station.Batlagundu, Adukkam and Palani are the main routes leading to the hill station. There are several places in these routes which are prone to landslides.Kodaikanal assistant collector Sivaguru Prabakaran said vehicles, including public transport, local vehicles and tourist vehicles, would not be allowed to use the roads until further orders. The order has been issued due to safety concerns.Kodaikanal has been receiving heavy rain since Thursday morning. It is expected to intensify on Thursday night when the cyclone crosses the Tamil Nadu coast.A giant stone fell on the Palani-Kodaikanal route near Kombaikadu last week after the hill station received heavy rain. An earthmover was used to remove the stone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vehicle-movement-banned-on-all-roads-leading-to-kodaikanal/articleshow/79555921.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Meerut||BSAs told to do reality check on distribution of midday meal grains, funds to schoolkids||Meerut: After announcing distribution of food grains and allowance for 1.5 crore students studying in state government-run schools for the lockdown period, the authorities concerned have now been asked to analyze the data on distribution of grains and funds taken via Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS). They have been asked to take action wherever necessary. The IVRS system was used to directly get in touch with parents and know about the ground reality. “To get an idea about the ground reality of distribution of funds and grains, calls to parents were made via IVRS and data was gathered for each district. All the district basic shiksha adhikaris are instructed to see that the said distribution is completed. However, if the contrary is found, strict action will be taken against those found at fault,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director, MidDay Meal Authority, in a letter. This order was issued following a decision by the government to provide the families of more than 1.5 crore government school students with the conversion cost and food grains for the Covid-19 induced lockdown period to lend a helping hand at a time of the Covid-19 outbreak. The order also said the money would be transferred only after the block education officers concerned provide the details of each student from Prerna portal to each school principal – who will further investigate the details before transferring the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bsas-told-to-do-reality-check-on-distribution-of-midday-meal-grains-funds-to-schoolkids/articleshow/79552533.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Inmate found hanging in prison toilet||Madurai: A remand prisoner killed himself by hanging inside the toilet of the Madurai Central Prison on Thursday morning. The deceased has been identified as M Baranivalavan, 33, of East Govindapuram in Dindigul. The Dindigul police arrested him and six others on September 25 for smuggling 300kg of ganja from Andhra Pradesh. Baranivalavan, who was one among the seven people arrested in this case was lodged in the Madurai prison. On Thursday morning, he went to a toilet in the prison where he hanged himself. He was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital, where doctors declared that he was brought dead. Police said he had left behind a suicide note, where he mentioned that he took the extreme step as he was upset with his family members for not taking steps to move a bail petition for him. The Karimedu police registered a case. This is the third suicide in the prison in recent months. Sudalai Mariappan of Rajapalayam, who was arrested in connection with the sexual assault of a minor girl, committed suicide in October. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/inmate-found-hanging-in-prison-toilet/articleshow/79555926.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||CR fells many Ajni trees without nod even before IMS work begins||Nagpur: Amidst protest over the proposed inter-modal station at Ajni, the Central Railway has come under scanner for large-scale illegal felling of trees. The trees were felled in anticipation of the old structure being demolished to make way for new residential quarters. Moreover, it has been done at a time when authorities have been assuring minimum environmental damage from the project. As reported by TOI, thousands of age-old trees are facing the axe for construction of a transport hub and an inter-modal station at Ajni. The Rs 1,288.81 crore project is proposed on the Central Railway land, a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species. The total project area, around 446 acres, also has old residential quarters of railway employees. The trees were cut on nearby land where the authorities plan to construct new residential towers. According to the officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the railways failed to obtain the mandatory permission before tree felling. “A large number of age-old trees were cut in two places for making residential towers and an office. At both the places, permission from garden department was not taken,” said garden superintendent Amol Chorpagar. A detailed inspection of the spot will be done by the garden department on Friday. Environment activists, who have compared satellite photographs of the said area of last four years, claimed the damage was much more. “Hundreds of trees have been illegally chopped off by the authorities. Strict action should be taken against the topmost railway officials. Despite knowing the rules, they failed to take permission,” said green activist Shrikant Deshpande. According to former honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das, the incident proves authorities’ indifference towards rules, leave aside their concern for the environment. “Secondly, this vindicates our stand that it is not about 1,900-odd trees that NHAI is harping on. The collateral damage may run way beyond 7,000 when this catastrophic project is executed on green island of Ajni. Alternatives have to be considered,” he added. He added that compensatory plantations against the felled trees should be ensured. The activists have been urging the authorities to consider alternative sites for the project which will involve less environmental damage. “If the authorities can’t even take mandatory permission for felling trees, how will they ensure minimum environmental damage while constructing the station? The project will destroy one of the last remaining green lungs of the city,” they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cr-fells-many-ajni-trees-without-nod-even-before-ims-work-begins/articleshow/79555160.cms||Manka Behl
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Computer class owner flouts Covid rules, held||Ahmedabad: A resident of Khokhra, Dipkal Joshi (43), was held on Wednesday for running computer classes without following social distancing and other Covid-19 guidelines. Joshi was arrested under Sections 51(b) of Disaster Management Act and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. As the sections are bailable, he was given bail at the police station. According to the Khokhra police, the class was found open at near Khokhra Urban Health Centre at about noon. “When we entered the computer class, students were found sitting there without the mandatory distancing. Hand sanitisers were not there and even thermal screening was not being done,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/computer-class-owner-flouts-covid-rules-held/articleshow/79555146.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: J P Dalal alleges foreign conspiracy behind farm protests||CHANDIGARH: Union home minister Amit Shah, during his recent visit to Hyderabad, said the ongoing farmers protest is not politically motivated but his own party’s agriculture minister in Haryana, J P Dalal, believes that foreign powers, including China, Pakistan and other enemy countries are trying to destabilise India. “It is not related to the cause of farmers, as several foreign powers like China, Pakistan or other countries, which are hostile towards India, want to destabilise the country in the name of farmers agitation,” said Dalal, addressing local mediapersons in Hisar on Wednesday. When asked about the growing resentment against the Centre, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not an “imposed king” but has the people’s mandate to govern the country. The minister equated farmers with “a patient who does not want to take medicine prescribed by the doctor apprehending that he may die after consuming it”. “The new laws have been introduced recently and without even giving some time to get to know the actual drawbacks of the new laws, farmers have launched a stir. They must have waited for some time to react. We were open to amend these laws if outcomes are against the interest of the farming community. They should not resort to protest at an early stage only on the basis of their unfounded apprehensions,” the minister said. Meanwhile, BJP’s alliance partner in Haryana, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Thursday demanded withdrawal of cases registered against the farmers by the state police during the ongoing agitation. JJP senior functionary Digvijay Chautala said he would meet Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and home minister Anil Vij and appeal to them for prompt action in this regard. Digvijay, younger brother of deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, said farmers had the right to protest to raise their concerns. He said meetings between farmers and the Union government were being held continually and the Union agriculture minister had also hinted at giving written assurance over MSP, which was a positive sign for ending this impasse. Digvijay said the party had been keeping a close watch on the ongoing development on the farmers protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dalal-alleges-foreign-conspiracy-behind-farm-protests/articleshow/79555161.cms||Ajay Sura
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Pkl MC polls on Dec 27||Panchkula: After a long wait of two-and-a-half years, Haryana state election department on Thursday finally declared the date for elections to the seats of mayor and councillors of all wards of Panchkula municipal corporation. The election will be held on December 27 from 8am to 4.30pm and re-poll, if any, would be held on December 29. Results will be declared on December 30 and new mayor and councillors will join duty from New Year.For the first time amid the pandemic, Panchkula will allow candidates to file nominations online. If it is a success, the model will be replicated in other districts in future by ththe e election commission.Dalip Singh, state election commissioner, said this year a mayoral candidate could spend Rs 22 lakh as election expenditure, which was Rs 20 lakh in the last term and members could spend up to Rs 5.5 lakh.The commissioner said the post of mayor would be filled through direct election. The eligible voters would elect the mayor, while earlier this seat was filled from amongst the elected members. However, the seats of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor would be filled as per the earlier practice—through indirect elections from the elected members. The commissioner said 20 wards with 1,85,644 voters would cast their vote at 176 polling booths, and 11 wards were reserved. There was no reservation for the post of mayor. The election office would accept the nomination papers from December 11 to December 16 between 11am and 3pm and last date for withdrawal of candidature was December 18, he said, adding that the department would issue symbols on December 18. Soon after the announcement, all parties called their meetings to discuss strategies and candidates. It will be a tough fight between the BJP and the Congress. The BJP has already launched its special strategies and appointed all senior party workers in Panchkula.The first elected mayor of Panchkula MC was Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia from the Congress. She was appointed on June 2, 2013, and served her five-year tenure. In 2013, there were 231 polling booths and 2,30,217 voters, including of Pinjore and Kalka, which now have their separate municipal councils. Keeping the pandemic in mind, the election commission will issue guidelines for the voters and candidates. There will be a provision made for Covid positive patients, who can caste vote after wearing PPE kit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/finally-pkl-mc-polls-on-dec-27/articleshow/79553769.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
December 4, 2020||Varanasi||Webinar on ‘Sustainable Devpt of Poorvanchal’ from Dec 10-12||GORAKHPUR: Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gorakhpur University and the Planning Department of the state government are organizing a three-day mega virtual seminar from December 10 to 12 on the topic ‘Sustainable Development of Poorvanchal: Issues, Strategies and Way Forward’. The inaugural address will be delivered by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, informed vice chancellor Prof Rajesh Singh. State ministers, top government officials including chief secretary, additional chief secretary (planning), principal secretaries of various departments will participate in the webinar. Director general of CSIR and ICAR, vice chancellors of several universities across the country, noted academicians and subject experts from across the country and globe are also expected to join the mega conclave, said Prof Singh. “The objective of the conclave is to identify the underdeveloped areas of Poorvanchal and brainstorm solutions in the form of concrete policy actions. An intensive interaction among academicians, researchers, practitioners, professionals, politicians, executives and the civil society will take place on a common platform to find a practical pathway for the all-round development of Uttar Pradesh in general, and for Poorvanchal in particular. The theme of the seminar relates to five major sectors: Primary sector, manufacturing sector, service sector, social sector and water sector,” said the VC. He added that four special sessions have also been planned which include industrial development meet, session on special package for Poorvanchal, bankers’ meet and a session of special organized groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/webinar-on-sustainable-devpt-of-poorvanchal-from-dec-10-12/articleshow/79553879.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Ground water table up as tanks in Madurai fill fast||Madurai: The recent rain has helped some of the waterbodies in the city brim while the remaining ones are filling up fast. The increase in water level day by day has benefited people from the residential pockets near the waterbodies as the ground water table level has also increased.There are 98 waterbodies in Madurai, of which 33 belong to the corporation. The civic body took up work on reviving the waterbodies with the help of NGOs, private companies under their corporate social responsibility fund last year. Corporation officials said that 22 waterbodies have been cleaned so far and works are under way to clean nine more. Two waterbodies are under litigation. However, inlet channels and outlet channels have been cleaned in all the 33 waterbodies so that storm water during this rainy season can be harvested. “Waterbodies like Sooravalimedu and Koosakulam tanks have filled to their brim and the inlet channels have been closed. Other channels are inching closer to capacity. Waterbodies such as Sempoorani, Silayaneri and Kamban Oorani have levels up to 22, 15 and 16 feet respectively as on Wednesday,” said a corporation official. V Jeevagan, a resident of Harveypatti said: “It has been several years since we have seen so much of water in the Sooravalimedu tank. With the bunks having been strengthened and desilting work completed, it is holding more water. We are sure that it will help to recharge the ground water table so that borewells do not go dry in summer.”Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that rainwater harvesting and restoration of waterbodies is one of the top priorities of the civic body. “We managed to revive the waterbodies only because of cooperation from residents, NGOs and private companies, who have come forward to take up the work,” he said. Another corporation official said the waterbodies will be kept under continuous watch. Meanwhile, the water level has reached five feet in the scenic Vandiyur Mariamman teppakulam on Thursday. With water from the dam also released into the Vaigai river, it is being diverted through the Panaiyur channel for the past few days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ground-water-table-up-as-tanks-in-madurai-fill-fast/articleshow/79555933.cms||V Devanathan
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Too little, too late: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Parkash Singh Badal returning award||CHANDIGARH: Punjab cabinet Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa minister on Thursday described the return of the Padma Vibhushan by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal as “too little, too late.” He said the decision of the Akali veteran smacks of shunning responsibility. According to Randhawa, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) cannot wash its hands off the sins committed by the party. It would have been far better had the Badal family and SAD tried to get farm laws repealed. “The NDA brought the anti-farmer ordinance with the concurrence of SAD. It is a well known fact that Harsimrat Kaur Badal was part of the Union cabinet which passed the ordinances,” the Congress leader maintained. “For three months, the SAD sang paeans of the ordinances and Parkash Singh Badal went as far as to praise the farm ordinances through a video message which Punjabis haven’t forgotten to this day,” he said. Randhawa stated that the SAD was forced to make Harsimrat resign from the cabinet in view of the strong opposition to farm laws but Badal’s “obdurate attitude” came in the way of him issuing a statement or releasing a video opposing the laws. “Why didn’t the Akali stalwart return the award at the time of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib and the firing upon innocent Sikhs who protested peacefully?” questioned Randhawa, adding that the CBI adopted delaying tactics in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/too-little-too-late-randhawa-on-badal-returning-award/articleshow/79555193.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Algal blooms turn sea along Agonda coast green and foamy||Poinguinim: The effects of global warming appear to have arrived at Goan shores, quite literally. From Wednesday morning, the sea along the Agonda beach in Canacona, South Goa suddenly began turning green. The water, which also turned very foamy, began emanating a foul stench. National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) director and scientist Sunil Kumar Singh said that it is due to algal bloom and that global warming was among the prime causes for the occurrence. An around 3km stretch of the sea at Agonda was affected. Locals and tourists, who were present at the scene, were taken by surprise. Soon there was panic, as by noon the foam had begun depositing on the shore, said local Ferdinand Fernandes. Those who were in the sea taking a dip or swimming were seen rushing out as the water began to change colour right before their eyes. Singh said that the foamy green water is caused by algal blooms, which are seen along the Maharashtra and Karnataka coast. Singh said normally such phenomenon is known to recur frequently in the Oman waters. “It’s because of green Noctiluca Scintillans. Though it is not toxic to humans, it reduces oxygen in seawater and hence is harmful to fish and other aquatic animals. The bad odour is due to high inter-cellular ammonia, which is released in water when it decomposes,” he said. A fisherman, Krishna Metri, said he had previously seen such waters in the deep sea while on a fishing trip during October last year, but not along the Goa shore. “We understand it is harmful and people should refrain from going into the waters to protect themselves from its harmful effects,” he said. Singh said that the occurrence is normally seen immediately after the monsoons, during the months of October and November and then in January and February. “There are many reasons for its occurrence. But a prime reason is because of climatic change. Global warming, melting of the Himalayan glacier followed by weakening of north-east monsoon could be responsible for such blooms. Silica deficiency in seawater or increase in reduced nitrogen such as ammonia over nitrate in water column could cause these algal blooms. Human induced pollution increasing nutrients in the coastal regions of the Arabian Sea could add to such blooms,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/algal-blooms-turn-sea-along-agonda-coast-green-and-foamy/articleshow/79555877.cms||Albert Fernandes
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Mixed turnout of students as some Madurai colleges reopen||Madurai: With the government allowing colleges to reopen for final year PG and research scholars from Wednesday and final year UG students from December 7, there has been mixed response from students so far.“We reopened for final year PG students from Wednesday following the SOP for Covid-19 safety. As far as attendance was concerned, lesser students turned up on Thursday, due to rain. We are prepared to reopen for final year UG students too by December 7 and students are also enthusiastic but we have to wait and see,” said Dr S Vanathi, principal, Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women. Similarly, Lady Doak College, another women’s college, also saw only fewer students return to campus.The American College has not reopened its campus for final year PG students and has decided against reopening on December 7 as well for final year UG students. “We are not in a hurry to reopen, especially as many of our students are still staying in places away from Madurai and they can’t return quickly on short notice. At present, we are having online semester exams and hence we are not looking to reopen any time soon,” said Davamani M Christober, principal of the college.Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science welcomed back final year PG students on Wednesday and the college is keen on completing all practical classes at a stretch. “We want to hold practical classes at a stretch and finish before December 11 so that semester exams can be conducted. Even in case of final UG students, they are mostly willing to come to college when we reopen on December 7. We will have classes for them such that only 50% of students are in one classroom,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mixed-turnout-of-students-as-some-madurai-colleges-reopen/articleshow/79555957.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Allahabad||UP Board to honour its illustrious alumni in centenary year in 2021||PRAYAGRAJ: UP Board would honour alumni of schools affiliated to it who have made a mark for themselves in various fields in a new initiative — Mission Gaurav — launched as part of celebrations for its centenary year in 2021. UP Board had already started the registration process for personalities who have brought laurels to the state and the country at the national or international level. Such alumni can register themselves at the board’s official website. . Several eminent personalities who have completed their schooling from schools affiliated to UP Board will be honoured under Mission Gaurav. “UP Board students are spread across the country and the world and, they can register themselves online. Board officials and programme organisers will then contact them if their achievements meet the criterion fixed by the board,” said UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla. The board has sought details like the applicant’s name, address, e-mail ID, the year in which he/she passed class X and/or XII examinations, the name of the school, roll number, name of the district, place of current residence, and the post on which they are employed or have retired from. The applicants have also been asked to summarise details of their achievements and field in which they have done outstanding work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-board-to-honour-its-illustrious-alumni-in-centenary-year-in-2021/articleshow/79552438.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kanpur||20-hour rescue op fails to save boy trapped in borewell in Mahoba||KANPUR: The four-year-old boy who fell into a 60-foot deep uncovered borewell in Budhaura village in Kulpahad police area in Bundelkhand’s Mahoba district on Wednesday has died. His body was recovered by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) after a 20-hour-long operation on Thursday. A borewell is a narrow shaft drilled into the ground to extract water. Ghanendra ,son of Bhagirath Kushwaha of Budhaura village ,had fallen into the borewell when he was playing with his sister Rekha while their father was irrigating the fields. The incident had occurred at around 1 pm on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/20-hr-rescue-op-fails-to-save-boy-trapped-in-borewell-in-mahoba/articleshow/79554324.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 4, 2020||Kanpur||Six killed in SRTC bus-tempo collision||KANPUR: Six persons were killed while three others critically injured in a collision between a SRTC bus and a tempo in Banda district on Thursday evening. “The accident took place at around 7 pm near Jamalpur village on Banda -Chilla road. The bus was coming to Banda from Kanpur, when it collided with a tempo,” IG Chitrakoot Dham K Satya Narayan said. The impact of the collision was so powerful that both the tempo got badly damaged and six passengers suffered serious injuries and died at the spot, said police. Some passengers stuck in the mangled tempo were rescued by police and locals. Bus driver, who initially managed to flee the mishap site, has been nabbed. The police have impounded the roadways bus. “The police identify five persons, while the identity of one other could not be ascertained. One injured was taken to Kanpur, two injured are undergoing treatment at district hospital in Banda,” said police further. Police said that during preliminary findings, it came to fore that the bus was running at a high speed, while tempo was overloaded and running at a greater speed too. “However, cops are conducting a technical inspection of the vehicles to find the exact reasons behind the accident and then lodge an FIR,” said IG further and added, “Five deceased belonged to Parpenda village in Dehat Kotwali of Banda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/six-killed-in-srtc-bus-tempo-collision/articleshow/79554396.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||BJP’s Mohan Lal calls return of Padma Vibhushan by Badal ‘escapism’||CHANDIGARH: Terming Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patron Parkash Singh Badal’s decision to return the Padma Vibhushan award as “escapism”, Punjab BJP senior functionary ’s Master Mohan Lal has said this was not expected from a person who loves to be called ‘messiah of farmers’. The Pathankot-based former cabinet minister told TOI when the five-time Punjab chief minister could convince then President Pratibha Patil in 2012 to get Balwant Singh Rajoana’s hanging stayed within hours, he could very well convince Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the issue of protesting farmers. Babbar Khalsa terrorist Rajoana was sentenced to death in August 2007 by the Chandigarh special CBI court for the assassination of Punjab chief minister Beant Singh on August 31, 1995. “It is escapism because when the situation is very grave and farmers are sitting in Delhi in this cold, Badal is sitting mum and just returning his Padma Vibhushan,” said Lal. Had Badal approached the Prime Minister, there was no question that Modi would not have listened to Badal, said the BJP leader, adding that Modi even touches Badal’s feet on stage. “Rather than approaching the Prime Minister or sitting with the protesting farmers at Delhi, this ‘messiah of farmers’ chooses to sit inside his cozy house in Lambi,” he alleged. “I am pained to say this because my association with Badal is over 50 years old as we had an alliance with the SAD in 1967. I was then a teenager. I have seen a fighter Badal then. But this Badal is now choosing escapism,” said the saffron party veteran. He said Badal should have fought the battle with farmers if he was convinced of their demands and tried to take farmers along for a meeting with the Prime Minister to find the solution at the earliest. “Returning of awards does not fetch a solution to any problem,” he concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjps-mohan-lal-calls-return-of-padma-vibhushan-by-badal-escapism/articleshow/79555216.cms||Sanjeev Verma
December 4, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar admin live streams interactive session on problems faced by women, girls||Muzaffarnagar: In a first, Muzaffarnagar district administration has launched a helpline number and a live platform on YouTube to facilitate women and girls to speak about their problems and be counselled on various issues like domestic violence, harassment, gender inequality and dowry among others. While the helpline number, 9756832703, will remain active 24x7, the live YouTube session, "Haq Ki Baat", will be conducted once a week by officials, said Mohammad Mushfakeen, district probation officer, who is in charge of women welfare department. On Thursday, a large number of women and girls took part in the live session which was presided over by district magistrate Selva Kumari J. They asked questions and aired their grievances. Officials from various departments were present. They answered their queries and tried to resolve their problems. City magistrate Abhishek Kumar took up several complaints from women and girls and assured them that these would be attended to. There many were who wanted to set up their business and go for higher studies. Selva Kumari J answered several questions. Mushfakeen said Thursday’s session was the second to be held. He said while the session was streamed live, several viewers posted their queries and problems as well. Several calls were also received on the helpline number. “The programme will be continued and the helpline number is available 24 hours for the needy people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-admin-live-streams-interactive-session-on-problems-faced-by-women-girls/articleshow/79552573.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 4, 2020||India||Government plans campaign to inject trust in vaccines||NEW DELHI: The rapid development of a vaccine against Covid-19 will be useful only if people accept it, as distrust or hesitancy may impede a major public health initiative, experts and doctors said while emphasising that the benefits of vaccination hugely outweigh the side-effects, if any. With concerns over adverse effects in some vaccine trials catching the public eye, the government feels the risks should be understood and not end up fuelling “vaccine hesitancy” on a wider scale. Accounts, often unverified or exaggerated, that speedy trials may have overlooked adverse events or compromised on efficacy and safety are circulating in social media in particular, prompting the Centre to consider a massive awareness campaign roping in celebrities and political leaders. Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said concerns related to adverse events are misplaced because a large number of patients have been administered vaccines globally and there are no significant adverse events reported from any major trials so far to signal an alarm. “None of the vaccines have shown any signifi-cant side-effects although a total of 70,000-80,000 people have been vaccinated if you put together the three ma-jor trials globally, including that by AstraZeneca,” Guleria said. The health ministry is keen to ensure that vaccines are not subject to adverse publicity, given the urgent need to arrest the disease and the gravity of the situation that has led to close to 15 lakh deaths globally. Officials said there is no way to prevent further “waves” without use of vaccines and safety measures like mask-use and sanitation. “For any disease, you have to do a risk-benefit analysis. The benefit of the vaccine in breaking the chain of transmission and reducing mortality among the high risk group is much more,” Guleria further added. Watch Government plans public campaign to inject trust in Covid-19 vaccines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-plans-campaign-to-inject-trust-in-vaccines/articleshow/79556466.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 4, 2020||Varanasi||Constable, 1 other injured in stone pelting in Deoria||GORAKHPUR: A constable and a police driver were injured when a mob pelted stones on a police team which had gone to Mishrouli village under Tarkulwa police station jurisdiction in Deoria district on the information of clash between two groups. Police had to use force to bring the situation under control. During the incident, a police vehicle was also damaged. Police have detained around half a dozen people and are interrogating them in connection with the incident. “Police went to Mishrouli village on the information of clash when some people attacked them injuring two policemen. Some people have been detained and after registering a case, police will take further action,” said Tarkulwa police station in-charge Pradeep Sharma. PRV driver Sanjit Sharma and constable Ramashish have been injured and are undergoing treatment at the district hospital. According to police, one Vishnudev’s sons Ashok, Krishnanand and Satyendra have a land dispute with their neighbour Barister Gupta. Gupta tried to make a temporary road on the disputed land to welcome a baraat (marriage procession) of his daughter scheduled in 2-3 days. Following this, both the groups clashed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/constable-1-other-injured-in-stone-pelting-in-deoria/articleshow/79553896.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Meerut||Only 14 UP Board schools provide details for exam centre in Meerut||Meerut: Just 14 UP Board schools have so far provided details for the exam centre identification in Meerut in response to an order by the district inspector of schools. The UP government had set December 5 as the deadline to submit the details. Once the details are in place, only then the schools will be identified for exam centre of the board exams. “Despite a December 5 deadline for all the government schools to revert with the facilities available at their institutions to identify them as an exam centre for board exams, only 14 have responded,” said Meerut district inspector of schools GK Chaudhary. The details of the schools were supposed to be uploaded on the state government‘s website portal. “All the school principals are instructed to ensure that the details of their schools, including internet connectivity and CCTV cameras, are uploaded on the government portal by December 5 or it will invite action,” said Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/only-14-up-board-schools-provide-details-for-exam-centre-in-meerut/articleshow/79552589.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 4, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Loco pilot held for raping, blackmailing minor girl||KANPUR: A loco pilot was arrested on Thursday by the city police for allegedly raping, filming and blackmailing a 13-year-old girl in the city. The accused has been identified as Abhishek Patel, a resident of Prayagraj. The complainant, father of the survivor, who lives in a locality under the limits of Govind Nagar police station, on Thursday told the police that a few days ago her daughter had narrated her ordeal to them and now they want to lodge an FIR against the loco pilot in this regard. “After luring her over some pretext, he sexually assaulted her and also made a video of the girl in an objectionable condition and started blackmailing her. He had also threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed about the rape to her family or anyone else,” said police. Superintendent of police (South) Deepak Bhuker said after registering a case under relevant sections of IPC besides POCSO Act, accused Abhishek Patel, who is a loco pilot and a native of Allahabad, was arrested and sent to jail. “We have seized Patel’s mobile phone which he had used to shoot objectionable video of the survivor and using the same to blackmail her. Further investigations are under way in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/loco-pilot-held-for-raping-blackmailing-minor-girl/articleshow/79554356.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Villages spread the warmth of pinnis for farmers braving winter cold||JALANDHAR/PHAGWARA: As it looks likely to be a long haul for the farmers holding protests at Delhi borders, Punjab villages have started preparing pinnis for them. The alsi (flaxseed) pinnis, which are quite popular in Punjab during winters, are being prepared with desi ghee, homemade gur (jaggery) and loaded with dry fruits. Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Jagatpur Jattan village, 8km from Phagwara, said they have already sent 15 quintal pinnis. “Two Canada-based NRIs, Jasbir Singh Kaler and Lakhwinder Singh Waraich, from the village mooted the idea and the villagers quickly joined hands to prepare 15 quintal pinnis. We have used good quality alsi, dry fruits and jaggery for the people from our state who are already there (at protest sites),” he said. That villagers also spent around Rs 50,000 to buy turbans and Rs 10,000 on mosquito repellents. The material reached Delhi last Friday, he added. At Nauli near Jalandhar, residents prepared five quintal pinnis in the village gurdwara. Former sarpanch Paramjit Singh said, “These will be taken to Singhu border in two vehicles. Our people will also stay there and distribute the pinnis among farmers who are already braving the winter cold,” said village sarpanch Hardev Singh. The villagers are scheduled to leave in the wee hours on Friday. Talwandi Madho village farmer Amrik Singh Sandhu said they had already collected funds for preparing at least three quintal pinnis for farmers at the Delhi morcha. “We have already brought good quality jaggery from Hoshiarpur for the purpose,” he said. A similar endeavour has also been taken up at Sohal Khalsa village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/villages-spread-the-warmth-of-pinnis-for-farmers-braving-winter-cold/articleshow/79555242.cms||IP Singh
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||Three held with firearms, cartridges in Rajkot||Rajkot: Three persons were detained with firearms and cartridges in Rajkot city and district in separate incidents on Wednesday night.In the first case, the accused, Rahim Sangh (39), was rounded up from Rasoolpara on Gondal Road with a country-made pistol and three live cartridges, worth Rs 20,300.“Sangh, a resident of Shramjivi Society on Dudhsagar Road, said that he had procured the firearm and ammunition from an arms dealer from Uttar Pradesh and that he needed the firearm for self protection,” said V K Gadhvi, inspector with Rajkot detection of crime branch (DCB).Sangh is a historysheeter involved in cases like physical assault and Arms Act. He has also been jailed under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act. “Sangh has been detained at present. He will formally be arrested once he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test,” added Gadhvi. In the second case, the accused, Vinod Zapadia (27), was nabbed with a country-made pistol worth Rs 10,000 from Kuchiyadalgam on Kuvadava Road on the outskirts of Rajkot. During his interrogation, Zapadia said that he had procured the firearm from an arms dealer from Madhya Pradesh and that he had kept the arm for self protection after he had a fight with someone, a year ago.Zapadia has been detained at present. He will formally be arrested once he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test. Prakash Parmar alias Pako was caught with a country-made pistol worth Rs 10,000 from Krishna Park Society near Shitala Temple in Shapar-Veraval of Kotada Sangani taluka in Rajkot district. In the past 10 days, the Rajkot DCB has seized five country made pistols, one revolver and 17 live cartridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-held-with-firearms-cartridges-in-rajkot/articleshow/79553867.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: As farmers head to Delhi, neighbours care for their fields||AMRITSAR: Protesting against the centre’s farm laws in Delhi and unable to look after their crops, agitating farmers received support from local residents, both farmers and others in the villages of Punjab. Farmers who have not gone to Delhi are looking after the crops of those agitating at the borders of the national capital. Farmers in Punjab sowed the wheat crop in November. Their crops need irrigation and application of urea in the first week of December, for which neighbouring farmers have come forward. “Village residents helped a lot in irrigating the field. One of my two sons died in an accident in 2011 while another is a driver. I have been assigned duty of langar preparation at the Delhi border. Almost 150 farmers from my native Sajla village went to Delhi for protest. Only my two daughters-in-law were home. After we left, while my son used to return at night. Farmers in my neighbourhood reached our house for application of fertiliser to crops and for irrigation,” said Ajaib Singh of Sajla village, who owns 5.5 acres of agricultural land. He said he is also district advisor to BKU (Ekta Ugraha) in Sangrur. A number of farmers have given their numbers to farm leaders, offering to care for protester’s fields in case of lack of manpower. BKU (Ekta Ugraha), Patiala general secretary Jaswant Singh said, “Farmers in villages, who were not taken for immediate participation, are irrigating the fields. Each one wanted to contribute to the protest. We have formed some groups on WhatsApp on which volunteer farmers and even mechanics and others are offering help for those agitating on the Delhi borders. Duties are being assigned.” With people back home taking up field duties, more and more farmers are reaching the outskirts of the national capital. Besides farmers, youngsters and activists of various social, youth and student organisations are also heading towards Delhi. Farm organisations are asking people back in Punjab to come in phases. They want representation of every one of the over 12,000 villages in Punjab as per the population of these villages. Mohinder Singh of Katar Singh Wala village in Bathinda said, “We are taking care of the wheat crop of farmers from our village who are camping at the Delhi border. We have told farmers not to worry about the crop, we have already sprayed urea on completing 30 days of sowing of wheat. We will keep taking care of their crops in the days to come.” Farmer Kartar Singh and Gurnam Singh from Droli Bhai village in Moga said, “We are on the way to Delhi and on reaching there, we will send farmers from our villages back.” In Amritsar, most farmers who went to Delhi to protest against the agri laws had already completed wheat sowing while those who are yet to harvest vegetables and sow wheat are being helped by their relatives who chose to stay back and fulfill their commitments. Suba Singh, a farmer of Dera Baba Nanak said at least seven of his relatives had gone to Delhi while he stayed back to harvest the vegetables and sow wheat in their fields. Normally, wheat sowing begins from October 20 and lasts till November 15 but farmers who had sown vegetables including peas, potatoes etc sow wheat by the end of November or till early December, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/as-farmers-head-to-delhi-neighbours-care-for-their-fields/articleshow/79555223.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Varanasi||SIT to probe mysterious death of three cousins||VARANASI: A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to investigate the mysterious death of three cousins in Mirzapur. The decision was announced by ADG, Varanasi zone, Brij Bhushan, who along with IG (Mirzapur range) Piyush Srivastava and SP Ajay Kumar Singh, inspected Lehdia dam in Vindhyachal area, where the bodies of the missing boys were recovered on Wednesday. The police had initially registered a kidnapping case, but injury marks found in post-mortem changed the course of investigation. Talking to TOI, the ADG said, “A panel of two doctors had conducted the post-mortem examination amid videography. As injury marks were found on the bodies, the case, which was initially registered under section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC, was converted into a murder case.” He said an SIT, comprising circle officers of Sadar, Vindhyachal, and Lalganj and special weapons and tactics (SWAT) team in-charge, has been formed under ASP (operations) Mahesh Atri to probe the case. He said the district police will continue its investigation separately. On December 2, Shyamnarain Tiwari of Bami village had given a complaint to the police, mentioning that his son Sudhanshu and nephews Shivam and Hariom — all aged 14 — had gone to a neighbouring forest but did not return till late evening. Lalganj police lodged a case of kidnapping and started a search operation. The police later recovered their clothes on the banks of Lehadia dam after which divers were pressed into service. On noticing injury marks on the boys’ neck and eyeballs, their family members cries foul and alleged that they had been murdered. The bereaved family members, along with hundreds of villagers, stopped the police from taking the bodies for autopsy. They also blocked the Varanasi-Mirzapur-Reewa highway and staged a massive demonstration. After the police assured that a murder FIR would be lodged, protesters agreed to handover the bodies to them. SP Mirzapur said the autopsy was conducted by a panel of doctors formed by the chief medical officer and the bodies were handed over to the family for cremation. Sudhanshu’s father Rajesh said his brothers Rakesh and Munnalal had come to his house along with their families to attend a wedding on November 30. Most of the relatives were resting after the ceremony, when Sudhanshu left home with cousins Shivam and Hariom. The family has denied enmity with anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sit-to-probe-mysterious-death-of-three-cousins/articleshow/79553934.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan: Gas widows monthly pension to be resumed||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday that the government will resume disbursement of Rs1,000 monthly pension to widows of gas victims. “This regular pension being given to ‘Kalyani sisters’ which was discontinued in the year 2019, will be resumed,” he said. Chouhan said that the capital should also have a special memorial for gas tragedy — which will be constructed soon and named ‘Prakash Stambh Smarak’. The chief minister was addressing the all religions prayer meeting held on the 36th anniversary of Bhopal Gas Tragedy at Barkatullah Bhawan in Bhopal. The chief minister also offered flowers on the symbolic portrait of the victims of Bhopal gas tragedy.Chouhan said that the gas tragedy victims have been exposed to serious health challenges. They are being provided complete treatment facilities on priority basis. In view of the Coronavirus pandemic, special attention is being paid to the treatment of such patients. Not only this, the citizens of old and new Bhopal, are also getting clean Narmada water. Garbage disposal arrangements related to gas tragedy have been made. Necessary steps will be taken to further strengthen them. Chouhan said that we have to make a human-friendly model of development. Let us save the environment and resolve that no city becomes Bhopal again. Chouhan said that humans have endangered humanity for their happiness. If the environment deteriorates, there would be destruction. While innocent civilians are killed by the atom bomb, there are also terrible consequences of manufacturing pesticides. He said that this Earth is made for everyone. Along with humans, animals, birds, pests, insects, rivers, seas, trees and plants are all part of the earth. Referring to the ill effects of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, Chouhan said that people running on the streets in confusion had died of suffocation due to the poisonous gas leak. Chouhan said that along with many citizens, I have been a witness to the tragic death of animals also. All such incidents are distressing and painful, he said. Religious gurus prayed for the welfare of mankind while reciting selected portions of sacred texts at the prayer meeting. Among those who were present on the occasion were Bhopal gas tragedy relief minister, Vishwas Sarang, MLA PC Sharma, former MLA Ramesh Sharma"Guttu Bhaiya" chief secretary, Iqbal Singh Bains, additional chief secretary, Mohammad Suleman, commissioner, Bhopal, Kavindra Kiyavat, officials of Bhopal district administration, other public representatives, representatives of various organizations and dignitaries. The programme was conducted by Santosh Tiwari. Those present paid tributes to the gas tragedy victims by observing two-minute silence. On this occasion, seating arrangements were made in adherence to the norms of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-gas-widows-monthly-pension-to-be-resumed/articleshow/79553841.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Meerut||Farmers’ stir an organic movement, but has helped opposition parties: RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary||Meerut: A day after Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary visited the protest led by farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Singhu border (connecting Haryana with Delhi), he claimed the protest was an organic movement which has put forth the farmers’ grievances with the controversial farm laws. “It is an organic movement and empowers all political players in opposition. A narrative has gone out that the farmers are not happy. This is the first accomplishment of this movement. Finally, there is glare on what the government claimed (to have achieved) in the agricultural sector and what the reality is,” Chaudhary told TOI. “People needed an outlet and this movement has become one for people across India, not just Punjab and Haryana,” he said. While attempts have been made to label the protests as politically motivated, Chaudhary maintained the ongoing farmers’ protests is a “social movement which has organically spread”. “Social movements were always powerful because people who do not have strong allegiance to any party, entity, leadership or ideology feel freer to align with such organic movements,” Chaudhary said. Meanwhile, to apprise the farmers about the controversial farm bills, RLD will soon begin a farmer outreach programme ‘Mera Gaon Mera Sangathan’ in western UP where the party is planning to reach out to local farmers at the grassroots level. “The narrative that is being put out that the farmers in UP are not going to be affected is wrong. But, at the same time, I believe the communication should be stronger at the grassroots level. We need to explain to the farmers of UP and other places that the new laws will affect them all,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-stir-an-organic-movement-but-has-helped-opposition-parties-rlds-jayant-chaudhary/articleshow/79552598.cms||Piyush Rai
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Another khap panchayat to join protests today||HISAR: Kajla Khap has also decided to support the peaceful movement of farmers against the three agricultural laws. In a meeting chaired by khap national president Rajmal Kajal and national patron Dharamvir Kajla, it decided that if there is no solution to the issue by Thursday, a group of 50 khap members each will reach Singhu and Tikri borders to join the farmers’ agitation from Friday. The khap’s Punjab unit is already taking part in the protests, Rajmal said. The National Kajla Khap has also demanded the release of farmer leaders arrested ahead of protests in Delhi and withdrawal of all cases against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-khap-panchayat-to-join-protests-today/articleshow/79555266.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Madurai airport shut, trains partly cancelled||Madurai: Madurai airport director S Senthil Valavan has informed that the airport would be closed for operations till 12 noon on Friday as a precautionary measure due to cyclone Burevi. Airline operators have been advised accordingly and they in turn will inform all affected passenger, he stated.  Similarly, Southern Railway has also announced changes in train services as follows: Partial cancellation of trains commencing journey on December 3: Train No.02693 Chennai Egmore - Tuticorin Special, between Madurai and Tuticorin. Train No.06236 Mysuru – Tuticorin Special, between Madurai and Tuticorin. Trains commencing journey on December 4: Train No.02694 Tuticorin - Chennai Egmore Special between Tuticorin and Madurai. Train No.06235 Tuticorin – Mysuru Special between Tuticorin and Madurai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-airport-shut-trains-partly-cancelled/articleshow/79555999.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Meerut||Tractor hits bike, runs over old woman riding pillion||Muzaffarnagar: A tractor ran over and killed a 65-year-old woman, after it hit a bike in which the woman was riding pillion. The rider, her son, lost control and the victim was thrown off the bike.According to police sources, Surendri Devi died on the spot. Police have taken custody of the body and sent it for postmortem, and, at the time when this report was filed, were completing formalities for booking the tractor driver, who had abandoned his vehicle and fled from the spot after the accident. The tractor has been seized by police.According to sources, the accident happened when the two residents of village Piplishah, under Titavi police station, were en route to the city. Police rushed to spot on receiving information and took mother and son to the district hospital, where the woman was declared brought dead. The son is being treated at the hospital. Rajesh Kumar Dwivedi, deputy superintendent of police (city), said, “A case has been registered in the matter and the body has been sent for postmortem. Further investigation is on.” Police sources said all attempts are being made to arrest the driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tractor-hits-bike-runs-over-old-woman-riding-pillion/articleshow/79552624.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||HC asks in CBI, trial courts to put off sacrilege cases’ proceedings till after it hears case||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Punjab as well as the Faridkot trial court hearing cases related to Punjab’s sacrilege incidents being probed by the CBI as well as the Punjab Police, to adjourn the proceedings pending before them beyond the date of HC hearing. With this, there would be virtual stay on the proceedings of these cases pending before both these courts till the issue regarding the continuance of CBI probe is decided by the high court. "Though till now no order has been passed by this court staying the hands of either court, however, it is considered appropriate to avoid any further complication, that the special CBI court, as also the trial court at Faridkot seized of the proceedings (with the charge still to be framed), be directed to adjourn the matter till beyond the next date of hearing before this court…," observed the HC in its orders released on Thursday. The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by a Dera Sacha Sauda follower Sukhjinder Singh alias Sunny Kanda and others. The petitioners have been arguing that since the matter is probed by CBI, the Punjab government’s SIT should not investigate the matter. It has been argued that the SIT report submitted on July 6 and subsequent proceedings by the local court is illegal, arbitrary, vexatious and a sheer abuse of process of law as the same very FIR of similar incidents is already under investigation with the CBI pursuant to the orders passed by the special CBI court Mohali. It has also been argued by the counsel for the petitioners that the SIT of Punjab Police has not proceeded as it should have, i.e. the procedure adopted by the SIT is highly questionable. The matter would now come up for hearing on December 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-asks-in-cbi-trial-courts-to-put-off-sacrilege-cases-proceedings-till-after-it-hears-case/articleshow/79555300.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 173 fresh cases and no deaths, central region 127 and two deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 173 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,29,794, which include 1,234 active cases, 1,26,492 recoveries and 2,068 deaths. No deaths were reported in the region for the second straight day. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 127 new cases taking the tally to 71,051, which include 970 active cases. With two deaths toll has been pushed to 901. Madurai (32) reported the most number of cases on Thursday, followed by Kanyakumari (30) and Tirunelveli (21). With 15 fresh cases, Dindigul sees a gradual rise in the number of cases. Madurai (225) and Dindigul (198) have the most number of active cases in the south. Except for Ramanathapuram, which reported a single case, the other districts, Tuticorin (19), Sivaganga (16), Theni (14) and Virudhunagar (14), reported cases in double digits. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. In the central region, Thanjavur district stands top with 32 new cases on Thursday. Trichy recorded 27 fresh cases, while Nagapattinam reported 22 new cases. Covid cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (19), Karur (12), Pudukottai (10), and Ariyalur (5). Perambalur recorded no case. The deaths were in Tiruvarur and Karur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-173-fresh-cases-and-no-deaths-central-region-127-and-two-deaths/articleshow/79556010.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||State nod to appoint Akola, Ytl SSH staff||Nagpur: The state cabinet has cleared the much-awaited recruitment at the proposed Super Specialty Hospitals (SSHs) attached to four Government Medical College and Hospitals (GMCHs). Apart from Aurangabad and Latur in Marathwada, these SSHs include 2 from Vidarbha — Akola and Yavatmal. While buildings for the SSHs are ready in both the GMCHs in Vidarbha, infrastructure was renovated and redeveloped during the Covid-19 phase. If everything goes well, these two SSHs will be important additions to Vidarbha’s healthcare infrastructure and medical education seat matrix. The most important hurdle in starting the SSHs was the required manpower, which has been cleared on Wednesday. The state government approved installation of 888 new posts for the first phase now. The government has also okayed Rs43 crore for the annual expenses of these posts. The posts include regular Group I, II, III, IV on-contract lecturers, and resident doctors. Remarkably, highest 344 posts have been approved for group IV on-contract recruitments. Staff has always been a big problem for medical colleges in Vidarbha. “Now, as per new provisions of the National Medical Commission, doctors for running the super speciality facilities will be roped in from private sector on contract basis. Visiting lecturers, and guest lecturers will be a new normal in the upcoming hospitals,” said a senior member of the Directorate of Medical Education while commenting on how the government plans to fill up the installed posts. “It’s a major breakthrough for the SSHs in both Akola and Yavatmal GMCHs. Our hospital buildings and major infrastructure are ready and we are looking forward to starting the facilities,” said dean of Akola GMCH Dr KS Ghorpade. Once started, both the SSHs will add more than 400 undergraduate and 50-plus postgraduate seats in Vidarbha. With this, the region will have three SSHs. At present, only Nagpur GMCH has an SSH facility. Patients from periphery, who need to travel straightaway to Nagpur for serious illnesses, will get treatment at the regional level, it is expected. Super Benefits Of The SSHs At present, only Nagpur GMCH has SSH in Vidarbha Akola SSH will have 238 beds, Yavatmal 210 New SSHs will reduce burden on Nagpur GMCH SSHs will have departments in six subjects — cardiology, cardiovascular thoracic surgery (CVTS), neurology, neurosurgery, urology, nephrology, plastic surgery and neonatology Besides these, the SSHs will also have intensive care units SSHs will also have facility of 44 ICU beds, dialysis beds and operation theatre complexes New facilities will bring in significant number of PG medical seats for Vidarbha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-nod-to-appoint-akola-ytl-ssh-staff/articleshow/79555311.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra businessmen cheer Joe Biden’s China statement||RAJKOT: American president-elect Joe Biden sent cheers across Saurashtra’s industrialists with his statement about China. Exporters here were afraid change of hands in America power corridors may ease the ongoing cold trade war between USA and China, which would adversely impact the India’s trade prospects. President Donald Trump’s anti-China policy and the trade war had been a boon for Saurashtra’s exporting industry. With Biden making his statement that he is not going to make any immediate changes including not lifting tariffs placed by Trump on many imports from China or break Trump’s initial trade deal immediately came as huge relief for the domestic industry. Soon after lockdown, Saurashtra exporters witnessed sudden rise in exports which was a result of the USA-China trade war and the raging anti-China sentiments in European market. Unit owners in Morbi’s ceramic cluster are expecting a total rise of 30 percent by the end of current financial year despite factories remaining closed for nearly three months and current migrant labour crisis. The total export of Morbi’s ceramic industry is nearly Rs 12,000 crore per annum. According to industry stakeholders, India always remained second in the absence of China in the world market. “After the US-China trade war started in the current financial year, our exports to the US rose by eight to 10 times approximately, even as exports to the Gulf countries reduced dradtically owing to the anti dumping duty. Despite this, we are expecting that this year’s total export will be more than last year’s,” Nilesh Jetpariya, president of Morbi Ceramic Association told TOI. The second most benefited sector from the anti-China wave is Rajkot’s engineering sector. Despite lockdown, this sector was growing only because of good export demand. So much so that units even declared bonus for its employees, while it cut Diwali vacations to meet export demands. President of Rajkot Engineering Association, Paresh Vasani said, “Export of auto parts and other engineering products increased by 25 to 30 percent in the current fiscal year in the US and European countries, thanks to the US-China trade war and anti-China sentiments.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-bizmen-cheer-bidens-china-statement/articleshow/79553915.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Sohna brand honey qualifies purity tests by CSE: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Thursday Asia’s largest cooperative ‘Markfed’ has once again reposed trust of consumers, as its honey has successfully withstood purity tests conducted by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). He said out of 13 top brands available in the country, Markfed’s three brands — Markfed Sohna, Safola and Nature’s Nectar – passed all key tests in line with international standards. He said many renowned brands failed the purity tests and were compromising human health during the Covid-19 pandemic. Markfed had ventured into the field of honey processing in 2015-16. Randhawa said a state of the art honey processing plant was established at Chuharwali village on Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road in 2016 with a cost of Rs 15.50 crore. The capacity of this plant is 3,000 metric tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sohna-brand-honey-qualifies-purity-tests-by-cse-randhawa/articleshow/79555339.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Spl schools fear rise in dropouts as they remain shut||Madurai: With no possibility of reopening any time soon, schools catering to children with special needs in Madurai are struggling to provide proper care and fear a rise in dropouts, especially those from poor families. While some parents are keen on these schools reopening, special educators said that it was disappointing to see that the government is yet to make any announcement regarding reopening or some form of relief for the welfare of special children.“We are holding online classes through video conferencing for few hours every day to engage our students. We are also providing support and counselling for the parents. For some students, who are highly distracted, we try to have separate classes. Though we tried to bring in home schooling, it did not work out,” said Jeyapal A, founding member, Bethshan Special School. He said that during a consultation held with parents, 50% of them wanted schools to reopen at the earliest while the rest insisted on waiting till a vaccine is made available.K Maheshwari, a parent of a special child said that she is unable to continuously keep her son engaged at home. “I’m working as a teacher and I’m not able to focus on my work since I have to pay full attention on my son. If I don’t keep him engaged, I’m worried he will feel isolated and have behavioural issues. Even for online classes, I need to pay full attention and be with my daughter. After that, I also have to get her to learn and do some homework. It is a lot of burden on parents,” she said. Online classes are only a temporary fix and is highly limited, especially for children with special needs. “In the beginning, when we started online learning, students were excited that it is something new and parents were also patient. However, now both don’t have the same enthusiasm so we’re definitely worried as to how things will be in the long run,” said J Shamila Doris, correspondent, YMCA Kamak higher secondary school.Special educators were apprehensive of how children with special needs will be impacted due to shutting down of schools. “The learning development of children will be affected. They have only short term memory and many parents fear their children will forget what they learnt. When schools are reopened, it will be a challenge to assess all students and plan their learning,” said Jeyapal.Doris said that efforts are being taken to counsel parents and students to continue education and avoid making children go for work. “It is unavoidable as many children with special needs are from poor families. The possibility of rise in dropouts is very much high among such children,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spl-schools-fear-rise-in-dropouts-as-they-remain-shut/articleshow/79556017.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 4, 2020||Goa||Centre for auction, Goa miners say no, want amendment||Panaji: Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi on Thursday proposed that the mining leases in the state be auctioned to restart mining activity. The main trading body of mine owners — Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association (GMOEA) — however, opposed the move and sought an amendment to the law so that mining can continue in Goa till 2037. The Union minister held a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant, mines secretary and GMOEA representatives. During the meeting, Joshi asked Sawant and GMOEA to explain why leases should not be auctioned in Goa and told them to make more submissions if they want. GMOEA explained the issue to the minister. Joshi assured to take necessary steps to restart mining in the state. He said that the government would expedite the auction. “GMOEA told the mines minister about the problem that would be faced if leases are auction and said that it would delay resumption of mining activities,” Sawant told TOI. He said that he had requested the Union minister to take necessary steps to restart mining in Goa. GMOEA secretary Glenn Kalavampara told TOI that they explained to the Union minister that there are vested rights if auctioning is done and the ministry is aware about it. “What we are seeking parity with rest of India because the new law says that the tenure of the lease should be 50 years,” he said. He also said that Goa got leases in 1987 and “if we go by the law then the lease should be valid from the day concessions were converted into leases in 1987”. As per the amendment to MMDR Act, 2015, leases are valid for 15 years. The Union government is considering the validity of leases from 1961 for 50 years. Sawant had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to amend the relevant act to allow mining operations to continue till 2037. The Union government is considering the validity of leases from 1961 for 50 years. The state government wants the Union mines ministry to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities. Mining activities in the state came to halt from March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-for-auction-goa-miners-say-no-want-amendment/articleshow/79555848.cms||Murari Shetye
December 4, 2020||Amritsar||PMU formed to look after brass tacks: ETPB||AMRITSAR: A day after India accused Pakistan of violating the spirit of a UN resolution it had itself sponsored by transferring the control of the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara to a non-Sikh body, the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) reiterated that the Project Management Unit (PMU), an all Muslim government body, will only look after the brass tacks while the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) will continue to be an overarching body. On November 3, the Pakistan government had formed PMU and appointed all-Muslim nine-member team led by chief executive officer Mohammad Tariq Khan, who is also additional secretary, shrines, ETPB. The formation of PMU evoked sharp criticism from various Sikh bodies as well as the Indian government. In his address at the 75th session of the United Nations General Assembly on Wednesday, First Secretary in India’s UN Mission, Ashish Sharma had stated: “Pakistan has already violated the earlier resolution on Culture of Peace passed last year by this very assembly. Last month, Pakistan arbitrarily transferred the management of the Sikh holy shrine - Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara, from Sikh community body, to the administrative control of a non-Sikh body. This act goes against Sikh religion and its preservation and protection. You will recall that this holy Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara finds mention in that earlier resolution. That resolution stands violated by Pakistan”. Talking to TOI over the phone from Lahore on Thursday, ETPB chairman Aamer Ahmad claimed that PMU would only look after the administrative part whereas the PSGPC would take all decisions regarding religious affairs and decide on policy matters. Distancing himself from the political statements, Ahmad explained, “There have to be purchases of lots of items for offices, appointment of janitorial and other staff, clearing their holidays, their hiring and firing, the signing of cheques and a lot of other things which has to be done by a government department and not by PSGPC, which is a private body.” Security agencies here are of the view that Kartarpur corridor complex which also has the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib was controlled by Pak’s ISI through ETPB to find ‘soft targets’ among the visiting Sikhs and instigate them to wage a war against India in the name of Khalistan. Many villages like Masroor Bara Bhai situated close to Kartarpur Sahib are known as the launching pad for terrorists into India. “PSGPC must be looking after all the management affairs of the gurdwaras under its control, including the appointment of staff, their suspension, termination, and other administrative work. Stating that PMU was solely constituted for the administrative task, is nothing but a lame excuse,” said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pmu-formed-to-look-after-brass-tacks-etpb/articleshow/79555314.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Assembly passes Disha, land titling Bills||Vijayawada: The state assembly passed the Andhra Pradesh Disha (Special Courts for Specified Offences against Women and Children Bill) and the Andhra Pradesh Land Titling Bill by voice vote on Thursday, the fourth day of the assembly’s winter session. Home minister Mekathoi Sucharitha, who tabled the Disha Bill, said the previous bill has been withdrawn and the new Bill has provisions for speedy trial. The previous Bill was returned to the state by the central government with some corrections, which have now been incorporated in the new Bill, she said. The minister further informed that 18 Disha police stations were set up across the state which have received ISO certification as women and child friendly police stations. A Disha app has been launched and 12 lakh people have downloaded the app till date, she said. The Bill was passed by voice vote and all members welcomed it. The House also passed the Andhra Pradesh Land Titling Bill, which proposes to provide permanent land ownership and settle disputes over boundaries and ownership. Revenue minister Dharmana Krishna Das said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy took a historic decision, for the first time in the country, by introducing this Bill and the government will distribute land titling pattas once the comprehensive survey is completed. The Bill was passed by voice vote. The House also passed the AP Municipal Laws (second amendment) Bill as per Article 197 (1) of the Constitution, which proposes to amend the house tax structure by a nominal hike. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana said the Bill was rejected by the legislative council and was again introduced in the assembly. The Bill too was passed by voice vote for a second time. The opposition took objection to contents of the Bill which were clarified by the minister. The House also passed the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (amendment) Bill, tabled by energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy. The minister explained the amendments to the Bill and it was passed by voice vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/assembly-passes-disha-land-titling-bills/articleshow/79552663.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Input subsidy to be credited by Dec 30’||Vijayawada: The Krishna district administration has assessed that incessant rains on November 27 and 28 during cyclone Nivar have damaged crops on 1.84 lakh hectares. The administration has intensified estimate of crop damage and expects to complete the assessment by December 15. Addressing the media here on Thursday, district collector A Md Imtiaz said, “Farmers are in distress due to crop damage. Around 16.15 lakh tonnes of paddy were estimated to be harvested this season and we are ready to procure it” Input subsidy will be credited to the accounts of farmers by December 30, the collector said, adding that 10% of the damaged paddy will be procured. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/input-subsidy-to-be-credited-by-dec-30/articleshow/79552686.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nashik||Two arrested from Delhi for duping Nashikite of Rs 19.6 lakh||NASHIK: Two people, including a Nigerian national, have been arrested from Delhi by the cyber crime police for cheating a Nashik resident of Rs 19.6 lakh under the garb some business venture. Deputy commissioner of police Sangramsing Nishandar said, “Based on electronic and other concrete evidences, the cyber crime police have arrested the suspects for cheating the complainant in the month of October. One of the suspects is a Nigerian, while the other is a resident of New Delhi.” The suspects have been identified as Victor Dominic Okon (42) and Pawankumar Harkesh Bairava. They were arrested from a bank where they had come to withdraw the money deposited by the complainant. The duo was presented before a local court that has remanded them in police custody till December 7. According to an official from cyber crime police, the complainant had alleged that he was cheated by three people. “The complainant met a woman named Monika Singh (a fake person) on a dating app. Singh contacted the complainant on WhatsApp and while talking she informed that she was working with Bortad Pharmaceutical Company in Amsterdam as assistant production analyst. She also informed that her company required ‘Ogrinma Herbal Oil Extract’ a raw material imported from Indonesia,” the official said. “Singh after winning the confidence of the complainant asked him to be part of the business and send the required material that can be procured from one Rajesh Nandi, a resident of Karnataka, at a lower rate and earn good profit. The complainant ordered the six liter material from the person and then travelled to Bangalore to meet the executive of the company as suggested by Singh to get the sample tested,” he added. After being told that the sample was perfect Singh asked the complainant to buy the oil for the company. The complainant paid Rs 19.6 lakh to Nand after neither did he recive the oil nor the money. Realising that he has been cheated, the complainant lodged a police complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-from-delhi-for-duping-nashikite-of-rs-19-6l/articleshow/79551840.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||International airport to remain closed from 10am to 6pm today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Trivandrum International Airport will remain closed on Friday from 10am to 6pm in view of the threat posed by Cyclone Burevi that will pass through the district in the afternoon. As per the decision taken by the authorities concerned, the airport will not operate except for search, rescue and relief operations. District collector Navjot Khosa said that a review meeting will be held at 4pm on Friday. During this meeting, the conditions will be assessed according to which the decision on resuming operations will be taken. As many as six flight services will be affected owing to suspension of operations. These include seven domestic flight services and two services that are part of Vande Bharat Mission. Trivandrum-Bengaluru Indigo flight that departs at 10 am, Hyderabad-Trivandrum Indigo flight that arrives at 10.15 am, Delhi-Trivandrum Vistara flight that arrives at 10.45 am, Chennai-Trivandrum Indigo flight that arrives at 11.10 am, Kannur-Trivandrum Indigo flight that arrives at 1.10 pm, Bengaluru-Trivandrum Indigo flight that arrives at 5.20pm and Delhi- Trivandrum Air India flight that arrives at 4.50pm are the domestic flights which have been suspended. Air India Express and Indigo flights scheduled to depart to Sharjah at 1.40pm and 1.55pm respectively are the Vanda Bharat Mission flights that have been suspended. The district collector also said that there will be no restrictions for public movement in the district on Friday. Public transport will also be operational. However, people are still advised to remain indoors during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/intl-airport-to-remain-closed-from-10am-to-6pm-today/articleshow/79561436.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab announces Sahitya Ratna, Shiromani awards since 2015||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab languages department has announced Sahitya Ratna and Shiromani awards for 18 different categories of literature and art. Punjab higher education and languages minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa congratulated all the awardees while releasing the list. Punjabi Sahitya Ratan went to Om Prakash Gasho (for 2015), Gurbhajan Bhullar (2016), Gulzar Singh Sandhu (2017), Fakhr Zaman (2018), Tejwant Mann (2019) and Barjinder Singh Hamdard (2020). Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar award was given to Joginder Singh Kairon (2015), Taran Gulzar (2016), K L Garg (2017), Atarjit Singh (2018), Kirpal Kazak (2019) and Manmohan (2020). Shiromani Hindi Sahitkar award recipients include Vinod Shahi (2015), Sukhwinder Kaur Bath (2016), Raji Seth (2017), Bali Singh Cheema (2018), Ajay Sharma (2019) and Kirti Kesar (2020). Shiromani Urdu Sahitkar awardees are Mohammad Fayaz Farooqi (2015), Nadeem Ahmed Nadeem (2016), T N Raj (2017), B D Kalia Hamdam (2018), Mohammad Bashir (2019) and Rehman Akhtar (2020). Shiromani Sanskrit Sahitkar award was conferred on Rama Kant Angrish (2015), Ved Prakash Upadhyay (2016), Damodar Jha (2017), Kanhiya Lal Parashar (2018), Virender Alankar (2019) and Sharan Kaur (2020). Shiromani Punjabi critic/research writer awardees are Satinder Singh, Baldev Singh Cheema (2016), Amarjit Grewal (2017), Dhanwant Kaur (2018), Sukhdev Singh Sirsa (2019) and Surinder Kumar Deveshwar (2020). Shiromani Punjabi singer/musician award went to Charanjit Ahuja (2015), Ranjit Kaur (2016), Sardul Sikandar (2017), Harbhajan Maan (2018), Pali Devtaliya (2019) and Major Singh for 2020. Shiromani Punjabi journalist award recipients are Kuldeep Singh Bedi (2015), Harbir Singh Bhanwar (2016), Surinder Singh Tej (2017), Charanjit Singh Bhullar (2018), Davinder Pal (2019) and Jagir Singh Jagtar (2020). Shiromani Punjabi Sahitk Patarkar award went to Gurbachan (2015), Balbir Parwana (2016), Poonam Prittalari (2017), Harjinder Walia (2019), Kanwarjit Bhattal (2019) and Darshan Dhillon (2020). Shiromani Punjabi Gyan Sahitkar award was conferred on Madan Lal Hasija, Harpal Singh Pannu (2016), Anoop Singh (2017), Gian Singh (2018), Gursharan Kaur Jaggi (2019) and Ninder Ghugianvi (2020). Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar (foreign) award went to Sadhu Singh Big (2015), Iqbal Mahil (2016), Harjeet Atwal (2017), Ravinder Sehra (2018), Sukhwinder Kamboj (2019) and Balwant (2020). Shiromani Punjabi Sahitkar awardees (outside Punjab) include Jaspal Singh (2015), Jagbir Singh (2016), G D Chaudhary (2017), Swaran Singh Virk (2018), Barjinder Chouhan (2019) and Ravi Ravinder (2020). Shiromani Punjabi Bal Sahit writer award went to Avtar Singh Deepak (2015), Harbans Singh Chawla (2016), Karnail Singh Somal (2017), Kulbir Singh Suri (2018), Tejinder Harjeet (2019) and Baljinder Mann (2020). Shiromani Raagi award was given to Bhai Randhir Singh (2015), Bhai Narinder Singh (2016), Bhai Ravinder Singh (2017), Bhai Maninder Singh (2018), Jasbir Kaur (2019) and Bhai Gurmel Singh (2020). Shiromani Thadhi/Kawishar award went to Hans Singh Manikheda (2015), Jagdev Singh Chhajli (2016), Mukhtiyar Singh Jafar (2017), Fazaldin Lohatbadhi (2018), Balbir Singh Beela (2019) and Dalbara Singh Ubha (2020). Shiromani Punjab Natak awardees are Pran Sabharwal (2015), Kailash Kaur (2016), Nawnidra Behal (2017), Jaswant Kaur Daman (2018), Satish Kumar Verma (2019) and Sahib Singh (2020).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-announces-sahitya-ratna-shiromani-awards-since-2015/articleshow/79555346.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||Woman with learning difficulties reunited with family in Nagpur||Rajkot: A woman with learning disability from Nagpur in Maharashtra was reunited with her family with the help of voluntary organisation Sakhi in Jamnagar on Thursday.The woman, Radha (name changed), was found near Khambhaliya Gate at Khijada Temple in Jamnagar on November 16. A concerned citizen called up the 181 women helpline and informed about the woman. “The 181 women helpline contacted us, following which we shifted the woman to our shelter home. Radha was found to be psychologically distressed. She told us that she left her home in Nagpur without telling anyone. She had earlier married a person in Hapa of Jamnagar district,” said a volunteer of ‘Sakhi’ one stop centre. “On investigation it was revealed that her husband had divorced her, owing to her mental illness. The woman gave her husband’s contact number, following which we called him at our centre. The woman’s husband gave us the numbers of the woman’s sister and mother in Nagpur,” added the volunteer. As the woman’s mother was too old to travel and that her other daughter too suffered from mental illness, Sakhi sought the help of Jamnagar police and Jamnagar railway authorities. The Jamnagar railway officials confirmed the woman’s ticket and reservation and the Jamnagar police sent a woman constable to accompany the woman to Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-with-learning-difficulties-reunited-with-family-in-nagpur/articleshow/79553965.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Speeding van kills three girls in Kollam||Kollam: Three young girls were killed after a speeding pick-up van rammed them at Urukunnu junction on Kollam–Thirumangalam national highway near Thenmala around 3.45pm on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Salini (14) and Sruthi (11) – daughters of Alex and Sindhu – and Kesia (16) daughter of Kunjumon and Suja. The families are neighbours and reside in Urukunnu area. Kesia has a brother named Tison. Sruthi and Kesia died on the spot while Salini died on the way to Thiruvananthapuram medical college. The pickup van fell into a wayside paddy field after the accident. Salini and Sruthi were going to their uncle Santhosh’s shop when the pick-up van, returning to Tamil Nadu, hit them. Though people rushed the three children to Punalur taluk hospital, Kesia and Sruthi were declared dead. Their bodies were later shifted to the mortuary. The driver of the van, Venkitesh, has been taken into custody. Alex is the NDA candidate in Netaji ward of Thenmala grama panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/speeding-van-kills-three-girls-in-kollam/articleshow/79551240.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Funds sanctioned in February, road work yet to start||VISAKHAPATNAM: Villagers of 12 tribal villages in Ananthagiri mandal of Visakhapatnam district plan to launch protests against the district administration for not laying a black top road in their area. This, despite the district collector sanctioning Rs 19 crore for the road project over 10 months ago. The villagers have warned that if road-laying works do not start in a month’s time, they will lay siege to the ITDA office. The ‘Chalo ITDA’ call was given after a recent meeting attended by villagers from Kivarla, Pedakota and Pinakota panchayats. It may be recalled that around 300 tribals started building a kaccha road in hilly terrain and completed it in six months. After coming to know about it, district collector V Vinay Chand sanctioned Rs 19 crore to build a 27km black top road in the area. When asked for his reaction, Vinay Chand said he had sanctioned Rs 19 crore for laying of black top road in the area. “It is NREGS work. The problem is all works stopped for nearly six months due to Covid-19. There was complete lockdown in April and May, while limited number of labour were permitted for all wage component works from June till September,” he told TOI. “Now that civil works have resumed with due precautions, I will ensure the work is completed as early as possible,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/funds-sanctioned-in-feb-road-work-yet-to-start/articleshow/79552698.cms||Siva G
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Multi-crore scholarship scam: SIT arrests director of four private ITIs for siphoning off Rs 3.46 crore||Dehradun: The special investigation team probing the multi-crore scholarship scam has arrested the director of four private Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) for allegedly siphoning off Rs 3.46 crore from the state welfare department. The accused, Anil Kumar, was arrested from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh. According to SIT officials, the accused transferred the money meant for students belonging to the SC and ST community into his account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/multi-crore-scholarship-scam-sit-arrests-director-of-four-private-itis-for-siphoning-off-rs-3-46-crore/articleshow/79552702.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Case lodged after truck driver, aides thrash disabled man at toll plaza||Roorkee: Days after a 28-year-old disabled man was allegedly thrashed by a truck driver and his aides at a toll plaza in Bhagwanpur near Roorkee following an altercation over a minor accident, the local police have now lodged a case in the matter. The incident had taken place on Sunday evening when Ankit Saini and his relative were at the toll plaza in their car and a truck allegedly hit their vehicle, damaging the car. This led to an argument between the truck driver and Ankit. In a matter of a few minutes, the truck driver called his friends and they started to thrash Ankit and his relative. The whole incident was captured by the CCTV. “Ankit was brutally thrashed by miscreants and he has sustained grievous injuries on head, face, and other parts of his body. However, the police have not registered the crime in appropriate sections of the IPC, including section 307,” said Dr Jodh Raj Saini, grandfather of the victim. Meanwhile, SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI, “We have done nothing wrong. The victim’s complaint and medical reports do not point out the need for section 307 to be included in the FIR.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/case-lodged-after-truck-driver-aides-thrash-disabled-man-at-toll-plaza/articleshow/79552715.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||West Maharashtra millers in a spot as Covid-19 scare keeps sugarcane cutters away||KOLHAPUR: The fear of Covid-19 spread has kept the cane-cutting workers away this season, leaving the sugar mills of western Maharashtra in severe crisis. Every year, lakhs of migrant workers travel from the parched Marathwada region after Diwali to the sugar cane fields of western Maharashtra. Here, they spend the next five months cutting sugar cane and transporting it to the factories. They return home in April but were forced to stay back after the lockdown was announced. Now, most of them are hesistant to come back to Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara. Sources from the sugar industry told TOI that there has been 25% drop of arrival of migrant workers. This is compelled factories to look for local workers or mechanised cutting of the crop. Jayprakash Dandegaonkar, chairman of Maharashtra state cooperative sugar factories federation ltd, said, “The mills were finding themselves in a helpless situation as workers had refused to come despite all the medical arrangements made by the factories. Satara, Sangli and Kolhpur districts are facing this situation mainly because of geographical distance. Areas close to Marathwada like Ahmednagar and Solapur districts are not facing much problem.” Sources in the sugar industry said that the workers had not turned up for cane cutting despite being given advance by the factories through contractors. Sugar mills have started facing the heat from farmers, who are insisting that the cane be harvested. Sugar expert P G Medhe said that the delay in cane cutting would affect the recovery and sugar production. “Several workers have preferred to go to neighbouring states of Gujrat and Karnataka, despite being paid advance. Covid-19 situation in these three districts was serious till Diwali and the fear kept many workers away. Sadanand Patil, a farmer from Karad tehsil, said that he was going to the sugar factory every day to ensure that his cane is taken for cutting but was of no use. “We are told every day that there are no workers. I will face losses if cane is not cut on time.” The three districts have around 57 private and cooperative sugar factories and almost all of them are engaged in crushing of cane in the current season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/millers-in-a-spot-as-covid-19-scare-keeps-sugar-cane-cutters-away/articleshow/79551842.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covaxin phase III trial begins in Nagpur||NAGPUR: City’s Rahate Hospital has commenced Phase III trials of Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine for Covid-19 being manufactured by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, in partnership with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Earlier, phase I and II trials of this vaccine were held at city’s Dr Gillurkar Hospital. Now, about 1,000 volunteers are going to be administered the vaccine in next 10 days. Already, 300-plus have been administered the vaccine, informed Dr Prashant Rahate, director of the hospital, who is heading the activity. Bharat Biotech has said that phase III trials will involve 26,000 volunteers across India. Total 22 hospitals in the country are involved in this trial. In Maharashtra, trials are being held at JJ Hospital and Sion Hospital in Mumbai. Rahate Hospital is the only centre in Maharashtra outside Mumbai. “Open enrolment policy is in practice for this phase. Those interested in becoming volunteers are visiting our hospital daily and undergoing tests. Those who clear all medical parameters are invited for vaccination accordingly,” said Dr Rahate. According to him, the response from volunteers is overwhelming. “There is no dearth of volunteers. We are following all necessary rules and regulations. Focus is on healthy people between 18 and 65 years of age. Apart from this, 25% volunteers are from high-risk groups,” Dr Rahate said. The high-risk patients include those who have controlled co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and immunosuppressant diseases like chronic kidney disease. Similarly, health service providers including doctors, health workers, and sanitation workers etc, who worked in Covid hospitals are being administered this dose. Volunteers from across Vidarbha will participate in this phase of the trial. Covaxin is a highly purified and inactivated vaccine. It is manufactured in a cell manufacturing platform and has an excellent safety track record. In earlier two phases, not a single volunteer from city faced any health related problem or reaction to the vaccine. Even in phase III, none of the 300 plus volunteers who have already got the dose have complained of any side-effect so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-phase-iii-trial-begins-in-nagpur/articleshow/79552705.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||12 test positive for Covid, 59 recover in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur:The district reported 12 fresh Covid-19 patients, including seven from Kolhapur city, on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 49,110. As many 59 patients were discharged on Thursday. With this, the total number of recovered patients rose to 47,116. A total of 1,687 people succumbed to Covid, including one death reported on Thursday.  Of the fresh cases, the rural parts of Kolhapur registered three cases, including one from Gaganbawda and two from Karveer tehsil. Two other patients are not from Kolhapur district.  A 60-year-old man from the city’s Mangalwar peth succumbed to Covid. Kolhapur city has reported 14,935 Covid cases and 362 deaths so far. Ichalkaranji town has registered 3,923 patients and 228 Covid deaths. No deaths in Sangli Sangli district added 34 Covid cases, including five from the jurisdiction of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation, on Thursday. No death was reported in the district.  The district had reported 46,912 cases so far, of them, 44,803 have recovered while 1,700 have died due to Covid. The area of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation has reported 16,334 cases and 546 deaths. While the Rural areas have recorded 23,643 cases and 883 deaths. The urban pockets, governed by the municipal councils, has registered 6935 and 271 deaths so far. 180 cases in Solapur  Solapur district, covering city and rural parts, reported 180 fresh cases since Wednesday late night while 173 patients were discharged after recovering. Three deaths were also recorded in the district. Of the fresh cases, the rural parts reported 149 cases. As many as 145 patients have recovered. Pandharpur and Karmala reported one death each. Both deceased were elderly men. The rural areas have recorded 35,889 patients so far, of them, 1047 have succumbed to Covid-19, 1,634 are currently undergoing treatment and 33,208 have recovered from the contagion. In Solapur city, 31 people tested for Covid while 28 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection. A 69-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19. The city has registered 564 deaths due to the infection, 422 active cases and 9487 patients have recovered so far. Satara adds 153 new cases  Satara district reported 153 fresh Covid-19 patients and one death due to the infection since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 51,522. The death toll has now risen to 1,725. An 85-year-old man from Patan tehsil succumbed to Covid As many as 48,870 have recovered from the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/12-test-positive-for-covid-59-recover-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/79551846.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||After above average rainfall in November, rain deficit in post-monsoon season drops to 77% in U’khand||Dehradun: The overall rain deficit in the post-monsoon season (October 1 to December 31) has come down to 77% from almost 100% following decent spells of rainfall in the month of November, the Met officials said on Thursday. According to the regional meteorological centre, Uttarakhand received 9.7 mm rainfall between October 1 and December 2 against the normal 42.9 mm showers expected during the period, recording the departure of 77%. Notably, the three-month long post-monsoon season in Uttarakhand, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), extends from October 1 to December 31. "The month of October more or less remained totally dry with almost all 13 districts receiving no rainfall. However, in the month of November, we witnessed about three spells of rain and snow that resulted in drop in the rain deficiency," said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. The rain data released by the Met office shows that Uttarakhand received excess showers in the month of November as 9.6 mm rainfall lashed the Himalayan state against the normal 7.2 mm rain, resulting in 33% surplus rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-above-average-rainfall-in-november-rain-deficit-in-post-monsoon-season-drops-to-77-in-ukhand/articleshow/79552707.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Turnout drops at testing centres due to dip in deaths, festive season||Nagpur: Covid testing in the city and rural parts has been falling for the last 10 days after touching a high of 9,116 on November 26. Health officials and testing centre doctors feel the dip in Covid mortality rate is a major reason behind people overcoming the fear seen in July to August period. So they are not rushing to get themselves tested. Covid deaths have ranged between 5 and 18 in this period.They also said that earlier strict measures like declaring containment zones had an impact and would compel people to get themselves tested even if they didn’t have any symptoms.Acting civil surgeon Dr Deepak Thete didn’t comment on the trend within city limits, but said people in rural parts are putting off visits to testing centre because of festive season. “They are also under the impression that centres are closed on holidays or weekends, which is not the case. We are trying to reach out to all high-risk close contacts of positive patients. Our teams are calling them and even visiting them to convince them to go for testing,” he said.Health officials feel Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) needs to take strict measures if it wants to ensure asymptomatic carriers do not go unchecked. “NMC is not serious enough. People will not come till it is made compulsory as seen in schoolteachers case, or when containment zones were declared and people were quarantined,” they said.An NMC testing centre official said presently only those with symptoms, ante-natal care (ANC) patients, and those needing surgeries are seen getting tested. “Civic body needs to learn from the US example, where suddenly 2,000 Covid deaths took place in a day. When someone tests positive, we can isolate them. But what can be done when they are not coming at all,” the official said.IGGMCH associate professor of microbiology Dr Ravindra Khadse said there was no shortage of kits and facilities. “Labs are working like before. An average 10% positivity rate is seen in city. Symptomatic cases may be few, and only they are advised to take a test. But numbers ultimately depend on public response,” he said.Talking about the consequences of dip in testing, GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said infection will spread if asymptomatic patients go unchecked. “Only 5% to 10% patients are now symptomatic while 90% are asymptomatic. Co-morbid patients will get serious if they are infected by asymptomatic carriers. Oxygen saturation level has to be maintained otherwise health deteriorates very fast,” he said.Top NMC officials didn’t respond to TOI’s calls and messages.A zone official said people are not interested in getting tested. “In some zones, medical teams are reaching out through camps and mobile vans. Some zones covered offices, schools, industrial area, and markets. Yet, positivity is less. Now, hardly one or two are found positive out of 100,” he said. The claims holds water as the district didn’t see a significant change in daily cases on November 26, when 9,116 tests were performed and on November 30, when 4,504 tests were done.Infodate-----------cases---------------deaths------------testsDec 3--------- 536---------------- 15 --------------- 6611Dec 2--------- 453---------------- 11 --------------- 5513Dec 1 ------- 515 --------------- 10---------------- 4972Nov 30 --------- 288 --------------- 9---------------- 4504Nov 29 --------- 499 --------------- 9---------------- 5161Nov 28 --------- 401 --------------- 9---------------- 5271Nov 27 --------- 457 --------------- 8---------------- 6938Nov 26 --------- 452 --------------- 8 ---------------- 9116Nov 25 --------- 319 --------------- 5 ---------------- 6333Nov 24 --------- 356 --------------- 11--------------- 7184||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/turnout-drops-at-testing-centres-due-to-dip-in-deaths-festive-season/articleshow/79552717.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Local body elections: High court defers govt’s interim relief plea||Vijayawada: The high court on Thursday deferred its decision on the interim relief sought by the state government to stay the proceedings initiated by the state election commission to conduct local body elections in February. The government had moved the HC challenging the SEC’s move on Nov 17 to conduct elections in February on the grounds that the state has not completely come out of the pandemic. Government pleader C Suman argued that the SEC initiated the proceedings without consulting the state government which is a violation of the Supreme Court’s direction, and also without considering expert advice on the pandemic situation. Suman told the court that the Covid-19 situation is still fragile in the state though the daily cases have come down. The entire state machinery is still involved in fighting the pandemic and conducting elections at this juncture will put public health at risk, he argued. N Ashwani Kumar, the standing counsel of the SEC, said the allegation of not consulting the state government is not true as the SEC consulted the government three times before initiating the election proceedings. He further said the question of staying the election process does not arise as the process was initiated according to the directions of the division bench of the high court. Even the Supreme Court has advised not to stay the election process, he argued, adding that any decision to stay the process would run contrary to the orders of the HC’s division bench. After hearing both sides, Justice D V S S Somayajulu asked the SEC to file a counter affidavit within a week. At this juncture, Suman requested the court to grant interim relief by way of directing status quo or staying further proceedings till the next hearing. Justice Somayajulu observed that an interim relief cannot be given without examining the division bench and apex court judgements. He directed to place all relevant judgements before him to decide the interim relief direction on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/local-body-elections-high-court-defers-govts-interim-relief-plea/articleshow/79552714.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Forest officials gear up to translocate tigers from Rajaji to Corbett||Dehradun: The officials of the Uttarakhand forest department swung into action on Thursday to get tigers from Corbett to Rajaji Tiger Reserve, an exercise in pipeline since the past four years. The western Rajaji is home to barely two tigresses, of which, one is currently missing, and five more will be added to the reserve — three females and two males. Notably, Corbett has an excess tiger population of at least 1% and the move will help its population to spread appropriately in their traditional habitats. Corbett is home to at least 232 tigers presently with the highest tiger density in the county. Corbett Tiger Reserve’s director Rahul (who goes by first name only) said, “The translocation may take place this weekend or next week. Our crew is all set to translocate the tigers, we have identified the tigers and we are in the final stage. All logistics, drugs and radio collar are in place, the tigers just need to be tranquilised and moved to Rajaji.” “The tigers identified are from age group 3 to 7 and are healthy. The tigers will first be radio-collared to ensure that they are safe. Collaring permission has been procured from the National Tiger Conservation Authority so that we can keep a close check on their movement. Forty vigilance teams in border villages close to Rajaji have been formulated in a move to prepare villagers,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, forest department. Rajaji Tiger Reserve is spread across an area of 557 sq km and holds a capacity to keep at least 83 tigers. Currently, there are 35 tigers in the eastern part of the reserve (spread across 380 sq km) while two tigers are in the western part which spans across 177 sq km. Meanwhile, the tiger estimation exercise in CTR will commence from December 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-officials-gear-up-to-translocate-tigers-from-rajaji-to-corbett/articleshow/79552727.cms||Shivani Azad
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Ex-CM Harish Rawat sits on a silent protest in Haridwar||Haridwar: The former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat had posted on the social media earlier that he will sit in a silent protest in Haridwar on Thursday to press for allocation of more funds for the Haridwar Maha Kumbh. Rawat had claimed that the Kumbh has been allocated lesser funds by the Centre as compared to the Kumbhs held at Prayagraj and Ujjain. The Congress leader also offered prayer at Har-Ki-Pauri with other Congress workers. However, most of the teerth purohit (priests) distanced themselves from the event as they were unhappy with the Harish Rawat government over the controversial Ganga river escape channel order. Rawat said that most of the projects have been cancelled due to the lack of budget and only beautification work is ongoing. “Neither the Centre nor the state government is serious about organising the Kumbh works, and most of the bathing festivals were suspended due to the pandemic. The quality of Kumbh works has been compromised, which is a matter of inquiry, but the government is not ready to listen to anything,” Rawat added. Earlier, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had hit out at the ex-CM’s silent protest and said, “He is just doing politics to establish his agenda and has no right to speak on Ganga and Kumbh festival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ex-cm-harish-rawat-sits-on-a-silent-protest-in-haridwar/articleshow/79552719.cms||MS Nawaz
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||2 from Pune killed in accident near Karad||Kolhapur: Two men died in an accident on Thursday after the car they were travelling in was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Karad on the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway. According to police, the accident took place near Jakhinwadi village. “The deceased have been identified as Shirhari Tukaram Waghmare (48), a resident of Bhekrainagar in Hadapsar (Pune), and Bapusaheb Khanderao Kamble (50), a resident of Kalewadi in Pimpri,” a police officer said. “Waghmare was going to Belagavi to meet a doctor and get some medicines. The accident took place when unidentified vehicle dashed the car from the opposite direction. Three other passengers in the car sustained minor injuries,” he added. Wahmare and Kamble were immediately taken to a hospital where they were declared dead on arrival. Those who sustained injuries in the accident have been identified as Ashwini Waghmare, Ragini Waghmare and driver of the car Fulchand Navnath Chatur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-from-pune-killed-in-accident-near-karad/articleshow/79551856.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||2 brothers from Kolhapur get life for killing their cousin||KOLHAPUR: District and sessions judge D K Gudadhe recently sentenced two brothers from Vashi village in Kolhapur district to life imprisonment for murdering their cousin. The convicts — Mahadeo Pujari and Ashok Pujari — were held guilty for murdering Appaji Pujari. According to police, the murder was due to a minor altercation between the deceased and the convicts at a religious public function. According to the prosecution, Appaji was prevented by Mahadeo and Ashok from washing utensils at a function which took place near Birdeo temple in Vashi. This led to all the trouble between them. When the altercation escalted, Mahadeo and Ashok picked a cement concrete structure and smashed it on Appaji’s head. This resulted into serious internal head injuries and eventually death. The incident took place on March 11, 2018. Pujari brothers were booked under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. As many as 11 witnesses appeared during the hearing and some of them were eye witnesses to the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-brothers-get-life-for-killing-their-cousin/articleshow/79551850.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s Covid tracking dashboard lying defunct||Nagpur: Launched with much fanfare by the then municipal commissioner Tukaram Munde, NMC’s 3D dashboard and services for Covid-19 is gathering dust now. The civic body’s health department hasn’t updated it since November 9.Inaugurated on June 17 by Munde, the dashboard contains zonewise information about Covid — cumulative cases, deaths, recoveries, daily detections, testing centres and Covid care centres. As per the last update, Mangalwari zone was leading the chart with 994 active cases.The idea behind running the portal was to give citizens authentic information about cases in their area, ward and zone.At the same time, the portal was expected to generate a heat map, highlight emerging hotspots and help in formulating strategies for containment zones. As per public health officials, the portal was conceptualized to enable accurate planning of Covid management in city, and at the same time keep citizens aware of the infection spread in their area.Top NMC officials couldn’t explain why the portal has been dumped despite it high utility value.An office bearer of NGO TogetherWeCan said, “It is absolutely wrong to stop updating the portal. The threat of Covid is not over yet. If a system has been developed then it should run properly. NMC should revive it.”NCP leader and former corporator Vedprakash Arya said proper management is missing in the civic body. “I feel it doesn’t want to keep citizens well-informed. It is a good portal and must be revived. How are people supposed to know what is going on in their area and other parts of the city? Already, there is so much misinformation. At the same time, I would say NMC hasn’t publicized it properly. I feel 95% of elected representatives too may be unaware of this portal. The corona control room too is out of order,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-covid-tracking-dashboard-lying-defunct/articleshow/79552723.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
December 4, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: BJP leader cuts cake, flouts Covid-19 rules too||VADODARA: Despite the Supreme Court and Gujarat high court coming down heavily on social gatherings, netas continue to violate Covid-19 rules with brazen audacity. The latest in the series of violations by politicians is the birthday bash organized by former Vadodara mayor Sunil Solanki. On Wednesday evening, Solanki had organized cake cutting with a large number of his supporters crowding the venue, the city BJP office. Supporters were jubilant after Solanki was appointed the city unit general secretary of the BJP. He was celebrating his 50th birthday. Solanki had decided to celebrate the day with a novel gesture with persons working at the Khaswadi crematorium in the city that is the largest and was the first crematorium for Covid-19 bodies. He along with family members distributed shawls and sarees to workers at the crematorium and their relatives. But things seemingly didn’t go the way the former mayor would have expected as a beeline of supporters and party workers started coming to greet him individually or in groups at the BJP office. Some even came with cakes. The video of Solanki with one such group went viral on Thursday. While many did not wear masks at all, others had their masks dangling on their chins. On his part, Solanki said that the gathering should not have taken place. “People came to meet me since there was no restriction on people meeting each other. But at that particular moment, some of them got together in a large number unexpectedly,” he said. Sayajigunj police inspector, S G Solanki said, "We have booked 10 persons in the case. Six have been arrested while four including former mayor Sunil Solanki is yet be nabbed. Solanki wasn't available at his home and we were told that he has gone somewhere. He will be arrested too." More names will be added in the list of accused based on the video. All have been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-leader-cuts-cake-flouts-covid-rules-too/articleshow/79554044.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Fearing childbirth, pregnant woman kills self in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: Fear of childbirth drove a pregnant woman to commit suicide by jumping into a well at Musunuru village in Krishna district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Janu Lakshmi Durga (24), a native of the same village. Cops explained that Durga got married in February this year and was around eight months pregnant. However, family members said she was paranoid about giving birth and was especially afraid to undergo surgery. She was taken to many hospitals for tokophobia (fear of childbirth), for treatment but as the time for delivery approached, family members said she was more depressed and anxious. A case was registered under CrPC section 174 (death due to drowning).— Ujwal Bommakanti||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fearing-childbirth-pregnant-woman-kills-self/articleshow/79552725.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Four held in US Nagar with over 9 kg Pangolin scales||Rudrapur: A joint team of Udham Singh Nagar police and the forest department on Thursday arrested four men in possession of over 9 kg Pangolin scales from the forest reserve near Hotel Churchwood at Pilibhit road in Khatima town of district. SHO of the Khatima police station, Naresh Chauhan, told TOI that constables Arvind Bahuguna, Tapendra Joshi, Mahendra Singh, Chander Singh and Nasir Hussain were on patrolling duty when they learnt from one of their sources that four men carrying gunny bags were trying to sell some animal’s scales. The police personnel informed their senior officials, who called the forest officials and led a joint operation. The joint team rushed to the spot and nabbed four of the accused who were identified as Harjinder Singh, resident of district Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, Ratan Singh of district Pilibhit (UP), Ratan Singh and Umesh Singh, both residents of district Udham Singh Nagar. Forest officers, Jagesh Verma and Bhairav Singh Bisht, who were part of the team, said, “We have recovered gunny bags which contained Pangolin scales weighing 9.262 kg from the possession of the accused. We are interrogating them to find out their source and if they poached the animal in Khatima forest reserve.” The police have booked the four accused under section 51 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972. If found guilty, they can be imprisoned for a maximum term of seven years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-held-in-us-nagar-with-over-9-kg-pangolin-scales/articleshow/79552743.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Patanjali at standstill, other Mihan plants resume work||NAGPUR: Work on Patanjali Ayurved’s ambitious food park at Mihan that had stopped before Covid outbreak, has not begun even as other units in the area have resumed activities. This has left Mihan developer Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) worried. It has sent reminders both at Patanjali’s headquarters at Haridwar and also the local office. There has been no reply yet. The company was supposed to get operational 18 months after getting allotment of land. The period excluded rainy season. The project is far behind schedule, said a source aware of the development. Lately, even the local in-charge has left. “Now the correspondence has to be done directly with the headquarters. There are no workers at the site and only guards are deployed,” a source said. Most of the work is completed and the machinery brought in needs to be installed. There were indications that the company was arranging funds for the project but there has been no official word so far, said sources. Acharya Balakrishna, managing director of Patanjali Ayurved, said the work was hampered due to Covid but will begin soon. “We will be resuming work before 2020 ends. The unit will be operational at the earliest. We are indeed concerned about the farmers and hope to address their issues once the unit is operational,” he said. Balkrishna said the funds have been tied up with a consortium of banks and only a small amount is needed through debt. Already over Rs700 crore have been invested in the plant, he claimed. The company had announced it would buy oranges grown in the region once its processing plant was ready. Manoj Jawanjal, a director of Mahaorange, an association of orange growers, had stated timely implementation of Patanjali’s plant in Mihan or Coca-Cola’s processing unit at Morshi would have saved farmers from the present crisis. Low demand has reduced the orange rates to Rs10 to 12 a kg. “Jain Farm Fresh and Coca Cola have taken 100 acres land at Thana Thoni village in Morshi Taluka of Amravati district for setting up a processing plant. The work on those has not even started yet,” he said. Had the plants been there, a chunk of the orange output could have been easily procured by the units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patanjali-at-standstill-other-mihan-plants-resume-work/articleshow/79553978.cms||Shishir Arya
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||No physical classes, no boards: Principals to edu min||Nagpur: An association representing principals of grant-in-aid schools from Nagpur has written to education minister Varsha Gaikwad, demanding minimum three months of physical classes before holding board exams. School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) had taken up this issue in their emergency meet held on November 22, and on Wednesday it wrote to the government with the demand.SHCA president Zafar Khan said, “The online classes propaganda is only for a small number of elite students. Our students come from Marathi, Urdu and Hindi schools and their financial background is not very strong. There is no way these kids can appear for SSC or HSC exam if they don’t attend physical classes.”The SHCA wrote to Gaikwad saying as per the curriculum given, classes need to be held for at least three months. Khan said, “We are not saying this duration of physical classes without any thought. Our member schools went through the curriculum in detail and worked on a lesson plan. Taking all these things into account, we arrived at the three-month duration. Anything less will be injustice to our students.”The association also feels that curriculum has to be slashed further. “At least 50% curriculum needs to be slashed, else it will be of no use,” said Khan.The SHCA has also decided to raise the decibel for their demand by approaching public representatives. Khan said, “We will be meeting with MLAs, MPs and ministers to press for this demand. After all, it is the future of our children which is at stake. Bad planning by education officials has led to this entire mess.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-physical-classes-no-boards-principals-to-edu-min/articleshow/79552731.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Grad polls: Wanjari leads by over 9,000 votes after third round||Nagpur: Abhijit Wanjari of Congress was leading by over 9,000 votes after three rounds over Sandip Joshi of BJP in the Nagpur division graduate’s constituency . Two more rounds remained at the filing of the report. Result was expected to be declared late in night. BJP refused to concede after three rounds. “Let all the rounds be completed. We will make the difference in one round and then we will establish a lead,” said former BJP MLC Anil Sole. Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said that Wanjari’s lead would go on increasing. “BJP is losing everywhere in the state. It is a failure of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis,” he added. In the first round, Wanjari polled 12,617 votes against 7,767 polled by Joshi thus establishing a lead of 4,850 votes. In the second round the Congress leader polled 11,497 votes against 9,085 garnered by Joshi thus increasing his lead to 7,262 votes. At the end of third round, Wanjari had polled total 35,509 votes against 25,898 polled by Joshi. The fight seems to be a straight one with Independent candidate Atul Khobragade a poor third with 5,757 votes. Nitesh Karale was fourth with 4,314 votes. Congress sources said that OBCs, Muslims and Dalits had mostly voted for Wanjari due to which he was comfortably ahead. “Every time the polling percentage in Nagpur division graduate constituency election was poor because our voters did not take the election seriously. This time they did and the polling percentage was over a record 64%. In 2014, when Sole had defeated Baban Taywade of Congress, the voting percentage was only 37%,” said a Congress leader. Earlier Jansangh and its offshoot BJP have been winning this seat for the last 58 years consistently. Gangadharrao, father of Devendra Fadnavis, had won from this constituency many times. After his death, Union minister Nitin Gadkari won from this seat five times. After Gadkari switched over to Lok Sabha, Sole won from this seat. If Joshi loses it will be a big setback to both Fadnavis and Gadkari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grad-polls-wanjari-leads-by-over-9000-votes-after-third-round/articleshow/79568395.cms||Ashish Roy
December 4, 2020||Patna||Bihar NDA allies thrash out ‘common minimum programme’||PATNA: The ruling NDA is working on a “common blueprint” for the implementation of the poll promises made by its four constituents — BJP, JD(U), VIP and HAM (Secular) — for the next five years. All four NDA constituents had come up with their separate manifesto for the recently concluded assembly polls in Bihar. The constituents claim that work has begun on compiling an overall programme comprising important elements from all four manifestos, which will be implemented by the government led by JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar. However, it is not the first time the NDA government in the state is taking up such an exercise. A "common minimum programme" based governance was first introduced by the Nitish-led NDA government in 2005 under which it announced to set up an administrative reforms commission for ensuring a clean and transparent administration. “All four allies made certain announcements during the assembly election and we aspire to prepare a roadmap for the implementation of the most important welfare-oriented programmes of every ally. Talks are going on, and the blueprint will be out in the public domain as soon as it gets finalised,” BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told TOI on Thursday. The main component of the 1-point election manifesto of BJP included the creation of job opportunities for 19 lakh people in the state and free vaccine for Covid-19 virus among others. JD (U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh also confirmed that plans are afoot for bringing out a blueprint for the implementation of the salient poll promises of all four NDA allies. “While JD (U) is committed to working on the Saat Nischay 2.0 programme, work is going on for implementation of the welfare-based poll promises of other allies as well,” Bashishtha told TOI. The Saat Nischay 2.0 or the second edition of Nitish’s seven resolves envisage seven points, namely ‘Yuva Shakti- Bihar Ki Pragati’, ‘Sashakt Mahila- Saksham Mahila’, ‘Har Khet Tak Sichai Ka Pani’, Swachch Gaon- Samriddh Gaon’, ‘Swachch Shehar- Vikasit Shehar’, ‘Sulabh Samparkta’ and ‘Sabke Liye Atirikt Swastha Suvidha’. Another senior functionary of JD (U) said on condition of anonymity that a couple of meetings have already taken place among NDA partners for arriving at a framework for implementation of the poll promises. “While the blueprint will largely comprise the poll promises of JD (U) and BJP, some points from HAM(S) and VIP manifestos may also be included. Poll promises that are most feasible and welfare driven are under evaluation,” he said. HAM (S)’s spokesperson Danish Rizwan also said work has started on the blueprint for NDA. “The manifesto of each party is being reviewed and the best component from each party’s poll promises will be incorporated in the final blueprint to be rolled out by the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-nda-allies-thrash-out-common-minimum-programme/articleshow/79552996.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Water meant for irrigation ‘diverted’ to CM’s pet project Suryadhar Lake; farmers protest||Haridwar: Barely a few days after chief minister Trivdendra Singh Rawat inaugurated the Suryadhar Lake project in his constituency Doiwala, local farmers on Wednesday began to protest at the site claiming that the water meant for irrigation purpose was diverted to fill up the lake, which is CM’s flagship project. The protesting farmers alleged that instead of supplying more water to them for their winter crops, the administration is busy in ensuring that the man-made lake is flush with water. Last week, the CM had announced that the lake will be developed as a tourist spot where adventure sports activities will also be conducted. Anoop Chauhan, block president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Tikait), told TOI, “The flow of the river had been restrained to fill up the lake. This affected 11 gram sabhas of Ranipokhari area of Dehradun. Most of the villagers are farmers and this time is very crucial for irrigation. And yet, the irrigation department stored the stream water in the lake. Hence, the farmers protested.” Following the protest, water for irrigation was released by the irrigation department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-meant-for-irrigation-diverted-to-cms-pet-project-suryadhar-lake-farmers-protest/articleshow/79552753.cms||MS Nawaz
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Properties of scamsters to be auctioned: Cops||NAGPUR: Properties of fraudsters, who duped several investors to the tune of over Rs100 crore in multi-level marketing Metrovision and crypto-currency scam, are likely to be auctioned to refund the money to the depositors. Zonal DCP Noorul Hasan has prepared a proposal to that effect and the same will be put up before the collector soon. The police have already recovered properties, including substantial cash, worth around Rs2.25 crore after arresting 12 persons. On Thursday, masterminds of the scam — Vijay Gurnule, Devendra Gajbhiye and Tanmay Jadhav — were sent to jail by a magistrate’s court. Two more accused — Sunil alias Sonu Shrikhande and his friend Shweta Dongre — are still in police custody remand. They would be produced before the court on December 7. Hasan told TOI that the process to auction the properties of the culprits under Section 3 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act, 1999, would be initiated to ensure maximum depositors get their money back. “We are now compiling list of movable and immovable assets, bank account details and other properties of the scamsters. Similarly, we are also preparing a list of the scam victims. After the exercise is completed, the police will try to make up for the losses of the investors by auctioning the properties,” said the DCP. “Though some of depositors have got their due returns, but most of them have suffered losses after falling prey to the scamsters,” he said. According to a senior official, police teams have gone to different locations across Vidarbha for recovering more properties, which the fraudsters amassed through the investors’ money. “During custodial interrogation, the accused have confessed to have bought more properties and the documents concealed at different places. Seizure of such properties will help us add to our already substantial recoveries,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/properties-of-scamsters-to-be-auctioned-cops/articleshow/79552738.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||In social security boost, govt to hike pensions from July ’21||VIJAYAWADA: The state government will increase old age and widow pension from Rs 2,250 to Rs 2,500 and implement it from July 2021, said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday. Participating in a short discussion in the assembly on the fourth day of the winter session, the chief minister said the YSR Congress had promised to increase old age and widow pensions to Rs 3,000 per month over a period of four years. Accordingly, the party has increased the pension to Rs 2,250 in its first year, he said. The chief minister said that the pension would be revised on the birth anniversary of his father and late chief minister Y S Rajasekhar Reddy on July 8, 2021 and the revised pension would be paid on August 1, 2021. He also said that his government is going by the promises made in the election manifesto of the party and there have been no deviations from it. He dared the opposition TDP members to prove his failures or deviations from the manifesto. The chief minister said that the government had paid Rs 4,604 crore to 24,55,534 women across the state belonging to the SC, ST, BC and minority communities. He said that the TDP government had paid pensions to 44,32,592 persons by paying less than Rs 500 crore per month. However, this government is giving pensions to 61.94 lakh beneficiaries by paying Rs 1,500 crore, the chief minister said. With the House not in order and TDP members holding a protest alleging that the government had betrayed women on the pension schemes, speaker Thammineni Sitaram suspended the opposition MLAs from the House for the day. Though opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu was not suspended, he walked out of the House in protest. Earlier, ministers Amzad Basha, Taneti Vanitha, Pinepe Viswaroop, Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna, Buggana Rajendranath and Botcha Satyanarayana spoke, explaining in detail the number of welfare schemes initiated by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the last 18 months. They claimed that people of all sections were happy with the cash benefits directly reaching their bank accounts, unlike in the past. They also said direct benefit transfer to the beneficiaries had empowered people of all sections, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic. Some of the legislators who spoke during the discussion thanked the chief minister for increasing infrastructure in government schools, hospitals, giving new uniforms and paying money to students, giving reservations for women, Backward Classes and other initiatives of the government that have helped people get due representation in governance. The legislators and the ministers also thanked the chief minister for empowering women and weaker sections by giving them due representation, starting from the cabinet to the market committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-social-security-boost-govt-to-hike-pensions-from-july-21/articleshow/79552742.cms||Gopi Dara
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||State human rights’ commission office shut after two employees found Covid-19 positive; 12 deaths and 491 infections surface||Dehradun: With the state recording 491 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand breached the 76,000-mark. The Covid-19 tally, till Thursday, stood at 76,275 in the state. Also, 12 more fatalities pushed the Covid-19 toll to 1,263 in Uttarakhand on Thursday. Among those found infected on the day included two employees of the state human rights commision (SHRC). After their Covid-19 test report came out positive, the office was shut as a precautionary measure and will now be opened on Monday after sanitisation. The news was confirmed by Harish Chandra Pandey, an SHRC official who said, "The next dates of hearing will be shared with the public soon." On Thursday, Dehradun reported the maximum of 179 Covid-19 infections, followed by Nainital (76), Haridwar (52), Chamoli (42), Almora (25), Pauri (24), Tehri (23), Bageshwar (18), US Nagar (16), Uttarkashi (13), Champawat (9) Rudraprayag (8), and Pithoragarh (6). So far, Dehradun has recorded the most number of coronavirus-related deaths with 703 fatalities, followed by Nainital (172), Haridwar (136), Udham Singh Nagar (103) and Pauri (46). Among the 12 Covid-19 patients who died on the day, six were men and as many were women. The oldest Covid-19 positive person who died on the day was 75 years old and the youngest was a 45-year-old woman. The former breathed his last in AIIMS Rishikesh and the latter in Dehradun-based Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital. Meanwhile, 433 patients recovered from the virus in the state on Thursday, taking the total number of cured cases to 69,271. There were 4,967 active cases in the state till Thursday and the recovery percentage stood at 90.82%. The results of 15,732 Covid-19 test samples were still awaited. Notably, the state continues to have containment zones in Dehradun – Kargi Chowk, Loharathanpur, Chukkuwala, Hathibarkala, Indra Nagar — and in Mussoorie — LBSNAA and Kempty Road. In Pauri Garhwal, the containment zone is in Srinagar’s Hotel Daisy and in Tehri, Kilkileshwar and Kirtinagar remains sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-human-rights-commission-office-shut-after-two-employees-found-covid-19-positive-12-deaths-and-491-infections-surface/articleshow/79552794.cms||Shivani Azad
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Son arrested 19 months after beating mom to death as post mortem reveals murder||Nagpur: A 53-year-old woman’s death was considered a natural demise by the police in April last year. Following forensic analysis, it turned out to be a murder, which led to the arrest of her son Tejlal Bilone, 43, one year and seven months later.Tejpal, who earned a livelihood as a labourer, allegedly thrashed mother Sushila to death in the early hours of April 28 last year at their residence at Ramteke Lane, Sujata Nagar, Ajni. Tejpal had a heated argument with his family, including mother, for not paying electric bill, following which the power supply had been discontinued.On the evening of the day before she was beaten to death, Tejpal was cornered by his family as the ground floor of their residence had been plunged into darkness due to snapped power supply. This had left Tejpal enraged.Tejpal is learnt to have assaulted his mother when she came to sleep on the ground floor, leading to her death. Ajni police had initially registered it as a case of accidental death after sending her body for post mortem at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH).The post mortem and chemical analysis report conclusively stated that Sushila had suffered assault, which led to her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/son-arrested-19-months-after-beating-mom-to-death-as-post-mortem-reveals-murder/articleshow/79552759.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Covid sewa for no mask: SC stays Gujarat HC order||NEW DELHI: Gujarat HC’s unconventional order to send people not wearing masks in public places to provide community service at Covid centres remained in force for less than 24 hours, with the Supreme Court staying it on Thursday in light of the state government’s fear that the unusual penalty could cause the disease to spread further and result in numerous legal complications. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah stayed the HC’s order. The violators would face difficulty in providing community service at Covid centres as they were not trained to work in high-risk medical facilities, the state said. Appearing for the Gujarat government, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said it would be unfair on the part of the Union government to find fault with Gujarat alone as not wearing masks in public places was a genuine issue in most states. “We have a culture of not obeying rules and regulations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-sewa-for-no-mask-sc-stays-gujarat-hc-order/articleshow/79556611.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka agriculture minister: Farmers who commit suicide are cowards||BENGALURU: State agriculture minister BC Patil on Thursday stoked controversy, saying the “farmers who commit suicide are cowards”, which drew sharp reactions from the Congress, JD(S) and farmers’ groups. Addressing bamboo growers at Ponnampet in Kodagu district, about 250km from Bengaluru, he said: “Only a coward who can’t take care of his wife and children commits suicide. When we have fallen (into water), we must swim against all odds and emerge victorious.” The minister said, “Some cowards do not realize how profitable the agriculture business is and they commit suicide.” To drive home his point, he cited the example of a woman he had met. “When I enquired with her how did she manage to buy gold bangles that adorned her hands, she said, ‘This mother earth has given me (those) for 35 years of toil’,” he said. Farmers’ forums seek min’s apologyWhen a woman who achieved big depending solely on agriculture, why cannot other farmers pull it off,” minister BC Patil said. Patil’s daughter and actor Srusti Patil took to Twitter in his defence. “Every person in this world has only one life and it is not right to take one’s life by suicide. Be it a farmer or anyone else. If the person commits suicide, who will fend for his wife and children? What will be the fate of his relatives?” she said. Farmers’ organisations and the Congress demanded public apology from the minister. “The statement is absolutely irresponsible. Being agriculture minister, it is insensitive on his part to speak of our hard-working farmers in such language. Instead, he should motivate them,” said Siddaramaiah, opposition leader in the legislative assembly. HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S), too, said in a tweet: “Farmers do not end life because they are cowards…. Because they have self-esteem and never seek alms. Because they can’t repay the moneylenders and because they feel guilty to face their children, spouse, and relatives.” “It’s been nearly 10 months since Patil became agriculture minister. He has not done anything good so far. The farmers are going through one of the worst phases: Floods, heavy rain, shortage of fertilizers and fake seeds. And the minister has remained a mute spectator,” said farmer leaders Kurubur Shanthakumar and Kodihalli Chandrashekar. “No farmer wants to end life. Many reasons -- floods and droughts -- have not been understood and resolved. Instead of understanding the gravity of the problem, the minister makes irresponsible statements,” said Congress spokesperson VS Ugrappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/agri-min-ryots-taking-own-lives-are-cowards/articleshow/79556619.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Attendance in schools up by 65% since reopening||NAGPUR: Attendance in schools across Maharashtra has increased by a whopping 65% since reopening on November 23. As per data provided by the state education department, on Wednesday almost 5 lakh students attended school in districts where permission has been granted to reopen schools. This figure is likely to go higher as statistics from a few districts had not been updated in the state level database. Education officials had always maintained that attendance will rise steadily as parents gain confidence. Amravati witnessed sharpest rise of over 800% in attendance. Tejrao Kale, who is holding temporary charge as deputy director of education (Amravati division) said, “The rise is because of us coordinating with teachers and principals associations. They in turn were in touch with parents. Attendance was low to begin with because everybody was apprehensive. Now slowly things are getting back to normal.” Wardha district witnessed an increase in attendance by almost 500%. Collector Vivek Bhimanwar said the current situation is a result of a series of interactions with stakeholders. “We first did an online survey on reopening to which more than 24,000 parents and teachers responded. Total 82% of these wanted schools to reopen which led us to the second step,” said Bhimanwar. He then held meetings with associations representing teachers and parents. “People will work with government always when taken into confidence. We took suggestions from teachers, parents and resolved their concerns. In Wardha we have adapted a hybrid model of teaching, where physical classes are only for math and science. For other subjects it’s online and/or just once a week in physical mode,” said Bhimanwar. Gadchiroli is another ‘star performer’ with 98.3% of its schools now reopened, highest in the state. Apart from this, Gadchiroli also witnessed a 140% rise in students attendance compared from November 23 to December 3. Education officials in the district said physical reopening is the only way kids there can learn. Dharmanand Meshram, block education officer in Bhamragarh, said, “There is no scope for online education as our children do not have access to that infrastructure. Without physical classrooms teaching, education cannot move ahead.” Chandrapur was the only district which saw a dip in attendance figures on December 2. However, on December 3, the attendance rose sharply to over 11,500. Education officer Ulhas Narad said, “The initial drop in numbers was because of a few school closures and also due to some students not coming back after attending on Day One. But on Thursday, we again had a solid bounce back as parents are gaining confidence in the way things are working. Now this rise in attendance will be a normal thing as we expect figures to go up steadily.” Solapur district alone accounts for 26% of the total attendance statistics in Maharashtra. With a massive 1.3 lakh students attending school on Wednesday, Solapur maintained its lead over every district by a wide margin. It’s lead can be guaged by the fact that Satara comes in at second spot with just over 33,000 students attending. High enrolment cities like Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur have not yet reopened schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/attendance-in-schools-up-by-65-since-reopening/articleshow/79552777.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Left parties agitate against reforms in property tax||VIJAYAWADA: Left parties are planning to intensify their agitation opposing the capital value (CV) system of property tax introduced by the state government. Taxpayers’ associations allege that the new system will add a burden on consumers whenever the government revises the property value. The government introduced GO 198 replacing annual rental value basis in property tax collection and introduced the CV system based on market value of a property. “The government is trying to add tax burden on the public with tax reforms. Property tax in many areas will change with the CV system. Government increases market value of lands every year and as a result property taxes will increase every year,” said CPI city secretary Donepudi Shankar. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/left-parties-agitate-against-reforms-in-property-tax/articleshow/79552780.cms||Venu Lanka
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Man repeatedly posts revenge porn; cops unable to trace, stop him||Nagpur: An unidentified miscreant has left city police embarrassed by repeatedly posting semi-naked video clip of a 40-year-old woman from Ganga Jamuna on social media. The cops have been unable to trace the miscreant even though the FIR was lodged in the case in October. Emboldened by the city polices’ failure to nab him even a month since the FIR was lodged, the unidentified crook has taken to relentlessly harassing the woman by posting her obscene video clip on social media channels. Even as cyber cell had managed to get two of the woman’s video clips deleted, the person uploaded more content, challenging the police machinery. The miscreant has managed to upload the same clip a number of times by changing his login profiles. Zonal DCP Lohit Matani, who met the complainant at Lakadganj police station on Thursday, said he would take up the case with the cyber cell to ensure more concrete and accelerated action. “We will try to zero down upon the accused with the help of the cyber cell,” said Matani. As per the complainant, the accused had filmed the woman inside her room once, but had been using the same clip in various formats. He uploads them on a social media channel named after the red-light locality ‘Ganga Jamuna’. The complainant, who is bringing up her children elsewhere, is reeling under fear that the videos may jeopardize the academic career of her son, who is in Std X. She feels someone may have taken revenge on her for being upright and not succumbing to pressure of extortion or threats in the red-light area, where goons target women for money. Even as the cyber cell is trying to delete or block the channel itself, there is learnt to be no positive response yet from the social media platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-repeatedly-posts-revenge-porn-cops-unable-to-trace-stop-him/articleshow/79554026.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 4, 2020||Pune||Vetal Tekdi activities need approval: Heritage experts||PUNE: Heritage experts on Thursday said the Vetal hill is on the draft list of natural heritage sites identified in a state government notification on September 27, 2000. It means any permission for any development at such sites must be granted only after consulting the heritage conservation committee of Pune Municipal Corporation. This rule is applicable as per a letter dated April 25, 2002, by the then municipal commissioner. The revelation is significant after the Maharashtra Institute of Technology’s (MIT) recent attempt to build a 20ft wide road on the tekdi’s spur in Paud Road area. The activity was stopped after the PMC sent the college a stop-work notice on November 19. The 2002 letter had said, “...till such time that the government finalises the heritage list, the draft heritage list and the draft heritage regulations for Pune should be followed and development permissions to sites on the draft heritage list should be given only after consulting the heritage conservation committee.” A senior PMC official told TOI on Thursday that the new draft heritage list updated a couple of years ago has been sent to the government for sanction. “It is pending approval. Also, the new draft list of natural heritage sites is pending with the heritage committee. In the absence of sanction for the latest draft lists of sites, the old draft heritage site list from the year 2000 needs to be followed. This means that the 2002 letter by the then municipal commissioner has to be implemented. Any development work in heritage sites needs permission after consulting the heritage conservation committee,” the PMC official added. MIT authorities had on Wednesday justified the road building activity it had undertaken saying that it was carried out on land which belonged to the college. Mangesh Karad, executive director and secretary of MAEERS MIT Group Pune, had also said that the hill where the work was being carried out was not “Vetal Tekdi” but “MIT Tekdi”. Heritage experts from the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said the Vetal Tekdi complex is a “continuum of the same hill”, stretching across various parts of the city. Sharvey Dhongde, co-convener of INTACH, told TOI, “A tekdi is a complete entity. People can make divisions of it in terms of location and ownership, but the tekdi remains a continuum. It is one hill, that is continuous and is present on the Pashan side, Law College side, Paud road side, among other locations. Irrespective of the label, its various parts are natural elements of an entity that needs to be protected.” Sushma Date, a tekdi walker and member of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti said, “Thousands of Punekars visit Vetal Tekdi for physical exercise. Community activities like tree plantation drives, garbage clean-up drives and ecological study tours are conducted on these hills. Innumerable studies have stated the benefits of urban green space in fostering physical and psychological well-being of citizens. Hence it is vital to protect such community reserves as natural heritage sites for future generations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vetal-tekdi-activities-need-approval-heritage-experts/articleshow/79554102.cms||Neha Madaan
December 4, 2020||Chennai||Mind your language, I swear||In Tamil culture as with the rest of India, mother always comes first. Sadly, this holds true for expletives as well. During lockdown, two women set about compiling a list of cuss words from across India that do not have a gender bias — the Gaali Project, they call it. "Even when men argue, it is women who are targeted in the abusive words used," says Tamanna Mishra, a communications specialist, spearheading the project along with friend Neha Thakur. The swear words they are crowdsourcing from different Indian languages try to maintain decorum in terms of gender, religion and caste. So, instead of Ma******* they suggest the similar sounding, ‘batakh poth’, a word used in Kashmir meaning a duck’s backside. Read the entire story on TOI+Why are most curse words targeted at women?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mind-your-language-i-swear/articleshow/79556322.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Mid-air dining at 165-ft on the cards for Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: To attract more tourists to the city, the Chandigarh administration is planning sky dining. If everything goes according to the plan, the city residents and tourists will get a chance to have food of their choice at a height of 165-ft, mid-air. UT adviser Manoj Parida said that they have received a proposal from a company, which is already running similar facilities in other parts of the country, like Bengaluru. On the basis of their proposal, the administration will invite proposals from other companies too and will accordingly finalise one firm. The UT is planning the facility either in Leisure Valley, Sector 10, or Sukhna Lake, or Kaimbawala, or new lake in Sector 42.  As per the proposal, the restaurant will be at a height of 165 feet, hanging from a crane. It will have capacity for 24 persons at a time. If the UT gives permission, then the company can also consider serving beer and wine there. Daman Kapoor, MD of the private firm, said the company proposed to bring the novel concept to Chandigarh. The structure would be secured by aircraft-standard safety belts and have comfortable seats that could rotate a complete 180°. It would take around one-and-a-half minutes for the visitors to reach the peak height of 165m, and the same time would be taken to come down at the ground level.  He added, “One batch will stay for 40 minutes. The visitors will have to book seats online on a given website and mobile app. The ticket pricing is yet to be finalized, but it is likely to range from Rs 2,500 to Rs 4,000. Full arrangements will be made for people’s safety and security. If the approval is given, we will start the restaurant by Lohri 2021.” A similar project was started in Kalagram in 2009-10, but it was for a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mid-air-dining-at-165ft-on-the-cards-for-city/articleshow/79554087.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||IMA up in arms against allowing surgery by Ayurveda docs||Nagpur: The age-old clash between doctors trained in modern medicine and those who learnt traditional streams like Ayurveda just got renewed after the gazette notification published by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) on November 20.CCIM notified that 58 surgical procedures covering general surgery, urology, surgical gastroenterology, ENT, ophthalmology and dental medicine can be performed by the Ayurveda post-graduates in ‘Shalyathanthra’ and ‘Shalakyathanthra’ subjects too.Indian Medical Association (IMA), the apex body of doctors of modern medicine, is now up in arms against the CCIM and wants this notification withdrawn. “Untrained persons practising sophisticated surgical procedures that require years of training in modern medicine are a grave threat to public health,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA Maharashtra.“This move is promoting mixopathy and we oppose this. In fact, all four committees of National Medical Commission planning to promote mixopathy should be dissolved immediately,” he added. Not only the practising doctors of modern medicine, but resident doctors and budding doctors (MBBS students) will also oppose this move. IMA has planned systematic protest from December 4. It will start with MBBS students and by December 11, the practising doctors will observe a day’s strike.All non-essential non-Covid services will be withdrawn between 6am and 6pm on December 11. Finally doctors will file petitions in courts. IMA Maharashtra members appear more aggressive on the issue as the CCIM Chairman Dr Jayant Deopujari hails from Nagpur. Recently, he said in an interview with TOI that 95% of ICUs in India are managed by AYUSH Doctors. According to IMA, this statement is ‘provocative’. “It’s totally baseless and not factual statement,” reads IMA’s counter-statement issued on December 2. “They (CCIM) should explain with proof that each of procedures mentioned in CCIM notification are described in the ancient Ayurvedic surgery and are equivalent to the modern medical surgical nomenclature,” the statement concludes. What IMA will do?Medical Students: Will demonstrate peacefully in first week of DecemberJunior doctors: IMA’s wing of PG Students and MARD will begin agitation from December 8IMA members: Group of 20 doctors, using face masks, white coats and stethoscope around their neck will protest at a public place in every city from December 8 onwardsSenior doctors: Closure of medical services throughout Maharashtra and pan-India on December 11 Legal wing: IMA National will file a petition in the Supreme Court, IMA State branches in their respective high courts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-up-in-arms-against-allowing-surgery-by-ayurveda-docs/articleshow/79552837.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Woman killed over property feud, 10 held||VIJAYAWADA: Police arrested 10 persons for allegedly conspiring and murdering a Dalit woman over a property dispute under Nallapadu police station limits in Guntur town on Thursday. Two others are on the run. Explaining the history of the case, DSP Y Jessie Prashanti said the incident happened on Nov 30 when Kancherla Ramakrishna, alias Chanti, and E Harinath barged into the house of the deceased, E Ranisri, and stabbed her to death. The DSP said the victim was in a live-in relationship with E Chennaiah, a financier, after her husband died 15 years ago. In 2018, Ranisri gave birth to a son which resulted in property dispute between Chennaiah’s siblings, as he had already transferred some properties in Ranisri’s name. In a twist, Chennaiah passed away on Sep 31. His relatives filed a complaint against Ranisri, accusing her of murder. However, post-mortem report and doctors treating him prior to his death certified that he had died of Covid-19. After the case fell flat, Chennaiah’s siblings and other relatives barged into her place and took away her jewellery, cash and property documents before driving her out of her house. Ranisri approached the same police station and lodged a complaint, following which cops registered a case under SC/ST Atrocities Act along with other IPC sections for theft and assault. Infuriated by Ranisri’s complaint, Harinath, brother of Chennaiah, and another relative killed Ranisri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-killed-over-property-feud-10-held/articleshow/79552817.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Contractor, 4 of Pkl forest dept booked||PANCHKULA: The police on Thursday booked a private contractor and four officers of the Panchkula forest department for committing a fraud of Rs 26.14 lakh in the construction of Kaziana Dam in the forest area of Pinjore. The project budget of Rs 92 lakh was passed by the department. Inspector general, CM flying squad, Ashok Kumar said, “A budget of Rs 92 lakh was granted to Shivalik Vikas Agency for the dam construction. Work for cement plaster was given to a local contractor, Sukhwinder Singh, for Rs 16.99 lakh. A committee comprising additional board officer Sunil Kundu, forest inspector Angrej Singh, forest guards Ravinder Singh and Anil Kumar was formed to supervise the quality of material used in the construction work.” The team during their investigation found that Gurdarshan Singh, contractor of the project and key accused, in connivance with the officers, never supplied the material for the construction of the dam and prepared fake bills of Rs 26.14 lakh and got them signed. The accused contractor arranged all construction material, like crushed stones, through illegal mining in collusion with the officers. The team also found that instead of 202-quintal iron bars estimated for the project, the accused used only 60-quintal for its construction and produced bill of 202-quintal iron bars, clearly compromising on the construction quality. The accused also produced bills of 6,475 cement bags and used only 3,178 for the construction. The accused must have sold the cement bags to gain illegal monetary benefits, said the report prepared by the CID department. A detailed report was sent to the cops, who have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/contractor-4-of-pkl-forest-dept-booked/articleshow/79554070.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambala MC: Political activity heats up after poll announcement||AMBALA: Political activity intensified in the city after the Haryana state election commission announced December 27 as the date for Ambala municipal corporation elections. The contest in Ambala city will be a triangular one with the BJP, the Congress and the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) of Nirmal Singh in the race. The seat of mayor has been reserved for a woman candidate. While the BJP and the Congress are yet to announce their mayoral candidates, HDF has named Amisha Chawla, wife of former city councillor Dalip Chawla, as its pick. On November 5 last, the Election Commission of India (ECI) had registered HDF as a political party. BJP’s Ambala city MC election in-charge Subhash Barala, who took a meeting of party workers here on Wednesday, has asked them to make voters aware of the policies and development work done by the BJP government. On the other side, the Congress and the HDF workers have started targeting the BJP on several civic issues, including sanitation, stray cattle, improper disposal of garbage and heavy mutation fees, among others. Amisha Chawla said, “We welcome the election commission’s decision to announce the date for MC elections, as these were awaited for about three years. In the absence of a proper house, residents had faced many problems. We are in the field and our candidates have also been finalised. We will solve all the problems that people had been facing during the ruling government’s tenure, be it sanitation, streetlights or stray cattle.” Ambala-based Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) treasurer Rohit Jain said, “We have invited applications from probable candidates for the seats of mayor and councillors. These elections will be fought on the local issues, on which the incumbents have performed miserably. There has been no development in Ambala city and the BJP government has failed on all the fronts. Our agenda will be to highlight city’s cleanliness issues, stray cattle menace, door-to-door garbage collection fees, hefty mutation charges and improper disposal of garbage.” BJP state spokesman Sanjay Sharma said, “We will highlight development done by our government in the past six years, including beautification of the city, online services, infrastructure for better cleanliness, new bus stand and clearing legal hurdles of the garbage processing plant at Patvi that was abandoned by the Congress government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambala-mc-political-activity-heats-up-after-poll-announcement/articleshow/79554066.cms||JK Singh
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||3-day-long U’khand assembly session to start from Dec 21||Dehradun: The three-day winter session of Uttarakhand assembly is scheduled to be held in Dehradun from December 21. Keeping in mind the number of Covid-19 cases, the assembly staff would ensure proper compliance of social distancing norms. The state government may table a supplementary budget in the winter session, however, the news is yet to be confirmed. Speaker Assembly Prem Chand Aggarwal said, “We will follow the same procedures which were followed during the one-day assembly session in September this year.” He also pointed out that social distancing would be maintained and besides the lawmakers, only selected persons would be allowed inside the assembly premises. Notably, this would be the third assembly session of this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-day-long-ukhand-assembly-session-to-start-from-dec-21/articleshow/79552830.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Leopard kills woman in North Bramhapuri range||Chandrapur: In yet another incident of man-animal conflict, a woman from Dorli (Chichgaon) village was killed in leopard attack in North Bramhapuri forest range during early hours of Thursday. Forest department officials claimed the victim Tarabai Kharkate (60), who lived on the fringe of the forest, had gone to dump daily garbage into the jungle early morning. She was attacked by a lurking leopard and was killed on the spot. The beast dragged her body a few meters into the shrubs and devoured nearly 25% of body parts, including the head. As Kharkate lived alone, her disappearance was not immediately noticed. However, when Kharkate’s brothers did not found her at home, they searched around and found mutilated body in compartment no. 1012 under Chichgaon beat in the afternoon. There was brief tension in the village as this was second incident of leopard attack in the area. Earlier, a 10-year-old boy was killed while he was on morning walk along with his friends last month. Forest officials defused the tension by assuring safety to the villagers and increasing patrolling and vigilance in the area. RFO Poonam Bramhane confirmed the death in leopard attack and claimed that forest officials have noticed pugmarks of the animal near the body. She claimed there is known presence of leopard in the area and it has also been caught in camera trap photos on early occasion. Bramhane said more camera traps are being installed in the area and people have been warned to remain alert. Foresters have given ex gratia aid of Rs20,000 to the kin of the victim woman and handed over the body after post mortem. This is 29th human kill in predator attacks in Chandrapur district this year. It includes 23 killed in tiger attacks, five killed by leopard and one was killed in bear attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leopard-kills-woman-in-north-bramhapuri-range/articleshow/79554065.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Vendors allotted sites in Sec 26, market panel to take over now||CHANDIGARH: The market committee will earmark and develop the vending zone in Sector 26 grain market to resettle 23 eligible street vendors of the area after the municipal corporation conducted the draw of lots on Thursday and handed over the documents to the panel officials. Since the grain market doesn’t fall under the domain of the MC, sources said from now the market committee would supervise the exercise. The draw of lots was conducted peacefully and officials of both the MC and the market committee were present. The list of the successful vendors will be put up in public domain. “Since the legal experts have clarified that the mandi doesn’t fall under the domain of the MC, the committee will look into the related affairs, though we are always ready to help. Legally, the area belongs to the committee,” sources in the MC said. Committee officials have started earmarking the land to develop vending sites and encroachments are being vacated. As this area was earlier out of street vending zone, maximum vendors came here. Now removing them will be a challenge for the authorities. The MC also conducted a draw of lots for 40 eligible street vendors for Maloya. They were earlier living in Colony Number 4 and given sites at IT Park. But as now their colony has shifted to Maloya and IT Park sites are too far away, they have been given these sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vendors-allotted-sites-in-sec-26-market-panel-to-take-over-now/articleshow/79554104.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Marki-Mangli block allottee accused of illegal ore export||Nagpur: Odisha’s Yazdani International that has bagged the controversial and environmentally sensitive Marki-Mangli coal block in Yavatmal is embroiled in other mining related cases too. The coal block lies in the middle of a forest and is part of the tiger corridor. Environment activists have raised concern over mining in the area. Report submitted by a special investigation team (SIT) in Karnataka says the company was involved in illegal export of iron ore. The company has been charged with violating Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation (MMDR) Act, apart from other violations. A charge sheet has been filed and the case is being heard before a special judge in Karnataka. The company had filed a writ petition before the Karnataka high court seeking that the charge sheet be quashed. The plea has been dismissed over a week ago. This means, the case will go on. TOI had earlier reported that even as the company had bagged the mine in Vidarbha through competitive bidding, Yazdani International has a negative net worth of over Rs20 crore. This raises doubt over its financial capacity to take up the project. The allegations in the Karnataka case is that the company’s managing director and director entered into a criminal conspiracy and illegally transported 49,701 metric tonne iron ore to Belikeri port in Karnataka. The ore was sold within India and also exported without proper approval, leading to a loss of over Rs6 crore to the state exchequer. It has been observed by the Karnataka high court that if the magistrate or court is of the opinion that there is sufficient ground for proceeding in the matter, summons have to be issued to the accused. There is no bar on the court taking cognisance of the offence under Section 379 of India Penal Code along with offence under sections (4) and (41A) of MMDR Act. The element of conspiracy, cheating and breach of trust are already reflected in the charge sheet. Section 379 deals with theft and the provisions of MMDR Act deal with transport and storing of minerals. Senior Congress leader in Odisha Narsingh Misra said names of eight companies have emerged in connection with violation of norms related to environment and safety in the state. He said Serajuddin and Co was one of the entities. TOI found that Serajuddin and Yazdani belong with the same group with common directors in both the entities. Misra said he had also raised the iron ore mining issue in the legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/marki-mangli-block-allottee-accused-of-illegal-ore-export/articleshow/79554094.cms||Shishir Arya
December 4, 2020||Pune||Pune: Trio drive away with traffic cop’s walkie-talkie||PUNE: The Wakad police are searching for three men who drove away after a traffic constable’s walkie-talkie fell into their car. Around 2.45pm Wednesday, the complainant, assistant sub-inspector Sanjay Kamte (53), spotted the car — with three occupants not wearing masks — halted at a traffic signal at Shivar Chowk in Rahatni. Assistant inspector Avinash Pawar said Kamte, holding his walkie-talkie, approached the car and told the driver to stop by the roadside. “At that moment, the signal turned green and the driver drove the vehicle forward. The car bumped against Kamte’s hand and the walkie-talkie fell inside,” Pawar said. “Kamte could not note down the car’s registration number as other vehicles started moving. We are studying CCTV footage to identify the car,” he said. Police have registered an offence under sections 186 (obstructing a public servant from discharging duty), 353 (assault or criminal force on public servant) and 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-drive-away-with-traffic-cops-walkie-talkie/articleshow/79554108.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Pay Rs 35k per acre to farmers hit by Nivar’||Tirupati: Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan reiterated that the government compensate farmers who lost their crops in cyclone Nivar by paying Rs 35,000 per acre. The Jana Sena chief who is on a three-day tour of flood-affected areas in Chittoor and Nellore districts spoke to reporters in Tirupati on Thursday evening. “As per preliminary reports crops on an extent of nearly 17 lakh acres were damaged completely during cyclone Nivar. Four farmers who lost their crops and were in no financial position to repay their debts have committed suicide. Farmers across several districts affected are in agony and it is the responsibility of the government to come to their rescue through appropriate compensation. We demand the government release Rs 10,000 as immediate aid to farmers who lost their crops,” said Kalyan. “In a democracy there are times at which to confront and there are times to cooperate. We have come here today not to confront the government but to cooperate with the government to come to the rescue of the farming community who are up in arms. The Jana Sena will tour all flood-affected districts and submit a comprehensive report to the state and central governments. We will not rest until each and every farmer is compensated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pay-rs-35k-per-acre-to-farmers-hit-by-nivar/articleshow/79552845.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 4, 2020||Pune||Police search for journo in NCP worker murder case||Pune: The Ahmednagar police on Wednesday claimed to have cracked the murder case of NCP women’s wing leader Rekha Jare and were on a lookout for a senior journalist of a vernacular daily for hatching the murder conspiracy. Ahmednagar SP Manoj Patil on Thursday said the probe into the murder case revealed that the journalist and one more suspect executed the murder of Jare through contract killing. Jare was hacked to death on November 30 while she was driving home on Pune-Ahmednagar highway. Police arrested five persons, who will be in police custody till December 7. Two of the arrested told police that the journalist had given them money for the murder, Patil said, adding that Rs6.2 lakh was recovered from them. “We can ascertain the murder motive after arresting the duo on the run,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-search-for-journo-in-ncp-worker-murder-case/articleshow/79554105.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Externed criminal nabbed in Bhosari||The Bhosari MIDC police late on Wednesday night arrested a criminal for pelting a police constable with stones, when the latter tried to arrest him for violating an externment order. The suspect, Nilesh Pawar (24) of Moshi, was externed from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad for two years in August. When they learnt that Pawar had violated the order, a police team went to take him into custody, when the incident occurred, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/externed-criminal-nabbed-in-bhosari/articleshow/79554110.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Cycle sharing project to roll out from December 10||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Smart City Limited’s (CSCL) ambitious project of public bicycle sharing will pedal ahead, as UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has given his consent to launch it on December 10. The first phase of the project will start from 25 docking stations and Badnore will launch it from the Rock Garden-based one. The project will be launched with 225 bicycles, including both battery-operated and manual. All the 25 docking stations were selected keeping footfall in mind. Sources say the testing of the mobile app, through which the bicycles will be available, has been completed and it has got approval for the launch. “Since the mobile app is the most crucial thing in this project, a lot of effort was put into it,” sources add. An official says, “All the required documents have been submitted to the electricity department for connection to install the charging points at every docking station. Over 10 bicycles can be easily parked at each docking station. Work on geo-fencing has also started. A vehicle has been purchased and it will move to all these 25 docking stations to replenish bicycles wherever required.” The CSCL has also done the testing of all 225 bicycles and a technical team of the company has also set up their command and control centre and a complaint point. MC commissioner and CEO of CSCL KK Yadav says, “The project is all set to start from Thursday and we are hopeful that people will make cycling a habit.” Out of the total 25 docking stations in the first phase of the project, maximum (eight) have come up in Sector 17, followed by four stations in Sector 22. Since both these areas have major footfall, optimum bicycles will be available at docking stations of these two sectors. The charges to take a bicycle will be Rs 20 for one hour and Rs 10 for half-an-hour. The charges will be similar for both battery-operated bicycles and manual bicycles. The authority has different modes of payment and everything will be connected through the mobile app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cycle-sharing-project-to-roll-out-from-dec-10/articleshow/79554109.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Cousins held for sheltering gangster||CHANDIGARH: UT police have nabbed two cousins of on-the-run gangster Monty Shah for allegedly arranging a car for him and sheltering him after he shot at two witnesses in Sonu Shah murder case in Burail on October 12. The cops have also impounded the car. Sector 34 police station SHO Baldev Kumar said, “The two cousins of Monty are Mohit and Vinay, residents of Kalka. On a tip-off that the duo was coming to the city, a checkpoint was set up near the roundabout of sectors 29/31/Industrial Area phases 1 and 2. Their car was intercepted and during interrogation, they revealed that they had borrowed the car from a known in Mohali on the pretext of going to a temple in Bangar, Rajasthan.”  But after borrowing the car, they reached the office of Parveen Shah, brother of Sonu Shah, in Burail where Tirath Singh was also present. Both Parveen and Tirath are witnesses in the Sonu Shah murder case. “Monty fired around five to six rounds at them, but they escaped unhurt. On their statement, an attempt to murder case was registered against Monty,” the SHO added. After firing the shots, the three accused fled to Kalka in the car and Monty stayed at the house of Vinay, cops said. Later, Monty escaped to Rajasthan and since then they were not in touch.  After the completion of two-day police remand, the duo was produced before a local court that sent them to judicial custody on Thursday. Monty is a member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang and wanted to kill Parveen and Tirath on his directions. The Bishnoi gang had taken responsibility for the murder of Sonu Shah. UT police had announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on information leading to Monty, who is booked in seven cases here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cousins-held-for-sheltering-gangster/articleshow/79554111.cms||Pawan Tiwari
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cops rule out homicide angle in Dr Sheetal’s death||Chandrapur: The investigators are zeroing in on suicide angle in the death of renowned social worker Baba Amte’s granddaughter Dr Sheetal Amte. Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi, 39, who was CEO of Maharogi Seva Samiti at Anandwan, founded by Baba Amte, had died on Monday morning under suspicious circumstances at her residence. Police sources say based on extensive questioning of the witnesses and evidences gathered from the scene, the investigators have ruled out homicide angle in the case. It is widely speculated that Dr Sheetal had committed suicide by injecting herself with lethal dose of some medicine. The investigators are, however, not ready to reveal the details of the post mortem report considering the high-profile nature of the case. Statements of family members present in the house when Dr Sheetal died, maids, medicine suppliers etc have been recorded by the police. Though the police have not recovered suicide note, they are trying to analyse the contents in Dr Sheetal’s mobile, tablet/laptop which may hold some clue. As the electronic devices are password protected, these gadgets were handed over to cyber experts in Nagpur. As the experts in Nagpur failed to crack the password, the police will be sending these devices to experts in Mumbai police. Warora SDPO Nilesh Pande claimed the police had recovered a syringe beside Dr Sheetal’s body, and it has been sent to forensic lab to ascertain whether blood on its needle is that of the deceased. Cops are also trying to corroborate the findings of the post mortem report with the evidences found at the scene and statements of the witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-rule-out-homicide-angle-in-dr-sheetals-death/articleshow/79554107.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Lobbying begins for ANU vice-chancellor post||Amaravati: With governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan returning the state government’s recommendation for appointment of Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) vice-chancellor, other strong contenders have intensified lobbying to secure the prized post. Last month, the government sent names for appointment of vice-chancellors to Andhra University, Sri Krishnadevaraya University, Sri Venkateswara University, Dravida University and Rayalaseema University along with ANU for the governor’s approval. Sources said the government had forwarded one name each for each university for the governor’s approval as per the amendment to the Universities Act. With the governor keeping the vice-chancellor’s appointment file with him for nearly three weeks, speculation picked up that he might have decided to return all proposals in view of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed in the high court challenging the amendment to the Universities Act. As per the UGC Act, the state government should forward all three names suggested by the search committee to the governor and the governor will, at his discretion, pick one of the three names for the vice-chancellor’s post. However, the state government amended the Act in 2019, facilitating the recommendation of a single name to the governor. After keeping the file pertaining to the appointment of vice-chancellors pending for about three weeks, the governor stamped his nod for appointment of vice-chancellors to five universities and returned the proposal for ANU to the government. The state government has issued appointment orders for the other universities after getting the green signal from the governor. Sources said that the governor rejected the name proposed by the state government in view of the controversies and cases pending against in-charge vice-chancellor at ANU, P Rajasekhar, who was one of the top contenders for the regular vice-chancellor’s post. It was learnt that the government is now reportedly considering recommending the name of a woman professor for the ANU vice-chancellor post to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lobbying-begins-for-anu-vice-chancellor-post/articleshow/79552859.cms||Samdani MN
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Curtain rises on Jeanneret Museum with nameplating of trees||After remaining shut for over nine months, the city museums have finally opened for the holed-up knowledge-seekers and curious minds of Chandigarh with Covid safety protocols in place. During the long closure, events and programmes marking landmark occasions that bond people with museums stood suspended, disrupting a crucial link. Pierre Jeanneret’s death anniversary on December 4 offers the perfect opportunity to rekindle the city’s connect with the unassuming, modest Frenchman who was Le Corbusier’s right hand man for the Chandigarh project; and to whom the city owes so many of its outstanding buildings—including the ethereal lotus-shaped Gandhi Bhawan on the Panjab University campus. To commemorate the occasion, the architecture museums of Chandigarh in collaboration with the Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) group is organising installation of information plates on trees and shrubs growing in the Jeanneret Museum, Sector 5. It was inaugurated on March 22, 2016, after painstaking restoration of the old house, where he lived for 11 years from 1954-65.  Much as the architecture of planning of the city is celebrated world over, its planned landscaping incorporating trees and vegetation is equally critical to its fame as a Garden City. To cherish and uphold this precious green heritage, it’s crucial to acquaint the ‘green fingers’ of the city and all nature lovers more intimately with the city’s trees and plants. Towards this cause, the city’s enthusiastic Chandigarh Tree Lovers group has been regularly conducting tree walks, lectures, student workshops, among others, to impart more knowledge regarding its green gold. Even during the Covid-imposed hibernation, it kept up the movement through online mediums. In a similar exercise done earlier at the Le Corbusier Centre, the naming of trees and plants was taken up by CTL. The akin activity will be undertaken at the Jeanneret Museum on December 4 during the visit of UT adviser Manoj Parida to the campus. The CTL had earlier partnered with the municipal corporation, too, in installation of nameplates on tree avenues. It has plans to soon undertake a similar and larger exercise at the Government Museum & Art Gallery. The Jeanneret house’s landscaping, in keeping with the vision of Dr M S Randhawa to have productive landscape along with ornamental in the city, has an interesting mix of fruit and flowering trees. Besides mango trees, other fruit-bearing trees growing in the museum are guava, chikku, bael. Flowering trees like bottle brush and champa are also visible. Two eye-catching ‘green skyscrapers’ of the landscape are the: Buddha’s coconut tree with its 50-60 feet height with huge evergreen leaves dotting its periphery and the other is ‘Christmas tree’ (auracaria cookii) jutting up along the backside of the house.The cost of the nameplates is being borne entirely by CTL from its meagre resources as a voluntary group. Listing of all existing plants was done by its expert Dr Harjit Singh Dhillon beforehand. The nameplate design is in accordance with environmental norms. Museums have grown beyond being mere repositories of old dusty documents, drawings and objects. Small details like tree nameplates draw attention of the visitors to the exemplary green heritage of Chandigarh that the ‘founding fathers’ like Pierre Jeanneret bestowed on us. Rajnish Wattas is former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture, a heritage expert and founder-member of CTL. Deepika Gandhi is director of Le Corbusier Centre and architectural museums||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/curtain-rises-on-jeanneret-museum-with-nameplating-of-trees/articleshow/79554115.cms||Rajnish Wattas
December 4, 2020||Pune||Hawala case: Rs 3.47 crore & vehicles seized, 9 in net||Pune: The city police seized Rs3.47 crore from four commercial blocks in Budhwar Peth following a raid on Wednesday afternoon. The counting of currency notes continued till early on Thursday. Police also arrested nine men for running the hawala racket linked to illegal sale of gutka. The cash was generated through illegal sale of gutkha, police said. All the nine men were produced before a city court on Thursday afternoon and later released on bail. Deputy commissioner of police (Crime) Bachchan Singh said, “Police arrested nine men in the case.” Singh said the police have seized Rs3.47 crore cash from the commercial establishments during the raid. The police also seized two cars, one two-wheeler, cash counting machine and other articles collectively worth Rs1.31 lakh. Singh said a few weeks ago, the police arrested grocery shopkeeper Suresh Mulchand Agarwal (54) who sold gutka to people known to him. Agarwal sourced the banned tobacco product from Navnath Kalbhor. The police then arrested Kalbhor on November 22 and seized a large amount of packed gutka from him. During questioning, Kalbhor spilled the beans about the hawala racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hawala-case-rs-3-47-crore-vehicles-seized-9-in-net/articleshow/79554113.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Meerut||Meerut jeweller’s murder: Last absconding accused arrested after encounter||MEERUT: Almost three months after a prominent jeweller was shot dead by four armed men inside his showroom in a busy Meerut market, police have arrested the last absconding accused after an encounter. The three other accused have already been arrested. Aman Jain, 26, was killed on September 8. The daylight murder of the bullion trader had shocked the trader community. In the encounter, Ajay Singh was shot in the leg. He was admitted to a hospital and a pistol was also recovered from him, police said. Pramod Kumar Gautam, SHO of Medical Police Station, said, “We got a tip-off about the presence of Ajay near Jagriti Vihar extension and we cordoned off the area. He was accompanied by a friend who escaped taking advantage of the darkness. When challenged, Ajay opened fire at the police and got injured in the leg in the retaliatory fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/city-jewellers-murder-last-absconding-accused-arrested-after-encounter/articleshow/79552864.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 4, 2020||Chennai||‘Spiritual politics means clean politics. We will bring change’||For 60-year-old Ra Arjunamurthy, it was "spiritual politics" that drew him to Rajinikanth. After being associated with ‘Murasoli’ Maran for more than seven years, he was the brain behind a Near Field Communication venture Yeldi Softcom. He now has the onerous task of getting the political infrastructure ready in 29 days for the launch of Rajinikanth’s party. He shares his thoughts with TOI. Excerpts:Q: What made you want to work with Rajinikanth?His thoughts of spiritual politics. Now people get confused about this. Spiritualism brings with it responsibility and personal hygiene. Q: What is your role in his party?I am the chief convenor of the party. ‘Thalaivar’ has some film shootings to be completed. We must get everything ready for the political party, starting with its registration. My role will be to get it done on behalf of him. Simply put: I have to put in place a system, politically, statutorily and technologically in less than a month. Q: But you were with the BJP as its head of intellectual cell.I resigned this morning [Thursday] and my resignation has been accepted too. If you say I was with the BJP then you should also look at the fact that I was associated with ‘Murasoli’ Maran for seven years. Does that mean I was a DMK man in the BJP? I hope that answers. We are now working at creating a paradigm shift in state politics. The BJP is a national party, but in Tamil Nadu one needs a popularity base with a clear focus. Please show me one person other than ‘Thalaivar’ who ticks those boxes. We will promise that there would be no thuggery in what we do. Even today, ‘Thalaivar’ is friends with EPS and Stalin. Isn’t that different? Q: Social media is abuzz with comments that you are a BJP man in Rajni’s party?People can say what they want. I was doing my business. A spiritual calling from my Guruji in Theni brought me to politics. To me politics is a tool to uplift downtrodden people. For example at the BJP the two projects that I was associated with, Kodi Ozhi (a solar powered lamp for every flag post) and livelihood improvement in slums, were a success. These two also brought me closer to ‘Thalaivar’ who wants to ride the technology wave for upliftment. Q: How would you go about it?With just four months we have to match the political infrastructure of the established parties. This is possible only with technology. My role is to bring various tech tools and build the technology architecture of the party which will help reach every nook and corner of the state in the shortest period of time.Q: Can you share some more details?While we are still getting into it. For instance, we have already completed booth-level planning for the party. We have the data, people profiles and I have to create the blueprint to use that data. We must create an analytical engine which will help in spreading the word about the party’s ideology. One of the priorities of the party is to reduce unemployment in the state. Q: Why was there so much delay in the announcement?There is no delay. ‘Thalaivar’ needed time to take a call. It is part of the process. His style is to look deeper into everything and analyse. He took the call and we are here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spiritual-politics-means-clean-politics-we-will-bring-change/articleshow/79556326.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 4, 2020||Pune||Policeman on duty dies||Pune: Assistant sub-inspector (57) Anil Sambhaji Shinde, posted at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, died on Thursday after suffering a cardiac arrest around 1.30am. Police said Shinde, from Khadak Police Colony, was on night duty, when he collapsed in the bathroom at Dattanagar police chowkey. Two constables, who were on night duty at the chowkey with Shinde, rushed him to hospital. Shinde was scheduled to retire in April 2021, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/policeman-on-duty-dies/articleshow/79554119.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CS’s ‘divide & rule’ policy irks officials||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Dissatisfaction is brewing among several senior bureaucrats on the latest changes and charge arrangements of senior IAS officers in the state. Several officials cite that the appointment of multiple officers as secretaries in the same department and the division of work tends to weaken those officers who raised principled objection to some pertinent policy issues in the recent past. Chief secretary Vishwas Mehta issued one such order on Tuesday. Additional chief secretary (labour and skills) Satyajeet Rajan has been given a second additional charge of the general administration department as well. Interestingly, he has been appointed above the existing principal secretary (general administration) K R Jyothilal, who has several years of experience. The order also says that all the important files, policy matters, cabinet notes and service matters should be hereafter routed through Rajan. Similarly, secretary (social justice and women and child development) Biju Prabhakar, who is also the chairman and MD of KSRTC, has been appointed as secretary in the transport department, another charge held by Jyothilal. Sources said that when there are multiple secretaries in a department, it is possible to bypass one secretary using the other, in case there is a difference of opinion with the chief secretary or higher ups. “Also, which files should be routed through the senior official and which are not required is a matter of interpretation,” a top official said. The trend to dilute a senior officer by posting another secretary is visible in several other key departments too. The case in point is the home department, where for the first time, a secretary was posted in addition to the existing additional chief secretary (home and vigilance), who is also secretary of the finance (expenditure) and ports departments. Similarly, in PWD, along with Anand Singh who was holding the charge of secretary, Dinesh Arora, who is otherwise holding the charge of secretary of power department, was also appointed. Earlier, when M Sivasankar was removed from the Information Technology department, the government had appointed Mohammed Y Safirulla as the secretary in-charge. In addition, the government has now appointed Saurabh Jain, who also holds the charge of taxes (excise), in the same department. Legal experts said that the direction for routing the files in the government order reciting appointments is not in tune with the rules of business. As per the rule 23 of the rules of business, the division of work among two secretaries of the same department is the prerogative of the minister, which is an internal affair of the concerned department. The chief secretary cannot exercise any power to issue directions on file-routing within a portfolio held by the minister. However, transport minister A K Saseendran said that the decision to appoint a secretary in addition to K R Jyothilal in his department is with his concurrence to reduce his workload. “It was his own proposal to request for another person too in the department citing health reasons. Appointing two secretaries for a department is not new and is a common practice followed by all the departments whenever it is felt necessary,” Saseendran said. However, he did not comment on the order that mandates the mode of file-routing between the departmental secretaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/css-divide-rule-policy-irks-officials/articleshow/79552923.cms||KP Saikiran
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||On Challan Day, JMC collects Rs 8.54 lakh fine for not wearing masks||JAIPUR: Taking strict action against people for not wearing masks and not following social distancing, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater and Heritage, on Thursday, booked 1,825 people and recovered a fine of Rs 8,54,300. This was part of a campaign run by JMC called ‘Challan Day’. Similarly, many establishments were sealed in Hawa Mahal, Amber zone, Malviya Nagar, Jhotwara and Adarsh Nagar zone for not following the corona guidelines issued by the government. Acting on the instructions of commissioner, JMC Heritage, Lokbandhu and of Greater, Arun Garg, the teams invoiced people who were without masks in the two corporation limits. In Malviya Nagar zone, 50 people were penalised by two teams. Similarly, 22 people were fined for not follow social distancing. Rs 52,400 was recovered from the proceedings under the leadership of deputy commissioner Suresh Chaudhary. Lakhmi Mishthan Bhandar, located in Jhotwara zone, was fined Rs. 30,000 for non-masked staff. In Sanganer zone, two teams were formed under the direction of deputy commissioner Abha Beniwal, while taking action, they challaned 95 people and collected a fine of Rs 51,500. In addition, three teams of Vigilance Branch in JMC, Greater and Heritage penalised a total of 75 people. Acting under deputy commissioner Rakesh Yadav in Greater, teams fined 45 people and collected Rs 44,100. In Heritage, three teams challaned 30 people and charged a fine of Rs 15,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/on-challan-day-jmc-collects-rs-8-54-lakh-fine-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/79554153.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Independent gets most 1st preference votes in Amravati||Amravati: Voters in Amravati division teachers’ constituency seem to have rejected political candidates as an independent — Kiran Sarnaik — from Washim has taken 961-vote lead over sitting MLC and Shiv Sena candidate Shrikant Deshpande after the count of first preference votes. While Sarnaik polled 6,095 first preference votes, Deshpande got 5,135. BJP’s Dr Nitin Dhande cut a sorry figure, finishing sixth with 2,130 votes after the count of first preference votes. Another independent Shekhar Bhoyar was third with 4,889 votes, while Sangita Shinde-Bonde was fourth with 2,869 votes and Avinash Borde was fifth with 2,757 votes in the race for the member of legislative council seat from teachers’ constituency. Of the 30,918 votes polled, 29,829 were found valid, leaving 1,089 infructuous. Based of the total valid votes, a quota of 14,916 has been decided for the winner. As no candidate reached this quota of first preference votes, the elimination process has begun. Sarnaik retained his top position right from first round till the end of fifth sub-round, when all votes were counted for the first preference. Sarnaik, who has two offences registered against him for allegedly distributing Paithani saris and cash to voters, will now have to bank on the second preference votes during the elimination round. The counting began at 8am at Vilasnagar godown under the supervision of divisional commissioner Piyush Singh, who is also returning officer, and observer Anand Limaye. Mixing of ballots and preparing bundles took a lot of time. This resulted in the first round results being declared around 3pm even though there were 14 tables. Though Sarnaik leads in the first preference vote count, the picture may change after the elimination round, say experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/independent-gets-most-1st-preference-votes-in-amravati/articleshow/79554114.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||PMC to inspect pending drainage work in Kothrud||PUNE: The civic body plans to inspect the pending drainage line work in Kothrud-Karvenagar areas. The decision was taken after Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizen’s group, demanded that action be taken against contractors, consultant and civic officials for incomplete work of sewage pipelines in Kothrud- Karvenagar area. TimesViewIt is the duty of the civic body to ensure that infrastructure work is completed properly. There have been several instances where projects have got delayed, portions have been left incomplete, and even the quality of work has raised doubts. It is the job of the departments concerned to keep a watch on such projects and carry out regular inspections so that any defect is rectified within the defect liability period. Extra care must be taken when the project concerns pollution mitigation, health and safety of citizens.The group has alleged that the project of closed pipeline was announced by the PMC in 2017 for diverting sewage to the treatment plants. But the work has remained half done at Patwardhanbaug for the last three years, leading to discharge of sewage through open lines causing river pollution. The manch said the civic body had issued tenders of around Rs56 crore for diverting the sewage through closed pipeline. The project included laying of 1200 mm diameter pipeline and construction of chambers. But proper connections have not been done in some spots from Gandhi lawns to Saket society stretch, leading to sewage entering the river. “It is a wastage of public money. The leakages are affecting treatment capacity of the sewage treatment plant at Erandwane,” said Vivek Velankar of the manch. “Our team will visit the spot and inspect the location. The contractor and officials will be instructed to resolve the issue at the earliest,” said Lalit Bendre, executive engineer, PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-inspect-pending-drainage-work-in-kothrud/articleshow/79554158.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||PTR to crack down on illicit liquor brewers in forest area||Pilibhit: In a bid to check distillation of illicit liquor in the forest and its fringe areas, Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) authorities in coordination with the district excise department, have identified the spots where the illegal activity has been carried out in the past and compiled a list of offenders. In addition, a seven-member enforcement committee has been constituted while orders for stepping up patrolling at the identified spots have been issued. Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR, said the distillation spots were in Gopalpur and Sirsa forest area, the buffer zones of PTR, while four places were detected in Haripur forest range, seven in Barahi, six in Mala, five in Deuria and three in Mahof. All these spots are situated near water bodies as water is essential for liquor distillation. Human presence near the water bodies is the worst source of disturbance to wildlife, said Khandelwal. The forester said with the help of excise department’s records, as many as 35 offenders were identified in Puranpur tehsil circle, 14 in Madhotanda police station circle, 10 in Seramau North area, six each in Gajraula and Neuria and three each in Deuria and Bilsanda. The enforcement committee, headed by Praveen Khare, sub divisional forest officer of Puranpur circle, would take decisions on cracking down on illicit liquor brewers, Khandelwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ptr-to-crack-down-on-illicit-liquor-brewers-in-forest-area/articleshow/79552890.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1,000 cops under fitness, corruption scrutiny||NAGPUR: Physical fitness as well as professional integrity of around 1,100 cops is under the scanner after a five-member review committee has started scanning the record of the personnel who are above 50 and 55 years of age or have served more than 30 years, whichever is earlier. The 50 years of age criteria is for officers of Class I and II, while 55 years is for the subsequent two classes in the police force. Personnel, who would be found ailing with any serious health condition or having serious allegations or cases of corruption against them, may be asked to leave even before the retirement age is attained. As per a government resolution of June last year, a five-member committee has been formed comprising DCP, headquarters, ACP, headquarters, chief medical officer of police hospital, SP Anti-Corruption Bureau and office superintendent. The committee will be functioning under DCP, headquarters, Sandeep Pakhale. While the committee started its work on Wednesday, records of 400 cops have been scanned till Thursday. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer, was engaged in reviewing medical records of the personnel and interviewing them regarding their present health condition, including mental fitness. According to a senior official, cops having unfit medical record or other adverse reports regarding their service would be in the firing line. “A proposal to terminate the services of cops having weak medical condition or those facing serious allegations would be sent to the government to take a final call. Though such instances are rare, government may decide to terminate the services before the age of retirement of the cops concerned,” said the officer. In city, no unfit cop or the one facing serious allegations has been found by the committee so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1k-cops-under-fitness-corruption-scrutiny/articleshow/79554156.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||JDA to seek govt order for RCA land allotment||Jaipur: After the urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal imposed a ban on development authorities and urban improvement trusts (UIT) in the state to allot land at concessional rates, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will seek state government’s direction before giving land to the Rajasthan Cricket Academy (RCA).The RCA has made a request for land allotment to construct third largest cricket stadium in the world with a seating capacity of 75,000 spectators. For the same, the academy has demanded around 40.6 hectares to develop a stadium at Chop village on Jaipur-Delhi national highway.An official source said, “It was earlier decided to allot land at a rate of 30% of district lease committee (DLC) rates. Directions were sought to lay the conditions of the allotment. But the final decision will be made by Dhariwal.”Sources said as per the proposal, the RCA was expecting a land allotment on 10% of DLC rates. However, after the land allotment policy 2015 was formulated, the JDA on its own cannot decide land allotment at concessional rates.“DLC rate in Chop village is Rs 29.85 lakh. Also, institutional rate is Rs 7,500 per sqm. Permission from the state government is required to allot the prime land on concessional rates,” said a source.According to a senior JDA official, during the previous Congress tenure, the civic body had allotted nearly 18.16 hectares to RCA in Chop village in 2012. However, the then BJP government cancelled it in 2017 claiming that the academy did not adhere to the terms and conditions.An official source said, “The state government has directed to revoke the cancellation. It has also identified adjoining 17 hectares to develop a stadium. Now, the total land is 40.6 hectares.”The academy claims this will be the third-largest stadium (having a capacity of approximately 75,000) after the Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad and the Melbourne cricket stadium. Motera has a seating capacity of 1.10 lakh, while the Melbourne stadium can host 1.02 lakh people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-to-seek-govt-order-for-rca-land-allotment/articleshow/79554160.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Commission seeks factual reports from three depts on Bharatpur home incident||Jaipur: The state commission for protection of child rights has sought factual reports from district collector, district’s child welfare committee and directorate for child rights on the incident of liquor party being organised at one of the child protection homes in Bharatpur.“The district’s child welfare committee has already sent us a factual report. District collector and directorate of child rights have sought three days’ time to submit the report. Some of the children living in the protection home were involved in organizing the liquor party. We will take appropriate action after we receive all the reports,” said chairperson of the commission Sangeeta Beniwal.An FIR was lodged on the directions of Bharatpur district collector Nathmal Didel against the caretaker of a child protection home, placement agency and other employees for allowing liquor party by some children staying there and also uploading a video on social media.Instructions were given by the collector to ensure proper arrangements for the safety of the children staying at the protection home. He also directed to replace the jammers on the premises, camera installed in the corridor and the defective camera installed outside. He also asked the officials to repair the window grill.Expressing displeasure over the incident, the chairperson of state commission for protection of child rights Sangeeta Beniwal had directed the district collector on Wednesday to conduct a thorough investigation into the incident. A three-member committee was formed to investigate the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/commission-seeks-factual-reports-from-three-depts-on-bharatpur-home-incident/articleshow/79554195.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Gang of four busted, nine recent burglaries solved||PUNE: The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday claimed to have solved nine recent burglaries with the arrest of a four-man gang. The police have recovered gold and silver ornaments collectively worth Rs19.6 lakh. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said they were also on the hunt for a jeweller from Hadapsar, who purchased stolen ornaments worth Rs5.5 lakh from the gang. The arrested men were identified as Chandrakant Mane (27), Raju Devnath (20) and Amol Mali (27) of Chinchwad, and Ram Kshirsagar (26) of Osmanabad district. “Mane has 46 cases against his name, and has also been externed from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Devnath was booked in 18 cases, while Kshirsagar and Mali have been named in six and 10 cases, respectively,” Prakash added. The commissioner said Mane was also involved in smuggling firearms along with a man, who was arrested by the Bhosari police on Tuesday with four country-made pistols in his possession. A team led by senior inspector Prasad Gokule arrested the gang. “The suspects would ride in Mali’s autorickshaw during the day and identify housing societies with no security guards or CCTV cameras. Mane and Devnath would then break into empty flats and steal valuables,” Gokule said. Assistant inspector Ambarish Deshmukh said they received information that Devnath and a woman had gone to Osmanabad with gold ornaments. “We rushed to Osmanabad and took Devnath and Kshirsagar into custody from the latter’s house,” Deshmukh said. Mane and Mali were arrested based on the information given by Devnath and Kshirsagar, said Deshmukh. Interestingly enough, the Kondhwa police had on October 21 arrested Mane and others in a burglary case. The suspects were, however, released by a court in four days. Commissioner Prakash said they have observed that those arrested in burglary cases take to crime immediately after being released. “We are working to get maximum convictions for such suspects and curb burglaries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-of-four-busted-nine-recent-burglaries-solved/articleshow/79554150.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||New street lamps for unlit stretches near Metro sites||Pune: The authorities have installed street lights to illuminate stretches of the road where Metro station work is under way. On November 22, TOI reported that long stretches of the road that came under the cement slabs for the stations’ concourse were shrouded in darkness — with the under-construction infrastructure stopping light from the street lamps from reaching the ground. Motorists had complained that they faced a heightened risk of accidents on these stretches at night. Officials from the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) and Pune Municipal Corporation said they have now installed lights on the affected portions near the Vanaz and Anandnagar stations on Paud Road and Garware College station on Karve Road.“PMC has a separate mechanism for the operation of street lights. So the civic authorities installed lights at a lower level compared to ordinary street lights. Similar arrangements will be put in place at all sites with poor lighting due to the ongoing Metro work,” a MahaMetro official said. The official further said this was only a temporary solution, and assured that they would ready a long-term solution with the civic administration. “We will discuss how lighting arrangements can be made below the Metro station boxes, as the Metro will be running on a viaduct in many areas of the city. Some options include using poles of lesser height along the medians or on either side of the road,” the official said. MahaMetro is constructing stations at four locations on the Vanaz-Garware College stretch — Vanaz (where a car shed too is coming up), Anandnagar, Ideal Colony and Garware College. These stations come under the 5km priority section of the Vanaz-Ramwadi Metro corridor. The work on Vanaz, Anandnagar and Garware College is at an advanced stage, officials said.This stretch was to have been completed by April this year, following by Metro rake trials, before the coronavirus pandemic upended all plans. While many workers -- who had left for their hometowns during the lockdown -- have since returned, an official said the situation was still far from ideal — they were still short of over 1,000 workers from an expected allocation of 6,200. “The manpower scenario improved by August. We are in touch with our contractors to deploy more workers to make up for the days lost during the lockdown,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-street-lamps-for-unlit-stretches-near-metro-sites/articleshow/79554176.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Cloverleaf structures at 2 highways to be built in 2 years||JAIPUR: As bone of contention in acquiring land for the cloverleaf at Agra Road remains, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has now invited tenders for the other two highways to construct the structures. The transport corridor of the 47-km southern Ring Road, connects Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road. While, the JDA has successfully acquired land for the construction of structures at Ajmer Road and Tonk Road, challenge remains at Agra Road. Earlier, the authority had decided to invite tenders for all three highways together. However, after facing a persistent delay, the plan was altered. An official said, “The estimated cost to construct cloverleaf structures at Ajmer Road and Tonk Road is Rs 118 crore. The land has been provided by the JDA and construction will be completed in two years,” he said. It was explained, with the help of a structure, the vehicles can cross the junction without any signal. The engineers adopt, grade separation technique or ramping mechanism for constructing the structure and it consists of one or more ramps to allow the traffic flow from one or more highways through the junction even without actually crossing it or without disturbing the movement of other traffic streams. In March, the state government had cleared the proposal to provide compensation to the affected landowners whose 3,200 square metre land was acquired to construct cloverleaf structure on Agra Road. “The JDA had decided to allot 1,100 square metre land to the affected owners in Chitrakoot area after receiving a nod from the state government. But, the deadlock between the authority and the land owner remains over compensation,” said a JDA official. The crucial Ring Road Project, which was constructed after spending Rs 1,235 crore, was delayed by nearly one and half years. However, after facing constant delay, the authorities have made the project operational using temporary plan. The access at all three highways from where entry and exists start has been provided after constructing temporary slip lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cloverleaf-structures-at-2-highways-to-be-built-in-2-yrs/articleshow/79554172.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Nal Stop flyover construction to start soon; viaduct ready||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has completed constructing the Metro viaduct at the busy Nal Stop junction on Karve Road and will soon begin work on the double-decker flyover. The viaduct forms the top tier of the flyover, while vehicular traffic will move on the second tier. Work on the bottom tier will begin nearly two years after the plan was first announced. MahaMetro said it had expected the work on the flyover to begin in September, but it had to be delayed as workers were engaged at other sites. “Additional workers will be deployed at the site for the double-decker flyover over the coming two weeks,” an official said. The flyover is aimed at reducing traffic congestion at the busy junction. MahaMetro will execute the project, while Pune Municipal Corporation will bear the expenses, officials said. MahaMetro has said it has already made allowances for the flyover to “take off and land” on Karve Road and has chalked out plans to ensure minimum obstruction to the traffic. Officials said they would prepare a plan to divert traffic around Nal Stop to facilitate the work. “We have some time before the construction work reaches the junction. We will consult all the stakeholders and prepare a traffic diversion plan,” a MahaMetro official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nal-stop-flyover-construction-to-start-soon-viaduct-ready/articleshow/79554196.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 4, 2020||Pune||PCMC: IIlegal building workup during lockdown||Pimpri Chinchwad: The civic administration has lodged FIRs against over 100 people involved in illegal construction activities in the twin towns. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) building permission and unauthorised construction control department had earlier served notices to individuals involved in illegal construction activities after inspections and site visits by the civic officials. “Despite the notices, the construction work in many cases did not stop. We, therefore, had to file FIRs against over 100 violators,” PCMC’s joint city engineer Makrand Nikam said. Nikam said the number of illegal constructions have mushroomed after lockdown in the civic limits. “Beat officers have been appointed to identify illegal constructons,” Nikam said. Nikam stated that such constructions could also be demolished, however, as per the directives from the Bombay high court, demolition of residential properties is on hold on account of the pandemic. Once these orders are lifted, the demolition process will resume, Nikam further added. “People involved in illegal construction have been booked under relevant sections of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act,” assistant commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad police RR Patil told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-iilegal-building-workup-during-lockdown/articleshow/79554229.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||South Kolkata college professor attacked for feeding strays on road||KOLKATA: A 40-year-old history professor of a reputable south Kolkata college — daughter of a retired Kolkata Police inspector — was allegedly attacked by her neighbour on Wednesday night following an argument over feeding five strays in front of the latter’s house on Jadunath Ukil Road (Ukilpara) in Haridevpur. The accused neighbour, Mona Modak (45) was arrested. The victim, who wished to remain anonymous, sustained a sharp cut injury and was taken to a hospital. “The complainant escaped with a minor injury but the attempt to inflict injury on her with a sharp object is evident. We have registered a hurt case in this regard,” said a police officer. The complainant alleged that her family was being threatened multiple times in the past over feeding strays. Earlier, she had informed local cops about the threat. “There was no mention of feeding dogs in those complaints,” said a police officer. “The accused had attacked the victim all of a sudden. But the victim managed to identify Modak,” the officer said. The kin of the victim claimed that there was some property issue as she was being pressurized to hand over the house for promoting activity. During interrogation Modak denied the promoting angle and insisted that locals objected to the professor’s feeding dogs outside and dirtying the area. Some locals conceded that feeding strays on the road was creating trouble, especially in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/s-kol-college-prof-attacked-for-feeding-strays-on-road/articleshow/79554223.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: AICC backs Ramesh Chennithala, slams vigilance probe||THRISSUR: The Congress national leadership has thrown its weight behind the leader of opposition in Kerala Ramesh Chennithala, against whom the CPM-led LDF government is proceeding with a vigilance enquiry. AICC secretary Tariq Anwar, who is in charge of the party affairs in Kerala, on Thursday attacked the LDF government’s decision to conduct a vigilance probe against Chennithala in the bar bribery case. The allegation against Chennithala is that he received money from a bar contractor when he was the KPCC president for supporting the demand to reduce the licence fee for bars. The vigilance department has received sanction from the assembly speaker to proceed with the inquiry. Addressing mediapersons at DCC office here, the AICC secretary alleged that the government’s move was politically motivated and was intended to tarnish the image of Congress leaders when the local body elections are around the corner. “The LDF government is facing numerous allegations of corruption, and it is now using the government machinery to target the opposition leaders and divert attention,” Anwar said. He said the state government need not be under any delusion that it can avert the impending failure in the local body elections and ensuing assembly elections. The AICC leader also made a scathing attack on the BJP government at the Centre for the alleged inhuman manner in which the farmers’ agitation is being handled. Anwar made it clear that the party supported the demands of the farmers, and demanded that the Centre must respect their views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aicc-backs-chennithala-slams-vigilance-probe/articleshow/79553034.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Sub-inspector booked for cheating, rape||Pune: A police sub-inspector has been booked on the charge of cheating and raping a woman constable. The sub-inspector has been accused of establishing a physical relationship with a 33-year-old woman constable on the promise of marriage. The accused, who is posted with the Nanded police, refused to marry the constable recently. Senior inspector Balasaheb Kopnar of Shivajinagar police station said they registered the case against the sub-inspector on Wednesday after the constable lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sub-inspector-booked-for-cheating-rape/articleshow/79554205.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Child labour: 33 children rescued in Jaipur, 8 FIRs registered||Jaipur: The state’s labour department in coordination with police and several NGOs on Thursday rescued 33 children from child labour in Jaipur. Divisional joint labour commissioner Dharampal Singh informed that 8 FIRs were registered following the rescue operation.“Thirty three children were rescued in several parts of Jaipur on Thursday. One FIR was lodged at Bhatta Basti police station after seven children were rescued in the area. Three FIRs were lodged at Kotwali police station, where 10 children were rescued. Four FIRs were lodged at Shastri Nagar police station against three accused. 16 children were rescued from that area,” Singh told TOI.A meeting to effectively check and control child labour in the state was organised at RSLDC seminar hall on Thursday. The meeting was chaired by Neeraj K. Pawan, secretary, labour and employment. Various departments including child rights, education, child welfare committee and representatives of several NGOs were present in the meeting.The departments were directed to take coordinated and effective action to check and control child labour. Labour commissioner Prateek Jhajharia gave a suggestion to develop a “WhatsApp Group” at district level comprising officials from all departments that are directly responsible for pre-rescue, rescue and post-rescue operations related to child labour.Pawan directed the measure should be implemented on priority basis so that necessary action on child labour complaint could be taken promptly. It was decided to raise the issue related to inward and outward migration of child labour with higher authorities in states like Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/child-labour-33-children-rescued-in-jaipur-8-firs-registered/articleshow/79554201.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||RBI curbs HDFC Bank’s new digital activities over e-outages||Mumbai: In an unprecedented move, the RBI has directed HDFC Bank to stop launches of new digital business activities and not to add new credit card customers following repeated outages in its electronic banking services. The regulator has also ordered the board of the country’s largest private lender to examine the lapses and fix accountability. Incidentally, the development happened on a day when SBI’s mobile banking app Yono too faced downtime. RBI’s action against HDFC Bank is the first time it has sought to penalise a bank by restricting business, rather than imposing a financial penalty, which is often a small amount. This is seen as an indication that RBI has taken serious cognisance of the outage of banking services at HDFC Bank, which accounts for a third of the country’s payments and has been classified as a systemically important bank, one that is “too big to fail”. The directive will impact the bank’s ability to expand the scope of self-service options to customers and put brakes on its credit card expansion. The bank’s new MD and CEO Sashi Jagdishan apologised to customers and said that planned initiatives to improve the front-end digital experience, digital origination, straight-through processing, the next generation of mobile and net banking would now be launched after approval and clearance from the regulator. HDFC Bank informed the stock exchanges on Wednesday that the order from the RBI was issued on December 2, 2020, and was in response to outages in the bank’s internet banking/ mobile banking/ payment utilities over the past two years. The most recent outage took place on November 21, when several customers could not access the digital banking service. The bank blamed this on a power failure in its primary data centre. The bank’s group head of IT and CIO Munish Mittal had put in his papers in July 2020. Last month, the bank had named Ramesh Lakshminarayanan of Crisil as its new CIO. Although HDFC Bank has said that the problem was a one-off issue, customers have been taking to the social media to complain against an issue with server delays with regard to receipt of one-time password and authorisation of transactions. In a statement, HDFC Bank said it has taken several measures to fortify its IT systems and will continue to move swiftly to close out the balance and to engage with the regulator in this regard. “The bank has endeavoured to provide seamless banking services to its customers. The bank has been taking conscious, concrete steps to remedy the recent outages on its digital banking channels and assures its customers that it expects the current supervisory actions will have no impact on its existing credit cards, digital banking channels and existing operations. The bank believes that these measures will not materially impact its overall business,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rbi-curbs-hdfc-banks-new-digital-activities-over-e-outages/articleshow/79556202.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Collectors told to review fire safety at dedicated hosps||Jaipur: All district collectors have been asked to review fire fighting measures in dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the state and to conduct fire prevention drills on regular basis. A health department official said directions have been issued in which district collectors have been asked to review fire fighting measures with local self-governance, civil defence, principal and controller of medical colleges and hospitals attached to them and chief medical health officers. Manish Singhvi, senior advocate and additional advocate general of the state government in Supreme Court, wrote to state chief secretary, “Hon’ble Supreme Court was very anguished with regard to the fire incident which has happened at Rajkot, wherein six Covid patients died due to fire in the hospital.”He further stated that some of private hospitals have been converted into Covid hospitals. A lot of oxygen cylinders are required in such hospitals. Standard operating procedures (SOP) must be drafted for such hospitals in consultation with the fire department. Once the SOPs are in place, they must be adhered to and its enforcement must be ensured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collectors-told-to-review-fire-safety-at-dedicated-hosps/articleshow/79554283.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops start fining cyclists on three thoroughfares||KOLKATA: Hours after police decided not to extend the relaxed bicycle policy after almost six months, a few traffic guards began challaning cyclists using roads where bicycles are banned. Police sources said that individual guards were “forced to act” and fine cyclists Rs 100 for deviating from set roads and using some central Kolkata business district thoroughfares, like Park Street and Camac Street, in the past few days to cut short their travelling time. A similar drive was held on EM Bypass. “We have often stopped cyclists on these roads and counselled them. But we had marked out the serial violators against whom we finally acted in the past 48 hours,” said a senior officer from the south traffic guard. “We had earmarked the routes available for cyclists going towards Sector V from Park Circus multiple times. But there were a few violators who insisted on taking Bypass. Not only is it a security hazard, but it is also a major threat to motorists. We had to send a signal,” said an officer, adding that unlike previous occasions, no cycles were seized in the process. The police action is limited to a few specific guards “where the problem is acute”. “We have got no clear orders from Lalbazar. We have merely been asked to ensure no one is obstructing the flow of traffic or creating a safety issue,” explained an officer. Meanwhile, Lalbazar has stated it will not extend the relaxations offered to cyclists since the “demand for it, as well as the ground situation, is far removed from the past few months” after the resumption of Metro and local trains. “If the demand has decreased, there is little point in keeping it running for a few,” said an officer. “With Majerhat bridge being restored, a big section of suburban cyclists will be going back to using buses to commute within south Kolkata,” another officer said. “We are not going to extend the notification,” said DC (Traffic) Rupesh Kumar. Talking to TOI, top officers insisted that most cyclists who have stopped using the two-wheelers hail from Howrah, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas rather than the city proper. “With train services normalizing, and Metro services peaking, we had to withdraw the relaxation. Given that winter is around — usually the time when maximum accidents get recorded — we thought this was the time to have a rethink,” said an officer. “Many people are being forced to use cycles and we must give them time to adapt to the rules. For now, we want to promote good cycling practices and want to reward those who follow the rules. During each counselling session on the roads, we ask them to wear fluorescent clothes and helmets. The new-age cyclists are following these basic rules and can act as examples,” said a Lalbazar officer. The cops have decided on a few provisions under which cyclists can be penalized. “Since Motor Vehicles Act will not be applicable, we will use the Kolkata Police Act, under which cycles of errant riders might be confiscated,” an officer said. Police also said vans and carts would not be included in the “relaxations” provided to cyclists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-start-fining-cyclists-on-three-thoroughfares/articleshow/79554306.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid not worse in HIV patients: Doctors||NAGPUR: Doctors treating HIV positive patients have observed that the impact of Covid-19 on them is same as on non-HIV persons. Earlier there were apprehensions that that those infected with HIV may fare worse under Covid and get severe symptoms. It has been found HIV positive individuals are equally safe or prone to Covid-19 as others if they have been taking proper medication and their CD-4 count is at adequate levels, medical practitioners said. The doctors also clarified that these are just observations during course of treatment and no research has been carried out yet. Dr Megha Navade, who treats HIV patients, said earlier there was an obvious concern that due to suppressed immunity of the HIV positive patients, they may be highly susceptible to Covid and related complications. The topic of HIV worsening Covid cases has not been raised in any of the forums, she said. “The patient needs to keep their CD-4 count up to 500 or more and continue proper medication so that the viral load of HIV is suppressed. In that case, the susceptibility of a HIV positive person to Covid is like any other person, said Dr Milind Bhrushundi, the governing council member of AIDS Society of India and a private practioner for HIV patients. He said there was an increase in the number of HIV patients getting Covid after June but that was linked with opening of the lockdown which led to mixing of people. “Almost 60% of my patients only needed home isolation. This indicates the Covid impact on the HIV positive persons is nothing different,” he said. In the initial months of pandemic there was a theory that the anti-retroviral drugs HIV patients were already taking may act on coronavirus too. However, this too is not proving to be true, a senior doctor in the Government Medical College (GMCH) said. The two retroviral drugs lopanivir/ritonavir and hydroxychloroquine have been removed from Covid trials by the World Health Organsiation (WHO). The doctor also said there has been no exceptional spurt of HIV patients getting Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-not-worse-in-hiv-patients-docs/articleshow/79552957.cms||Shishir Arya
December 4, 2020||Ludhiana||For taking part in nat’l challenge, MC to ban manual cleaning of sewers||Ludhiana: It seems to be a tough challenge for the municipal corporation officials to take part in the national-level Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge as they will have to put in place a complete ban on the manual cleaning of sewerage lines in the city. And in case sewermen are required to enter the sewerage manholes for clearing the choking, they will have to take prior permission from the sanitation response unit. Also, adequate safety kits and machinery will be required for sailing through this competition. For residents’ empowerment, the civic body will also have to establish a 24x7 control room, where complaints regarding sewermen cleaning sewerage manholes can be registered. For the cities which will participate in the challenge, these will have to set up a responsible sanitation authority and a response unit to take care of emergency situations of blockages of sewers and septic tanks and thereby preventing manual hazardous cleaning. This should work on the lines of fire brigade and response should be immediate. A valid ODF+ certification and notification of ban on single use plastic should also be there. In the MC, there are 1,056 permanent and 625 contractual sewermen. As of now, the civic officials have two safety kits in each sub-zone and there are 16 sub-zones in the city. However, the officials claimed that these safety kits were sufficient because at a time not more than two location supervisor could check cleaning of the sewer system. However, in the city many instances have taken place, where sewermen either died or fell unconscious while cleaning the sewerage manholes and most of the time it was seen that sewermen did not wear the safety kits. The superintending engineer of operation and maintenance cell, Rajinder Singh, said, “We are yet to go through the instructions and details of the challenge and after going through these we will prepare the detailed report on how many machines or safety kits are required.” He said they would also set up a quick response team of officials shortly.  Executive engineer of operation and maintenance cell Pardeep Saluja said that they had applied for the 24x7 helpline number and by next week they were expecting to start this service for the public. He said once this helpline would be launched, then residents could complaint over this number. Meanwhile, the the challenge the first prize in the above 10 lakh population category is Rs 12 crore, second prize is Rs 6 crore and third prize is Rs 3 crore. The challenge will carry total 1,000 marks, out of which 700 marks will be given for core parameters like resident’s empowerment, mechanised cleaning, workforce, machines and soft measures while 300 marks will be for eco-system parameters. Some past incidents * Aug 7, 2020: A sewer man fell unconscious while cleaning choked sewerage in EWS colony * Apr 11, 2019: A regular MC sewer man fell unconscious inside a manhole in Shimlapuri while trying to clean a choked sewerage * Sept 9, 2018: A contractual sewer man fell unconscious after he inhaled a dangerous gas emanating from a choked sewerage in New Subhash Nagar * Aug 10, 2018: A contractual sewer man received burns when he entered a choked sewerage line in Guru Nanak Nagar and boiling water was spilled in the sewerage line * March 13, 2018: A private sanitation employee died due to asphyxiation while cleaning a choked sewerage on Daba road * Dec 2017: Two private labourers died of asphyxiation while cleaning a sewerage of a hotel on Dugri road while three were admitted in hospital in serious condition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/for-taking-part-in-natl-challenge-mc-to-ban-manual-cleaning-of-sewers/articleshow/79552945.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ludhiana||ATPs claim extreme political pressure stopping them from taking action||Ludhiana: In a surprising way, the building branch officials have admitted to the fact that they work under extreme political pressure due to which they are unable to take action against illegal construction works. The assistant planners (ATPs) of all four zones have admitted that councillors and other elected representatives in their areas interfere if they tried to contact those people who had electricity connections even though in MC records no building plan had been approved for the property. This report was submitted by ATPs to the municipal town planner for submitting the same to additional commissioner Rishipal Singh. This inquiry was started after a complaint made by RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal that more electricity connections were issued as compared to building plans in the city. Following this, additional commissioner Rishipal Singh had taken record of past three years from the powercom department that 86,000 connections had been issued. The building branch officials were supposed to match these connections with MC building plan records. Earlier, in a combined report they had submitted that around 15,000 to 16,000 buildings were not issued challans. Now, in a detailed report, that too obtained under the RTI Act, all ATPs have submitted almost similar reports. In zone A report, it is mentioned clearly that out of 86,000 connections, 18,923 fall in zone A, but for almost 17,000 buildings they did not get proper addresses. And moreover 60-65% buildings are outside MC limits and in the past three years 3,000 challans had been issued and buildings regularised. Interestingly, in zone A, there are 21 councillors and other elected representatives who do not let them take action against illegal residential constructions, they claimed. So, 10-12% buildings must be there in areas under zone A, where they could not issue challans but action was taken against commercial and industrial constructions. In zone B, out of 86,000 new connections, 17,000 were in areas under this zone, but 25-30% of the buildings are outside MC limits. Against 2,500 illegal buildings challans were issued in three years and those were regularised under the policy. There are 13 ruling party councillors and also opposition party leaders who do not allow them to touch the residential structures. So, in a way 10-12% of the structures must be there against whom either challans were not issued. However in zone C, out of 86,000 connections, 15,000 were issued, but 6,000 buildings were without proper address. As many as 60-65% buildings are out of MC limits. There are 17 councillors as well as other representatives as well, so they remain under political pressure, making it difficult to issue challans against 10-12% residential buildings. Similarly, in zone D, out of 86,000 connections, 22,500 buildings were issued the connections and out of that 13,500 buildings did not have proper address. They regularised 9,000 buildings after issuing the challans. The ATPs also suggested that when the powercom department issued any connection then NOC from the MC should be made compulsory, only then connection should be issued. The activist said, “The language used in the report for all the zones is almost similar, which raises a question whether officials stepped in field to actually verify the number of illegal buildings or just prepare a table report.” He said if there was extreme political pressure on the officials, then they should have complained about it as due to this pressure the MC should not face financial losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/atps-claim-extreme-political-pressure-stopping-them-from-taking-action/articleshow/79552930.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Agra||Smart City: Electric bus workshopto be developed in Foundry Nagar||Agra: The state government under the Agra Smart City project has approved a plan to develop an electric bus workshop and charging centre on a 16,000 square meters premises at Foundry Nagar here. Besides, the process of buying 100 battery-operated buses — to be operated by the Agra-Mathura City Transport Service Limited — has been initiated. According to city transport service officials, the land acquisition process will be started in January. Managing director of Agra-Mathura city transport service RBL Sharma said, “The plan to develop a modern electric bus workshop and charging centre at Foundry Nagar on Hathras road has been approved by the state government. The 16,000 square metres premises on which the workshop will be developed belongs to the Agra Development Authority. The land registration process will be completed this month.” “100 electric buses are proposed to be operated in Agra and Mathura cities. At present, 170 CNG buses are operating in Agra and 60 diesel buses operate in Mathura. A majority of these buses are several years old and needs to be replaced. The government has decided to replace the old CNG and diesel buses with modern electricity buses. The process to buy these buses has been initiated,” he said. The government has planned to operate 580 electric buses on a contract basis in nine major cities, out of these 100 buses will be operated in two cities under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ). Besides Agra and Mathura, other cities where electric buses will be operated include Kanpur, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Saharanpur. The urban transport directorate has planned to start operation of at least 10 buses in each city within the next three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/smart-city-electric-bus-workshopto-be-developed-in-foundry-nagar/articleshow/79552929.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Micro containment zones in areas having over five cases||Jaipur: A joint team of health, police, JMC and district administration will visit houses of all the daily new infected persons in the city for intense contact tracing, bounding the infected person to remain inside the house while following home isolation guidelines. Moreover, micro containment zones will be created in the areas which report five or more positive cases. “The micro containment zones will be created in the city from tomorrow and the joint teams of health, police, JMC and district administration will visit houses of each and every person who has tested positive from tomorrow. Containment zones will not be created everywhere,” said Dr Narrrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). The health department has started sharing the list of infected persons with the Jaipur police commissionerate from Wednesday. Health secretary Siddhartha Mahajan issued guidelines on surveillance, contact tracing, testing and treatment in containment zones. Health department’s guidelines mentioned that the health department should conduct door-to-door survey for active surveillance.While conducting door-to-door survey, sampling should be done as per the protocol laid down for suspected Covid persons with special focus on patients with influenza-like illness (ILI).The focus of the state government is now more on contact tracing for early detection and early treatment of Covid. The health department will monitor health of all those who came in contact with the infected person in the past 14 days from the day he was tested positive. A senior health department official said that people should take precaution if the person with whom they met tested positive in the past 14 days as they might also have contracted the virus. Cong MLA suffers cardiac arrestCongress MLA from Shrimadhopur, Deependra Singh Shekhawat suffered cardiac arrest on Thursday. He was rushed to a city hospital where doctors admitted him. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed his wishes for Shekhawat’s recovery. “Concerned about the health of Congress MLA, Deependra Singh Shekhawat ji, who has been admitted in hospital due to a cardiac arrest. Wish him speedy recovery. May he gets well soon. #Rajasthan,” Gehlot tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/micro-containment-zones-in-areas-having-over-five-cases/articleshow/79554237.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||MSEDCL floats instalment scheme for consumers to clear power dues||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has offered an instalment scheme to high- and low-tension domestic, commercial and industrial consumers to help them clear their pending and current electricity bills.A statement issued by the distribution firm on Thursday said the scheme would also offer to reinstate the power supply of defaulters. Consumers who have filed court cases regarding electricity bills can also avail the instalment scheme, provided they agree to withdraw the cases unconditionally.The consumers whose power supply has not been disconnected will be allowed to clear the arrears in three instalments without making any down payment. Those whose supply has been disconnected will have to make 30% down payment and will be allowed to clear the arrears in 12 instalments. They will also have to submit an application for reconnection and pay the required reconnection charges, the statement said.Consumers with sanctioned load of more than 20kWh can submit an application at the divisional office, while those having less than 20kWh load can approach the sub-divisional office and high-tension consumers can approach the circle offices. They will have to pay only 2% of the arrears, while applying for the instalment scheme. The offices will take a decision on the applications within seven days. If there is a court case, it will take 15 days.The MSEDCL website will also have a separate portal to enable consumers to apply online for the instalment scheme.THose willing to avail of the instalment scheme will have to submit an affidavit on s Rs 200 stamp paper, stating that they are participating in the scheme unconditionally. The scheme is applicable for 2020-21 fiscal only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-floats-instalment-scheme-for-consumers-to-clear-power-dues/articleshow/79554252.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Agra||Youth comes to UP court to marry girl from another faith, thrashed||AGRA: A Muslim youth, 21, was allegedly abused and beaten inside the court premises in Aligarh where he had come with a girl, also 21, to get legally married on Thursday. In a set of videos shared on social media platforms, the youth was purportedly seen forcibly taken away by a bunch of policemen in an e-rickshaw. In the other video, the girl was also seen taken away by women constables as she continued to shout that she was not a minor and wanted to live with the youth. Local police refused to divulge the details about the reason for their detention. The girl, who is from another faith, had come from Chandigarh for the marriage. While the youth, Sonu Malik, is a local. Malik works in Haryana’s Ambala district, where he is said to have met the girl. They were taken to Aligarh’s Civil Line police station. But, by Thursday night, no FIR was registered. When contacted, circle officer (CO) Anil Samaniya told TOI, “The matter is being inquired in detail.” The incident comes against the backdrop of row surrounding the UP’s new anti-conversion law. State police have so far booked three persons of the minority community for trying to lure and convert women of the other faith. In a similar turn of events in Lucknow, city police stopped an interfaith wedding just before the marriage was to be solemnized. They claimed that it involved religious conversion for which due procedure as per the new ordinance had not been followed. Police came to know about the wedding ceremony through the Hindu Mahasabha. No FIR was lodged as both the families told police that they would seek clearance from the DM before going ahead with the wedding rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-21-comes-to-up-court-to-marry-a-girl-from-another-faith-thrashed-taken-to-thana/articleshow/79552943.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur’s death count breaches 100-mark||Jaipur: Udaipur became the seventh district of the state breaching 100-mark with two more deaths on Thursday. The other six districts with highest number of deaths are Jaipur (445), Jodhpur (246), Ajmer (192), Bikaner (163), Kota (141) and Bharatpur (108). In the past 10 days, the state has witnessed a spurt reporting 189 deaths accounting for 8% of the total deaths since the first fatality in April. In the past 10 days, Udaipur reported 16 deaths with a case fatality rate of 1.4%. The highest case fatality rate in the state was reported from Ajmer at 1.5%. Besides, Jaipur reported 29 deaths, which is highest in the state, followed by Ajmer (27), Jodhpur (26), Kota (16), Udaipur (16), Bharatpur (7) and Bikaner (5).A senior health department official said that the case fatality rate in the state is less than 1%. “We have taken a series of measures to bring down the mortality rate in the state due to Covid, including expansion of healthcare facilities,” said the official. Twenty people died in the state, while 2,086 others tested positive on Thursday, bringing its overall tally to 2,74,486. With 20 deaths, state’s toll rose to 2370. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (590), Jodhpur (201), Kota (149), Ajmer (112), Alwar (101), Udaipur (99), Nagaur (83), Bhilwara (81), Bharatpur (61), Pali (52), Chittorgarh (50), Dungarpur (48), Barmer (47), Bikaner (44), Jalore (35), Jhunjhunu (32), Rajsamand (31), Sikar (30), Sirohi (30), Tonk (30), Sriganaganagar (29), Bundi (25), Baran (24), Hanumangarh (23), Dausa (21), Banswara (16), Jaisalmer (11), Dholpur (10), Churu (8), Sawai Madhopur (7), Jhalawar (4), Karauli (1) and Pratapgarh (1). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 445, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 246, two deaths reported in Kota taking its toll to 141, Ajmer reported two casualties taking its toll to 192, two persons died in Dausa taking its toll to 19, with two deaths Udaipur’s fatalities rose to 100, Bharatpur 108th, Bikaner 163rd, Sikar 81st, Nagaur 78th, Jhunjhunu 40th and Jhalawar reported its 18th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipurs-death-count-breaches-100-mark/articleshow/79554298.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||New Town citizens, cops help injured pony get back on feet||KOLKATA: A 10-day-old pony — severely bleeding from the legs and visibly in pain — was rescued by a group of Good Samaritans and policemen in New Town on Thursday morning. It was spotted around 8.30am. By the end of the afternoon, with the aid of doctors and the Good Samaritans, the animal was able to stand on its feet and graze alongside three other abandoned horses that have recently strayed into New Town. According to police, the pony was probably hit by a speeding vehicle near a major retail store close to Axis mall. “I was driving down the road with my daughter when I saw the horse lying on the roadside. I informed a few locals and left. While coming back sometime later, I saw the horse still lying there and pulled over. I saw it was severely injured. I immediately called up the deputy commissioner of New Town division and alerted an animal welfare team in New Town,” said Ankur Roy Choudhury, a resident of New Town and a member of the NGO New Town Forum and News (NTFN) that came to the rescue of the animal. Locals and cops treat the injured pony on ThursdayThe senior officer alerted the local police station and help arrived within minutes. “I asked the officers to do everything required to help the animal. It was the local officers’ timely intervention with help from the residents and NKDA authorities that helped save the animal,” said Bishop Sarkar, deputy commissioner (New Town). Doctors treating the animal said it had suffered a severe wound and extended tissue damage and would need regular dressing and medical care for a few days. A local resident, Akanksha Pandey, has taken up the responsibility of follow -up medical care. “There is a deep cut and a portion of its skin has been torn, injuring the muscles and tissues underneath. We have stitched the wound and have applied some medicine, but it needs regular dressing and medicines which some locals have agreed to administer. Thankfully, the pony was rescued before too much blood loss,” said Debasis Dey, the veterinary doctor with New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) who treated the pony. According to locals, three horses had recently strayed into New Town and have been roaming the streets. Sources said the pony was born to one of these horses barely ten days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citizens-cops-help-injured-pony-get-back-on-feet/articleshow/79554325.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 4, 2020||Ludhiana||Truckers' call for strike in support of farmers worries bizmen||Ludhiana: The announcement by the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on Wednesday to observe a nationwide ‘chakka jam’ from December 8 if the demands of the agitating farmers are not accepted by the central government has left the city businessmen worried. The businessmen on Thursday appealed to the transporters to withdraw their decision as the daily movement of goods and raw materials worth Rs 500 crore to Rs 1,000 crore would be hampered, bringing the trade and industry to a grinding halt. They said they have still not been able to recover the huge losses incurred recently due to the cancellation of trains to and from Punjab. Narinder Bhamra, president of the Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, said every day goods and raw materials between Rs 500 crore and Rs 1,000 crore move into and out of Ludhiana via road transport alone. “If the transporters go ahead with their proposed chakka jam, not just the industry but the trade will also be totally crippled. In the last two months, the businesses have already losses worth crores every single day due to the stoppage of trains. It is our humble request to the transporters that in view of the current plight of the business community, they should defer their chakka jam call, as we will not be able to absorb this jolt,” Bhamra said. Echoing his sentiments, member of the National Board for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Gurpreet Singh Kahlon said, “If transporters go on strike for even one day, the industrial activities will come to a complete halt, as finished goods will start piling up at our factories and raw materials will not be able to reach us for further production. Transporters must take a compassionate view of the problems being faced by us this year and cancel their proposed agitation, as the lockdown and subsequent halting of train services have already caused huge losses to us.” On the other hand, AIMTC chairman Charan Singh Lohara, said, “Farm sector is the backbone of India and more than 70% of the rural households depend on agriculture for their livelihood. It is unwise on the part of the Centre to ignore the concerns and demands of such a crucial sector and turn a blind eye to the plight of our hardworking farmers. The government also faltered in treating the farmers with dignity by using harsh measures like spraying water on them during their peaceful protest.” Lohara further said, “We are pained over these developments and want to tell our farmer brothers that we stand with them. Expressing solidarity with them, we are giving ultimatum to the central government to accept the demands of protesting farmers by December 7. If this does not happen, we will start a nationwide chakka jam from December 8 and not even a single truck will move until the farmers get justice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truckers-call-for-strike-in-support-of-farmers-worries-bizmen/articleshow/79552955.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Covid halts rail passengers’ travel plans||Jaipur: It appears that the increased cases of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, Delhi and other parts of the country have made rail passengers jittery and apprehensive.This is the reason why a majority of the trains run by North Western Railway (NWR) have many berths available. Poor passenger load has now led NWR to cancel three of its major trains, including the double decker connecting Jaipur to Delhi and two others. The most popular train between Jaipur and Delhi would remain cancelled from December 8 onwards.NWR authorities on Thursday announced that the double decker between Jaipur and Delhi would be cancelled from December 8 onwards. The train has largely been used by youngsters working in multi-national companies in Gurugram and Delhi. “Since most of them are into work from home, they are no longer using the train. During pre-Covid times, this train used to get rush from Gurugram to Jaipur every Saturday and on every Monday the rush used to take the train to return to Gurugram. However, that is actually not happening during Covid times,” said a senior officer of commercial wing of NWR.“The trains including Ajmer-Jammu Tawi via Jaipur and Jaipur-Amritsar were already cancelled. The reason is not yet known to us,” said a senior officer of NWR.According to the authorities, the trains including Jaipur-Mumbai superfast, Aashram Express and others are showing many berths available for those planning their journey in the next couple of days.“Till October, many of our trains had attained 100% occupancy and were showing no room vacant. But the way Covid cases increased in Rajasthan and other parts of the country, it has certainly scared the rail travellers. I know many who preferred their personal vehicles to attend weddings in various cities while travelling out from Jaipur,” said Gurmeet Singh, a Jaipur-based travel agent.Senior authorities of the NWR stated that for shorter distances like Delhi, people prefer their own vehicles. “Our long distance trains like Jaipur-Mumbai superfast are running packed,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-halts-rail-passengers-travel-plans/articleshow/79554302.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Agra||Ex MP, MLA booked for violating prohibitory orders||AGRA: Aligarh police on Thursday have booked over 150 people including former MP Vijendra Singh and former MLA Zamirullah Khan for violating prohibitory orders and not following Covid norms. Circle officer Anil Samaniya said that the political leaders took out a procession violating prohibitory orders and Covid guidelines. The FIR has been registered against 30 identified persons and 125 unidentified ones under relevant sections of IPC at Kawarsi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ex-mp-mla-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders/articleshow/79552951.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Grad polls: Wanjari leads by over 9,000 votes after third round||Nagpur: Abhijit Wanjari of Congress was leading by over 9,000 votes after three rounds over Sandip Joshi of BJP in the Nagpur division graduate’s constituency election. Two more rounds remained at the filing of the report. Result was expected to be declared late in night. BJP refused to concede after three rounds. “Let all the rounds be completed. We will make the difference in one round and then we will establish a lead,” said former BJP MLC Anil Sole. Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said that Wanjari’s lead would go on increasing. “BJP is losing everywhere in the state. It is a failure of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis,” he added. In the first round, Wanjari polled 12,617 votes against 7,767 polled by Joshi thus establishing a lead of 4,850 votes. In the second round the Congress leader polled 11,497 votes against 9,085 garnered by Joshi thus increasing his lead to 7,262 votes. At the end of third round, Wanjari had polled total 35,509 votes against 25,898 polled by Joshi. The fight seems to be a straight one with Independent candidate Atul Khobragade a poor third with 5,757 votes. Nitesh Karale was fourth with 4,314 votes. Congress sources said that OBCs, Muslims and Dalits had mostly voted for Wanjari due to which he was comfortably ahead. “Every time the polling percentage in Nagpur division graduate constituency election was poor because our voters did not take the election seriously. This time they did and the polling percentage was over a record 64%. In 2014, when Sole had defeated Baban Taywade of Congress, the voting percentage was only 37%,” said a Congress leader. Earlier Jansangh and its offshoot BJP have been winning this seat for the last 58 years consistently. Gangadharrao, father of Devendra Fadnavis, had won from this constituency many times. After his death, Union minister Nitin Gadkari won from this seat five times. After Gadkari switched over to Lok Sabha, Sole won from this seat. If Joshi loses it will be a big setback to both Fadnavis and Gadkari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/grad-polls-wanjari-leads-by-over-9000-votes-after-third-round/articleshow/79554316.cms||Ashish Roy
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Pills for West Bengal cracker industry survival: Invest in R&D, shift to green products||KOLKATA: If the fireworks industry in Bengal has to survive, it needs to invest in research and development. It must shift from age-old methods of making crude fireworks to making new-age, sophisticated green fireworks, a key functionary of the association for fireworks development in the state said after the National Green Tribunal’s latest order extended the ban on sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in and around polluting cities like Kolkata and Howrah. Speaking to TOI, Sara Bangla Atosbaji Unnayan Samity president Babla Roy said the NGT’s decision to extend the embargo on crackers from November-end till the end of the Covid pandemic had slammed shut any chance of a quick revival. “The industry has been facing hurdles in Bengal for 25 years now, battling restrictions to somehow survive. But Covid and the complete ban that was announced this festive season has left the industry battered and bruised. There is a realization that we cannot continue like this. If the industry is to survive, it has to turn over a new leaf. We have to become like Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu where constant R&D has led to rapid strides in development of green crackers that can survive this onslaught from green activists,” said Roy, adding that each unit has to set up a laboratory to design, make and test green firecrackers. TimesViewIt will be difficult for the industry, which will have to deal with an unsold inventory, but the order is just a continuation of what we have gone through this festival season. The NGT directive is a response to the unusual times we are living in.Only 15% of crackers manufactured in Bengal are currently low-emission ones that can claim to be green as they don’t contain banned chemicals, such as lithium, arsenic, barium and lead. They are also supposed to release water vapour to smother dust particles, thereby keeping particulate matter pollution in check. According to estimates, the industry will require at least 10 years to make the transition. Work on the two fireworks clusters announced by the government has been slow with some civil work completed after soil tests at Champahati while work is yet to begin on the plot near Maheshtala. While the thrust was on safety and security of workers in the new clusters, the association now plans to add R&D in a big way. Burrabazar Fireworks Dealers’ Association joint secretary Shantanu Dutta said Bengal will be impacted the most by the NGT order as the fireworks manufactured here don’t have the long shelf-life that those manufactured in Sivakasi do. “Of the 1.2 crore workers in the industry, Bengal accounts for 31 lakh. Those who manufacture firecrackers will be hit the hardest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pills-for-bengal-cracker-industry-survival-invest-in-rd-shift-to-green-products/articleshow/79554359.cms||Subhro Niyogi
December 4, 2020||Agra||Moderate fog in Agra region in next five days: Met office||AGRA: A fog hung over Agra region on Thursday morning till it was gently dispersed by cold winds blowing at a speed of 12 km per hour. But the chill remained the whole day. Agra city recorded a maximum temperature of 27.8 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature dropped to 10.9 degrees Celsius by 7 pm. Neighbouring districts of Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri were also cooled by chilly winds. In comparison to Agra, Aligarh was colder with a minimum temperature of 8.6 degrees Celsius, which was one degree less as than normal. According to the metrological department, Agra region is likely to witness moderate fog in the morning and evening for the next five days. Mercury level is likely to dip by 2 degrees on both minimum and maximum scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/moderate-fog-in-agra-region-in-next-five-days-met-office/articleshow/79552966.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Trichy||Now, robbers target shallot stocks, give farmers sleepless nights in Perambalur||Perambalur: Apart from the twister disease that has impacted productivity of shallots in Perambalur district, farmers are now worried as there has been a series of burglaries targeting shallots stocked for cultivation. Farms and even houses in the region have been the target of burglars in the last two weeks.Since November 21, four burglaries have been reported under Padalur police station limits, in which 1,180kg of shallots were reported stolen. Sources said that there are a few farmers who lost their produce but have not reported. The shallots are usually stored in a thatched hut on their agriculture land for the next cycle of cultivation, with an acre requiring around 700kg of shallots as seeds. Shallots from farmlands in Nattarmangalam and Settikulam have been stolen so far, but on Thursday the produce kept in front of a house was stolen. As it is selling for Rs 60-80 per kg, farmers said that antisocial elements constantly target their stock. “Farmers are camping on the farm as a group to prevent theft. Even cars were reportedly used. The rise in price of shallots is making thieves target our inventory,” said S Ranganathan, a farmer from Nattarmangalam who lost 180kg. By destroying the thatched huts, the sacks of shallots were stolen. Usage of mini-load vans was also suspected as the burglars target those situated on the main roads. “We have increased night surveillance and also sensitised farmers to move the shallots to a safer place, but it is very challenging to recover the stolen products as it is perishable and easily sold in the normal vegetable market,” a police officer in Perambalur district said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/now-robbers-target-shallot-stocks-give-farmers-sleepless-nights-in-perambalur/articleshow/79555688.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 4, 2020||Trichy||BDU interviews 33 faculty members for CAS promotion||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) interviewed 33 faculty members for promotion under career advancement scheme (CAS) on Thursday. The faculty members are expected to be promoted after the list is approved by the syndicate. BDU received 73 applications in March this year for promotion of teaching faculty under CAS from assistant professors, associate professors and professors. The selection process got delayed due to the lockdown and applications were scrutinised by the end of September. A committee headed by BDU former controller of examination S Sridharan scrutinised the applications. Originally only 31 applications were shortlisted, but two more assistant professors were added later. The list includes 18 assistant professors to be promoted as associate professors, eight associate professors for professorship and seven faculty members from constituent colleges. Annamalai University vice-chancellor P Murugesan was the government nominee in the selection committee. Each selection committee under each discipline had two subject experts - a government nominee, a SC/ST nominee besides head of respective department and the vice-chancellor. Asked on the reason for not getting approval of the syndicate for the scrutinised list of candidates, CAS coordinator S Rajasekar, dean of science, said that UGC guidelines were followed for the promotions and syndicate approval will be obtained after completion of the process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-interviews-33-faculty-members-for-cas-promotion/articleshow/79555690.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Incoming blocked, essentials a worry||NEW DELHI: With Delhi’s borders getting choked one after the other, the ongoing protest by farmers has started affecting the supply of essential commodities, including vegetables, fruits, grains, milk, edible oil, fuel, etc. While the situation is still manageable as of now, the capital could be looking at a crisis if the stalemate continues for another week. “The arrival of fruits and vegetables has dipped by more than 50% since the protests began,” said Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman of Azadpur Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). He added that while 12,000-13,000 metric tonnes of fruits and vegetables used to arrive at the mandi daily, the volume had reduced to 6,000-7,000 tonnes now. Khan explained, “Delhi is the biggest distribution centre for north India. Apples, for instance, come from the northern states and are distributed further, while fruits and vegetables, like banana and onion, arrive from southern and western states. These are then sent to Punjab, Haryana and other northern states.” “Despite the dip in supply, there is still enough for Delhi’s requirements at the moment. However, the way the protest is spreading, a problem will ensue if no solution is found soon. Singhu is the main border from where supplies come to Azadpur. But now other borders are also witnessing problems, which is likely to affect the supplies coming from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan,” Khan said. The supply of other essential items is under strain too. “We are facing some difficulty at the entry points to Delhi, but we are taking all requisite measures to manage milk supply in the region. Additionally, we are monitoring the evolving situation and will act accordingly,” said a spokesperson of Mother Dairy, a leading milk supplier. The protest at the borders is also affecting the supply of foodgrains at other mandis, apart from edible oil, said sources. With All India Motor Transport Congress, an apex body of transporters, calling for a halt in movement of trucks in north India from December 8, the situation is expected to worsen. “If the agitation continues for long, with both the government and farmers being adamant, fruits and vegetables to some extent shall become costlier in Delhi-NCR and cheaper in other APMCs,” said SP Singh of Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training, an independent research body that tracks the road transport industry. Ajay Bansal, president of All-India Petroleum Dealers’ Association, said, “It is becoming difficult to bring fuel from depots in areas like Rohtak, but the lack of vehicle movement has also meant a dip in sales for fuel filling stations.” “Sales have gone down by 60%, but there’s not much requirement of stock due to low vehicle movement. While fewer trucks have resulted in a dip in diesel sales, even petrol is not being sold much. Moreover, 50 outlets in Delhi and 100 in the NCR located near the borders are shut because of the protests,” added Bansal. Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry, said the city had witnessed a loss of Rs 350 crore as trade had gone down by 80%. “No customers from other states are coming to Delhi,” he added. “Manufacturing has stopped because raw materials from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are unable to reach Delhi as trucks are stuck on the way. At this time, a huge quantity of woollens are brought to Delhi. Moreover, perishable goods are at the risk of getting damaged after being stuck on the road for long,” said Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/incoming-blocked-essentials-a-worry/articleshow/79555664.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 4, 2020||Trichy||Trichy MSMEs in trouble as steel price rises 20%||Trichy: The unprecedented surge in steel cost by 20% is feared to make several MSMEs in Trichy sick and force them to end their operations. Steel makes about 90% of the raw materials procured by the MSMEs serving as ancillary units of Bhel. Even as fresh work orders for micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) into engineering sector have declined post the economic slowdown and pandemic, a sharp surge in steel prices in recent months has put the sector in distress. For the past six years, the output of finished goods by Trichy-based MSMEs that have special expertise in fabrication and engineering has come down from 3.50 lakh tonnes to 1.50 lakh tonnes owing to the policy changes and subsequent fall in orders. While MSMEs were managing to stay afloat with the paltry orders they fetch from Bhel Trichy, the constant surge in prices of steel has come as dismay. From selling Rs 38,000 per tonne, steel price has skyrocketed to Rs 44,000 - 46,000 per tonne within the past two months, MSMEs lamented. While the heavy demand for steel in the international market has made private steel companies to increase the steel prices, MSMEs said the even the state-run SAIL is following the suit.“We have stopped procuring steel hoping that the union government will take a positive decision to favour struggling MSMEs,” V Kannan, district president, economic cell, BJP said.While bidding to avail orders from Bhel, the project cost was calculated based on the steel price prevailed while signing the contract. The recent steep surge in the price of steel has destabilised the MSMEs in Trichy, which is considered as fabrication and engineering hub in producing thermal power plant components“Usually the steel price will be increased by Rs 500 per tonne but now the price is increased by a minimum of Rs 5,000 per tonne. If such a trend continues, more MSMEs will close and there will be a job loss,” said, Rajappa Rajkumar, president, BHEL Small Scale Industries Association (Bhelsia).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-msmes-in-trouble-as-steel-price-rises-20/articleshow/79555674.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 4, 2020||Trichy||Girl, 7, dies as soaked wall collapses in Perambalur||Trichy: A seven-year-old girl died in a wall collapse in Pasumpalur village in Perambalur district on Thursday morning. Sources said that a couple identified as Venkatesh and Thirusadai were living in a rented house in Pasumpalur village belonging to Ramasamy. As Venkatesh is working in a private company in Chennai, his wife and their three children Yojana, 7, Keerthika, 5, and Ramu, 2 were residing in the rented house. As heavy rain battered Pasumpalur hamlet since Wednesday night, a portion of the house collapsed on Thursday. A wall fell over Yojana and she died on the spot. The remaining occupants of the house escaped unhurt. V Kalathur police are investigating the incident. In an unrelated incident near Kizhapaluvur in Ariyalur district, a 60-year-old woman was electrocuted after she stepped on a live wire. The live wire had fallen outside the house of Sivapakiyam in Arungal village. Kizhapaluvur police are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/girl-7-dies-as-soaked-wall-collapses-in-perambalur/articleshow/79555680.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Sharad Pawar casts doubts on Rahul Gandhi's consistency||MUMBAI: Celebrations to mark the first anniversary of the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra hit a note of controversy with NCP president Sharad Pawar, who is also the architect of the coalition, making critical observations on the leadership of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Pawar, who was interviewed by Lokmat group editor Vijay Darda, was responding to a question on whether the country was ready to be led by Rahul Gandhi. Pawar observed that there were questions on the issue. “There appears to be lack of consistency, it will have to be seen if there is acceptance within the party organization,’’ he said. Pawar, however, added that the rank and file of the Congress still has faith in the Nehru-Gandhi family. Regarding comments on Rahul Gandhi in Barack Obama’s recent book, Pawar said there was no need for him to agree with the views expressed by the former US president. “I do not comment on the performance of heads of foreign countries,” he said. Reacting to Pawar’s comments, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “We do not know in what context Pawarsaheb has given his opinion. But to be more specific, the Congress and our leader Rahul Gandhi has been more consistent than any other party in its opposition to RSS and the Modi government. Rahul Gandhi is one of the very few politicians who has the uncompromising courage to speak against the current dispensation in the country, especially when it is shamelessly muzzling the voice of the opposition, trampling on democratic norms while constitutional institutions are watching helplessly, having lost their independence and credibility.” Pawar also took a question on whether his daughter Supriya Sule can become the first woman chief minister of Maharashtra. His reply was she was not interested in state politics. “Ever since she joined politics, she has taken keen interest in national politics, she was won several awards at the national level,’’ he said. So far as Maharashtra is concerned, Pawar said the NCP has several leaders, including Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil and Dhananjay Munde to lead it at the state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharad-pawar-casts-doubts-on-rahul-gandhis-consistency/articleshow/79556739.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||Notorious criminal shot at & injured in gang rivalry in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: An absconding criminal, facing at least 14 cases, was shot at and injured allegedly by the members of his ‘Border gang’ known for issuing extortion threats guised in sinister songs. Imran alias David was shot at by a member of his own gang late on Wednesday. Police have booked three persons and one of the accused was arrested. The gang’s members have been involved in several cases of land grabbing, extortion and murder. Gang leader Border and his two younger brothers are currently lodged in jail. Imran along with some other members of the gang was consuming liquor at a friend’s house in Haddaf locality when a tiff led to the firing. Imran sustained a bullet injury in his stomach. He was rushed to a private hospital. Police also got a tip-off managed reached there. Police had declared a bounty of Rs 25,000 on Imran and he was arrested on October 24. But he managed to get out of the jail on bail within a month. SHO of Sadar Bazaar police station Ashok Pal told TOI, “We have registered an FIR against Ankit Verma and two unidentified gang members. All the people who were present at the spot are criminals and we are trying to identify the reason behind firing. Ankit is in our custody and he would be sent to jail soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/notorious-criminal-shot-at-injured-in-gang-rivalry-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/79551975.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Surveillance scaled up to track tiger||Hyderabad: After Kumuram Bheem-Asifabad district recorded its second human kill by a tiger in a period of less than 20 days last week, officials have increased vigil by setting up 30 CCTV cameras and 80 base camp watchers to monitor the movement of the big cat. Besides, they have set up trap cages in the forest area to nab the tiger that might have killed the 15-year-old girl, who was attacked by the feline when she along with her two brothers and 10 other villagers were picking cotton in an agricultural field inside the forest. The principal chief conservator of forests & chief wildlife warden R Sobha issued an order asking the villagers to take utmost precautions while venturing into the agricultural fields adjacent to the forest areas. “We have also asked the farmers who stay back on field to set up accommodation for themselves on machans if and not to venture in the fields alone. The grazing time for cattle has also been limited to 9 am to 4 pm,” said Kumuram Bheem-Asifabad district forest officer S Shantharam. The forest department also constituted a monitoring committee of experts as per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid down by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to track and deal with the tiger responsible for the death of a 15-year-old tribal girl at Kondapally village of Kumuram Bheem in Asifabad on November 29. The committee consists of seven members with the Adilabad conservator of forests, CP Vinod Kumar as its chairman, Imran Siddique of Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society (HyTiCoS) as the NTCA nominee, Kaghaznagar FDO Vijay as member secretary and four other members including Kondapally sarpanch Upasi Sanjeev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surveillance-scaled-up-to-track-tiger/articleshow/79554407.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Trichy||Free NEET coaching classes see high intake but low attendance||Trichy: Almost twice the number of students from government and government aided schools from the district have joined the free online NEET coaching this year compared to last year. However, only a fraction of them have started attending the classes as out of the 763 students who have registered through the online portal only 129 have been attended the classes till Thursday. An official said that many of the students have cited network issues and inability to recharge for internet as a reason for not attending the classes, said the official, adding that they are planning to conduct a meeting of coordinators in a few days to motivate them to effectively assist students and make them attend the online classes.Last year 448 students had joined, which included students from self-financing schools. This year only government and government aided school students have been included for the free NEET coaching classes, said officials from Trichy district chief education office.“The 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students in MBBS seats came as an encouragement for students from government schools this year,” said M Joan Of Arc, coordinator for free NEET coaching in Trichy. The free coaching started as residential training by the state government and was shifted to online mode this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. A private firm was hired for the purpose to give NEET coaching on the e-box platform. “Since the number of students have increased, a coordinator for each school has been appointed this year for effective support to students,” said Joan of Arc. The coordinator will give necessary assistance to students and monitor if they are attending online sessions and practice tests, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/free-neet-coaching-classes-see-high-intake-but-low-attendance/articleshow/79555695.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Sons of soil stay rooted to borders, say will fight on||NEW DELHI: At Tikri border, every truck represents a village. Mansa, Hat, Maur, Lalian — the list is endless. Representatives of these villages located in the backwaters of Punjab arrived at the Delhi-Haryana border eight days ago and have since stayed put, determined to move only after the Centre repeals the three controversial farm acts. As the talks concluded on Thursday, farmers expressed their anger at the central government’s unwillingness to listen to them, but asserted that they would continue to fight peacefully. “Our demands remain the same. The Centre had told us earlier that it won’t get rid of the minimum support price for crops, but the same was not mentioned in the acts. They said the same thing today, but how can we trust them? This is a revolution and we want total rollback of these laws,” said Mahender Singh, a 56-year-old farmer from Ferozepur district, who reached Delhi on November 26 along with 40 other people from his village. The truck that serves as Mahender’s temporary home is among the hundreds that occupy a 500-metre stretch. More trucks were on their way, said the farmers, mostly from Punjab, who had occupied the area to protest against the “black laws”. Wary of the government, they’ve placed their trust in their pind (village) and pradhan (leader). “Our leaders have assured us that they will ensure that the government listens to us. In the beginning, the Centre was saying that there was nothing wrong in the acts. But now they are saying they will consider our demands. It’s not a victory for us, but shows the power of our will,” said 26-year-old Gurjar Singh, who works with his father on their two-acre farmland. The farmers were also angry at the government’s reluctance in allowing them to march through Delhi. “Why have we been stopped at the border? Can we not go to our national capital with our demands?” asked Manhar Singh, a 48-year-old from Mansa district, pointing towards the deployment of police and security personnel. Throughout the day, security personnel kept a close watch and monitored the protest site. Several special hire buses were on standby, the entrance to Haryana from Delhi was sealed with three lines of interlocked yellow barriers, and police had dug trenches along smaller roads leading to the sites. But the defiant “sons of the soil” were determined to continue their struggle. “We know that the state is watching us. Efforts are being made to paint us as people with an agenda. But we are fighting for our rights and have no reason to fear any backlash. We are not scared of anyone,” said Manpreet Singh from Faridkot district. A group from Freedom Fighters Families Association also attended the protest on Thursday to show solidarity with the farmers. “Our people fought bravely in the freedom struggle to overthrow those who oppressed the country. These laws are oppressive and the fight against them is equally important,” said Harindrapal Singh Khalsa. “We are not scared of sacrificing our lives for the welfare of the nation. That is in our blood. We are fighting for our survival this time and won’t back down,” added Khalsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sons-of-soil-stay-rooted-to-borders-say-will-fight-on/articleshow/79555687.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 4, 2020||Trichy||Heavy rain damage acres of paddy in Thanjavur||Thanjavur: Heavy rain triggered by the Cyclone Burevi has inundated hundreds of samba paddy in Orathanadu block in Thanjavur district. Farmers from various villages in Orathanadu and Pattukottai blocks in the district have raised samba in hundreds of acres. Farmers expressed concern that if the rain continues for a few more days, the grains may get destroyed.According to officials in Tiruvaur, farmers have raised samba paddy in 3.72 lakh acres. In Nagapattinam, the total coverage of paddy is 3.26 lakh acres, while it is 3.15 lakh acres in Thanjavur and around one lakh acres in Trichy district, officials said.Farmers from Soorakottai, Mela Ulur, Azhivaikal, Thennamanadu in Orathanadu block and Pattukottai blocks in the district have cultivated early samba paddy in thousands of acres this year. As the grains have matured, farmers were waiting to harvest paddy by the second or third week of December.Meanwhile, flooding due to heavy rain triggered by the cyclone damaged hundreds of acres of matured paddy crop on Thursday. If farmers could drain the water immediately, they could save their crop. However, they also expressed concern that lodging (standing crop falls on the field) would affect the yield as well as the quality of the harvested crop. Grains will lose its original colour and may turn black, a farmer from Soorkottai said.A section of farmers say the rain is a boon as it would destroy pests. “Excessive rain will lead to inundation and yield loss. However, the rain will also chase away some kinds of pests and it may also attract some other insects. Agriculture officials should educate farmers to manage the pests,” secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/heavy-rain-damage-acres-of-paddy-in-thanjavur/articleshow/79555692.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||17-year-old Alwar girl, raped for 3 years, dies after abortion attempt||ALWAR: A 17-year-old girl, who became pregnant after being raped, died at a government hospital on Tuesday after attempting illegal abortion. On Monday, she was taken to a private nurse for abortion which, according to police, may have proved fatal. Mahila thana police of Bhiwadi in Alwar arrested a 25-year-old man for the rape and murder of the girl on Thursday as well as a 36-year-old nurse for illegal termination of pregnancy. Cops also found that that the accused was in a 'relationship' with the girl for the last three years. He has been booked for rape and murder as she is a minor. According to police, the girl was staying at a rented accommodation in a village in Alwar district. Her family, including parents, are labourers. After attempting abortion, the condition of the girl started deteriorating on Tuesday evening and the family took her to the government hospital. “While undergoing treatment she died. Hospital authorities told us that she had been taken to a private nurse in Alwar for terminating pregnancy,” said Rajesh Yadav, a cop at mahila thana. During investigation, police found that she was taken to the home of the private nurse by the accused, identified as Rohit Gujjar (25). “The accused had known the girl for three years and had raped her for a long time. He had asked the girl to keep mum about it. The illegal attempt to terminate her pregnancy may have proved fatal and led to her death,” the cop, who investigated the matter, said. The accused is a resident of Santhalika village of Alwar. “We have arrested the accused and booked him under various sections of the Pocso Act and IPC for rape and murder,” he said. Police also arrested the nurse, identified as Gunjan Saini (36). “Since it was an illegal termination of pregnancy, we have registered a case under sections of PC/PNDT Act against the woman,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/17-yr-old-alwar-girl-raped-for-3-yrs-dies-after-abortion-attempt/articleshow/79555702.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Engineering colleges welcome new students virtually in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 care and prevention, cybersecurity, time and stress management have become an integral part of the orientation programme in engineering institutions which have inducted the fresh batch of BTech students recently. In education’s new normal, college campuses have undergone a virtual makeover. Institutions have moved their orientation programmes to the web and have added several new elements. Grappling with a strange new reality wherein students would not even get to meet their classmates, colleges have started engaging the fresh batch in various activities to make the most of an unprecedented situation. Week-long orientation programmes, which are otherwise held on campus or college auditoriums, have been relegated to a virtual call. “During the orientation programme, we were shown a recorded video of our college campus and we were explained about each and every facility such as engineering labs. Some senior students also interacted with us and explained us about the college,” said K Avinash Reddy, student, MGIT, Hyderabad. Owing to the lockdown, preparation to train newcomers has taken a new digital spin. “New modules such as human values and professional ethics were added to help students study efficiently from home,” said Jugge Praveen, principal, Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering, which will hold orientation programme till December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-colleges-welcome-new-students-virtually/articleshow/79554409.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Two teens die in road accident||Hyderabad: Two teens died in a road accident at Jayashankar Bhupalapally district when an unidentified vehicle rammed their bike on Wednesday. The victims were identified as Rakesh (18) of Rudraram village and Rohit (19) of Bhupalapally town. According to Bhupalapally sub-inspector Abhinav, the accident occurred when they were travelling from Bhupalapally to Kataram on Wednesday night. “The victims were not wearing helmets. They sustained grievous head injuries and died on the spot,” he said. There were no CCTV cameras at the accident spot and the police are trying to locate CCTV footage of the nearby places. Police launched a manhunt to nab the accused. The bodies were shifted to a nearby hospital and after the postmortem they were handed over to the kin. Based on a complaint lodged by family members, a case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-teens-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/79554411.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Waste management: Why Delhi's Bhalswa could be a pointer||NEW DELHI: The capital’s Bhalswa landfill has effectively used biomining and bioremediation to reduce the height of its waste mountain by 11-12 metres in a year, a study carried out by Centre for Science and Environment has said. According to Clean it Right — Dumpsite Management in India, which has identified the best management practices at the 3,159 dumpsites across the country, bioremediation and biomining are some of the best possible solutions to reduce the height of landfills, with some already recording a drop in their overall height by processing legacy waste. Bhalswa landfill, which receives around 2,400 metric tonnes (MT) of waste every day, is now processing 4,200MT of waste daily through 15 trommel machines, which, till August 18, 2020, had removed around 6,61,454MT legacy waste, the study states. “Of this, about 85,631 tonnes of inert material has been lifted from Bhalswa and dumped at the eco-park site of NTPC at Badarpur and other low-lying areas. About 97,075MT combustible waste or refuse-derived fuel has been sent for co-processing to Jabalpur and the waste-to-energy plant in Bawana,” it adds. Each trommel machine is capable of separating waste, removing inert material, construction and demolition waste (C&D), waste and inorganic materials, allowing each to be processed separately. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has paid Rs 3,240 per tonne for co-processing the recovered plastic at Jabalpur and Rs 1,800 at the Bawana plant. The biomining process has also recovered 10,129 tonne C&D waste. “Legacy waste of about 52,700 sqm area and 11-metre height from the first mound and of about 6,100 sqm area and 12-metre height from the second mound have been cleared from Bhalswa,” states the study. The corporation plans to add more trommel machines and increase the processing capacity to 5,500 tonne per day. Bhalswa landfill in northwest Delhi has been operational since 1994. It reached an estimated height of 62 metres by 2019 and stretches across 70 acres, with an estimated 80 lakh cubic metres of legacy waste above ground level and 8 lakh cubic metres below. The study also lists other successful models, including the Indore one, which cleared a landfill site in around three years, turning it into a garden after removing 15 lakh tonne legacy waste. Other examples include Hyderabad, Kumbakonam, Vijayawada and Ambikapur. “Capping of dumpsites is expensive and, as evident from attempted failures, environmentally hazardous. It requires maintenance to handle gases and leachate generated for around 15-20 years,” the study points out. As Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 suggests, civic bodies should try biomining and remediation, it states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-management-why-bhalswa-could-be-a-pointer/articleshow/79555697.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Youths to be trained for services tests||Hyderabad: Siddipet youth will be provided coaching and training to get into the armed forces and paramilitary forces. Finance minister T Harish Rao said arrangements would be made to give them training so that they would get into the defence forces. To facilitate training, a 400-metre running track will be readied in three days. He promised those who put in 80% attendance that he would provide them free study material. Those attending the training will have to attend the physical exercises training from 6 am to 8 am. Theory classes will be from 9 am to 12 noon. The minister was addressing youth at the Government Junior College in Siddipet. They were being given coaching to prepare for exams for constable jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youths-to-be-trained-for-services-tests/articleshow/79554415.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Parents ask min to intervene||Hyderabad: The parents associations of CBIT and MGIT on Thursday met education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy and submitted a representation requesting her to intervene and ensure that certificates are issued to students immediately. They said that although parents paid fees as per the GO 21 dated July 4, 2016, and cleared all dues, managements are demanding an additional fee. While CBIT students, who joined in BTech courses under management quota in 2016 and completed the course this year were asked to pay about Rs 2 lakh each, MGIT students were asked to pay a little over one lakh rupees as an additional fee, parents said. “Not just the students who graduated this year, students who are currently in the final or third year of B Tech are also facing the same issue as the management is asking them to pay an excess fee,” said S Padma Reddy, general secretary of the association. Students and their parents said the undertaking they gave to college only says that they will pay the excess fee if the government issues orders. “Right now, the case is pending in court, but the college is demanding an excess fee and is withholding certificates, without which students will not able to pursue higher education or join in jobs,” said Mamatha V, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-ask-min-to-intervene/articleshow/79554420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||MHA ranks Telangana’s Jammikunta police station 10th best in country||HYDERABAD: In the yearly ranking of police stations across the country, Telangana’s Jammikunta town police station in Karimnagar district was ranked 10th best by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday. For the second consecutive year, the police station figured among the top 10 in the country. The MHA shortlisted 75 police stations across the country on the basis of various criteria. From Telangana, apart from Jammikunta police station, Lalaguda police station of Hyderabad police commissionerate and Tripuraram police station from Nalgonda district too were among the 75 police stations. After physical verification, the MHA officials award marks under various criteria such as crime against women, cleanliness of police station, crime detection and several other factors, and accordingly rank each police station. Asked in what areas the top nine police stations fared better in comparison to Jammikunta PS, Karimnagar police commissioner VB Kamalasan Reddy said that it is difficult for him to say as it all depends on marks a police station is awarded. According to the MHA, 19 parameters were identified to evaluate the standards of service delivery and identify techniques of improvement in policing in the final stage. “This part constituted 80% of weightage in overall scoring. The balance 20% was based on infrastructure of the police station and approachability of personnel and feedback of citizens,” the MHA said in a statement. As many as 4,056 respondents took part in the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mha-ranks-jammikunta-ps-10th-best-in-country/articleshow/79554418.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala CM violated model code, claims MM Hassan||THRISSUR: UDF convener MM Hassan alleged on Thursday that the chief minister has violated the model code of conduct by announcing free ration kit distribution during Christmas. Replying to questions at the programme organized by Thrissur Press Club, Hassan asked the state election commission to take action against the chief minister. He said Pinarayi Vijayan made the announcement knowing fully well that such announcements (or projects) during the period of electioneering will be a violation of the model code. When asked if UDF feared that the said announcement would adversely impact its prospects in the upcoming local body elections, Hassan replied, “LDF cannot improve its electoral prospects even if it offered gold kits to voters. The LDF government is neck-deep in corruption and a failure on all fronts. LDF leaders are saying they are seeking votes for development during election. But people are aware that all its developmental projects are alibis for corruption.” According to Hassan, the recent controversies surrounding the raids in KSFE offices indicated the emergence of an ‘anti-Pinarayi syndicate’ in CPM. “It was the open statements of FM T M Thomas Isaac and CPM leader Anathalavattom Anandan, which made the vigilance raids at KSFE controversial. The media only reported their statements. But, CM is trying to blame alleged media syndicate for the controversy,” he said, adding that the SC order upholding CBI probe in Periya case is a slap on the face of the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cm-violated-model-code-claims-hassan/articleshow/79553095.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Sangvi resident loses Rs 2.5 crore to 22 fraudsters in eight years||PUNE: A man (47) from Sangvi was duped online by as many as 22 fraudsters since 2012 and he incurred a loss of Rs2.5 crore over the eight years. “The man running a housekeeping business did not suspect anything and went on transferring money whenever the people he never met demanded for it. He transferred the amount through 277 online transactions in these years,” senior inspector Sanjay Tungar of the cybercrime cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police said. The man on Wednesday approached the Sangvi police and lodged an FIR against 22 people. The man stated in his complaint that since 2012, the fraudsters had been calling him over the cellphone with offers of good returns on his investments. The fraudsters even posed as employees of different private as well as government insurance companies and took money from him. “The man also transferred money believing some unknown people, who posed as officials from clubs,” inspector Ajay Bhosale of the Sangvi police said. The suspects took money from the complainant under the pretext of different charges, including transaction, GST, instalment, report, income tax, demand draft, postal charges, file reopening charges, stamp duty and commission. “The fraudsters forwarded him fake policies and certificates,” Bhosale said. Inspector Tungar said the victim did not approach the police or even his friends till October 21 this year. “After losing Rs2.5 crore to the fraudsters, he realised that he had been duped and informed some his friends, who brought him to the cybercrime cell,” Tungar said, adding that the probe in this case was quite vast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sangvi-resident-loses-rs-2-5-crore-to-22-fraudsters-in-eight-years/articleshow/79554468.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Pune builder ties up with US firm to bid for Lavasa project||Pune: City-based builder Aniruddha Deshpande, who has tied up with an US company, is among the bidders for the Lavasa hill station project.According to sources, three firms have put up bids to take over the project. The final decision will be taken soon after they submit the resolution plan for further evaluation. The three firms that have bid for the project will have to meet the requirements and it is being assessed.Deshpande confirmed the bid and said he had entered the bid in a partnership with InterUPS, a private equity firm based out New York. Sources said that Deshpande will act as an implementation partner and strategic investor. The team will also include some members of the hill station project, who will act as advisers. According to sources, the resolution plan will be submitted in the coming fortnight.The other two bids have been by Royale Partners Investment Fund Ltd and UV Assets Reconstruction Company Ltd. All three bidders are expected to submit a detailed resolution plan to take the project forward.Citizens staying at Lavasa are hoping for state government intervention to understand their problems ahead of the bid finalization. The Central Public Grievance Portal (CPGRAMS) has directed the state government to address the grievances of Lavasa residents.The department of administrative reforms and public grievances directed the state government to address the issue, terming it a state subject. Lavasa residents are having a difficult time with the management of the private hill station under the Resolution Personnel (RP) appointed by National Company Law Tribunal for the last two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-builder-ties-up-with-us-firm-to-bid-for-lavasa-project/articleshow/79554456.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Pollachi rape case: CBI to collect voice samples||Coimbatore: The district mahila court here on Thursday granted permission to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to examine voice samples of the five accused in the sensational Pollachi rape case. CBI, which had seized video clips of the survivor being sexually abused, had submitted a petition before the mahila court a month ago, seeking permission to take the voice samples of the accused for voice analysis.Though the court ordered CBI to produce K Thirunavukkarasu, N Sabarirajan, R Manivannan, T Vasanthakumar and N Sathish, the pandemic situation caused delay. A few days ago, the court again ordered CBI to produce the accused on Thursday.The accused were brought to the court from the Salem Central Prison and the court gave permission to conduct voice analysis. According to sources, the accused will be taken to the forensic science laboratory in Chennai, where voice samples will be collected for analysis. A 19-year-old Pollachi-based college student was allegedly raped by the gang, which also filmed the act and blackmailed her. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pollachi-rape-case-cbi-to-collect-voice-samples/articleshow/79554461.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Elevated corridor construction kicks off on Avinashi Road||Coimbatore: Municipal administration minister S P Velumani launched construction of the elevated corridor on Avinashi Road on Thursday. The 10.1km corridor, to be built at a cost of Rs 1,621.30 crore, will connect Uppilipalayam and Goldwins. The state highways department plans to complete the work within four years.Addressing party cadre, Velumani said that the project will reduce traffic congestion on the busy Avinashi Road. “AIADMK has been implementing a lot of development projects across the state. While we are working round-the-clock for people, DMK is not doing anything and is cheating the public by making false promises. People won’t believe DMK’s false promises,” he said. “During its regime, DMK failed to implement projects. Farmers protested for several years for the Athikadavu-Avinashi project. Now, AIADMK is implementing it.”“When deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam announced chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate for 2021 assembly election, we all knew that Palaniswami will be the next CM,” Velumani said.Several flyovers are being constructed in Coimbatore, the minister said. “After the Coimbatore-Pollachi Road was completed, people can reach Pollachi from Coimbatore within 20 minutes. All the roads in Coimbatore district were expanded. During the AIADMK regime, four government colleges were started in Coimbatore and one college was started in Palladam in Tirupur district. DMK did not do anything for Coimbatore. We have a list of projects implemented for the development of Coimbatore. We are going to implement the metro rail project here soon,” Velumani said.Deputy speaker of the state assembly Pollachi V Jayaraman said AIADMK and alliance parties will win 200 seats in the 2021 assembly election.Coimbatore collector K Rajamani, AIADMK MLAs, officials from revenue, corporation and state highways department participated in the function.As many as 1,000 AIADMK cadres, who participated in the function, failed to maintain social distancing norms, sources said.KNR Construction Limited started the work at 5pm near the PSG College of Arts and Science.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elevated-corridor-construction-kicks-off-on-avinashi-road/articleshow/79554454.cms||A Subburaj
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||With no certs, CBIT & MGIT students may lose job offers||Hyderabad: Failure to submit BTech certificate might cost dearly to about 200 students of Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT) or Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Technology (MGIT), who either have job offers in hand or are waiting for counselling to join in postgraduate courses. Students, who graduated this year from the said colleges, said that they hardly have a week for certificate verification of PGCET and added that failing to produce certificates during the counselling will make them ineligible to secure an MTech seat. The same is the case with students who appeared for Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) or received job offers. “If I don’t have my certificates handy by Monday, I might have to forgo my job offer received from a multinational company. If requested, I might get another two or three days’ time, but not more than that,” said a student from MGIT who graduated this year. She said that this job is important to her as she is planning to pursue a Masters programme after gaining some work experience. Students say that managements are playing with their careers by withholding certificates. “I have appeared for Telangana State Post Graduate Engineering Common Entrance Test and planning to secure a seat in computer science engineering in M Tech. The certificate verification will be conducted in the next week or so. If I don’t get certificates by then, I will lose an academic year,” said Richa Sri, who studied mechanical engineering at CBIT. According to students and their parents, about 120 students, who completed their BTech this year, from CBIT and about 60 to 90 students from MGIT are facing this issue. Even those planning to do their masters abroad are a worried lot as managements are allegedly not issuing no due certificates without which they cannot get the letter of recommendations and other required certificates/documents. “I am planning to do my MBA abroad and I am worried that I might not get required documents from the college on time,” said V Nitish Kumar Reddy, a student of CBIT adding that the issue should be resolved immediately as all students would need their certificates one day or the other. While the principal of MGIT refused to comment on the issue, JNTU authorities said that they can’t intervene as the matter is in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-no-certs-cbit-mgit-students-may-lose-job-offers/articleshow/79554489.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 75-year-old woman raped by 32-yr-old daily wage labourer||COIMBATORE: A 75-year-old woman was raped by a 32-year-daily wage labourer in a farmland near Pollachi on Wednesday evening. According to the Gomangalam police, the elderly woman is living with her husband at a house in a farmland near Pollachi. She is a farmworker. On Wednesday evening, she was working at the farm when the daily wage labourer, who was working in the nearby farmland, pushed the elderly woman to the ground and raped her. She raised an alarm and farmers who were working in the nearby agricultural fields rushed to the spot. Meanwhile, the rapist managed to escape from the place. Based on the elderly woman’s complaint, the Gomangalam police registered a rape case and formed a special team to nab the accused. She was admitted to the Pollachi government hospital. In yet another incident, a 37-year-old woman was allegedly molested by a 24-year-old man in a public place on Tuesday night while she was returning home after work. Police said the victim is a resident of Ramanathapuram in the city. She is running a canteen on a private hospital premises. On Tuesday around 10.45pm, she was returning home by walk when B Kameswaran, 24, of Angannan Layout at Ramanathapuram, followed her and molested her in a public place. She raised an alarm and the locals rescued her but Kameswaran managed to escape. The Ramanathapuram police arrested Kameswaran on Wednesday. He was booked under sections 294 (b) (uttering obscenities), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 (i) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/75-year-old-woman-raped-by-32-yr-old-daily-wage-labourer/articleshow/79554486.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Flyover work may worsen traffic congestion on arterial roads||Coimbatore: With the work to construct another flyover commencing on Thursday, arterial roads in the city would further get congested for vehicular traffic. Flyover works are underway in all the arterial roads in the city, including Trichy Road, Ukkadam -Athupalam Road and Mettupalayam Road. Avinashi Road was the only road which had relatively less traffic congestion. For the next four years, even this road would see traffic congestion till the completion of the flyover construction. As a result, smaller roads would get congested as vehicles would start using them to avoid Avinashi Road. Avinashi Road has six lanes. The state highways department (project) will take over the two lanes to construct 397 pillars on the 10km stretch from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins. On Thursday evening, KNR Construction Limited started to place barricades to cover the two lanes on Avinashi Road from PSG College of Arts and Science to SITRA junction. Heavy traffic jam witnessed in the stretch in the evening and a woman traffic cop was deputed at the spot to regulate the traffic.According to sources, the private construction company will place barricades from LIC Signal to Anna Statue soon. The construction workers will be used on a shift basis and the work will take place round-the-clock.“The traffic signals on the 10km stretch on Avinashi Road will be removed and all the advanced cameras from the traffic signals will also be removed soon. However, we will impose fine for traffic violations by manually and police-e-eye application,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Coimbatore city, R Mutharasu said.“The construction company would take over the two lanes for the elevated corridor work. So, we will have only four lanes and the road will witness heavy traffic jams. If we face heavy traffic on Avinashi road, we will discuss with the highways authorities to divert the vehicle to other routes,” Mutharasu said.The national highways (NH) wing of the state highways has been constructing a flyover on Trichy Road for a stretch of 3.15km. The work will be completed in the next 18 months. The same wing has been constructing another flyover on Mettupalayam Road at Kavundamapalayam. The state highways department has been constructing a flyover between Ukkadam and Athupalam. “Once the Trichy Road flyover work is completed, we can divert traffic to Trichy Road from Avinashi road. We are working with other department officials to ease the traffic congestions in the city,” Mutharasu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flyover-work-may-worsen-traffic-congestion-on-arterial-roads/articleshow/79554478.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kozhikode||Mullappally ‘withdraws’ Cong nominee||Kozhikode: The confusion in the UDF over the candidate at Kallamala block panchayat seat has been resolved with KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran announcing the withdrawal of Congress candidate in favour of the RMPI. Addressing a ‘meet-the-leader’ programme organized by the Calicut press club here on Thursday, Mullappaally said he has directed the Congress candidate to remain inactive in the campaign considering the unity in the party. Congress candidate K P Jayakumar, who was given nomination in the hand symbol, will be working for the victory of the RMPI candidate P Sugathan. However, Jayakumar’s name will be in the ballot paper as the last date for the withdrawal is over. Mullappally, who batted for the Congress candidate, made a tactical retreat sensing the mood of local party workers. The Congress leader realized that his detractors will blame him if the CPM wins the seat. The RMPI leadership also was annoyed by the KPCC president’s stand. But the KPCC president, however, did not conceal his displeasure over the behaviour of MP K Muraleedharan, who openly protested Congress contesting the seat, sabotaging the understanding with RMPI. The IUML also extended support to RMPI, totally sidelining Mullappally. Though Mullappally accepted defeat in the Kallamala issue, he remained adamant over the seat adjustment with Welfare Party of India (WPI). The Congress leader threw enough indication that those who took the lead in striking a deal with WPI will have to bear the responsibility if the move backfires in the election. Muraleedharan had justified the seat adjustment with WPI, saying that it has the sanction of the political affair committee of Congress. During the event, Mullappally said he would take action against Congress workers who jointly conduct campaigns with WPI. He made the comment when it was pointed out that the WPI candidate was also present at a function attended by him in Malappuram recently. Mullappally had posted a photo on his Facebook page in which a WPI cadre was also present as UDF candidate. Asked about the incident, Mullappally said he was not aware of the presence of WPI cadre and assured that he would take action against the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mullappally-withdraws-cong-nominee/articleshow/79553118.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK to hold statewide protest against farm laws tomorrow||DMK has backed the farmers protesting in Delhi against new farm laws and has decided to organize black flag protests in all district headquarters in Tamil Nadu on December 5 in their support. “As a respect for the farmers protest in Delhi and to get the three farm laws revoked to save agriculture, DMK would hold a democratic protest in all district headquarters on Saturday,’’ a statement from the party said. A decision to this effect was taken at the district secretaries meeting held on Thursday. Condemning the BJP for bringing the new farm laws and the AIADMK for supporting them, the DMK said in a statement on Thursday that the Centre which ‘demeaned’ the protesting farmers and alleged they were instigated by opposition parties, has now stepped down from their stand to hold talks. “This is the first victory,’’ the party said in the statement.BJP, which is ruling in the Centre, and AIADMK at helm in the state have rejected the pleas for waiver of farm loans. Farmers have been struggling on all fronts in the country. That’s the reason they have jumped into the massive protest in Delhi. The protesting farmers who represent the agricultural community from across the country have succeeded in shaking the BJP government from their position of ‘arrogance.’ “In the initial days of the protest, the Centre ridiculed the farmers, alleged that they were instigated by opposition parties and attempted to intimidate them with police force. They have now stepped down from their pedestal and have called for a dialogue. This is the first victory for democracy,” the statement said.Despite opposition from DMK president M K Stalin and party MPs, BJP brought the three farm laws that don’t talk about minimum support price, tends to do away with free electricity to farmers, aims to abolish regulated markets and mandis, only to benefit corporates. DMK condemned the AIADMK for supporting the laws “to express their loyalty to BJP for the sake of political alliance,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-to-hold-statewide-protest-against-farm-laws-tomorrow/articleshow/79554472.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Two killed near Karad in accident||Pune/Kolhapur: A tailor (48) from Phursungi and his brother-in-law were killed, while three others, including the paralysed wife of the former, suffered injuries after a vehicle coming from the opposite direction hit the car they were travelling in near Karad on Mumbai-Bengaluru National Highway early in the morning on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as Shirhari Tukaram Waghmare and his brother-in-law, Bapusaheb Khanderao Kamble (50), a resident of Kalewadi in Pimpri. The three injured persons are Ashwini Shrihari Waghmare, Ragini Shrihari Waghmare and the driver of the car, Fulchand Navnath Chatur. Datta Raut, a Panchayat Samiti member from Phursungi, told TOI, “The Waghmare family was going to Belgavi in Karnataka to meet a doctor for the treatment of Ashwini. Shrihari’s brother-in-law was accompanying them. Waghmare’s son had stayed back in Phursungi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-killed-near-karad-in-accident/articleshow/79554483.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||Three held from Rajkot for printing, circulating fake notes||Palanpur: Special Operation Group (SOG) sleuths in Mehsana arrested three people on Wednesday for circulating fake currency notes. Cops also seized the machines they used to print these counterfeits at their residence in Rajkot. Total 137 notes — of Rs200 denomination and one half burnt note of Rs 500 denomination — with face value of Rs 90,000 were seized, said cops. The arrested trio include Dilipbhai Kariya from Kotharia main road, Sagar Bilosiya from Sadguru complex on Ring Road and Magan Koli, a resident of Khodiyarpara in Rajkot. All three have been sent to 10 days’ police custody.Inspector DD Sodha said that acting under the instructions of Mehsana SP Parthrajsinh Gohil, the SOG sleuths carried out the investigation leading to the arrest of the three culprits. On November 27, a Rajkot-based businessman gave the owner of a provision store in Bechraji in Mehsana, Dilip Patel, two bundles of FICN in Rs 200 denomination with face value of Rs 40,000. Patel passed on the fake notes to Narendrabhai Chaudhary of Paradise Trading stores and Keshavlal Patel of Mahakali Traders in Mehsana, who have accounts with HDFC Bank. The bank found the notes to be counterfeits and informed the police. Cops swung into action and dug on till they could reach the main culprits printing the fake notes and also circulating these through vendors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-held-from-rajkot-for-printing-circulating-fake-notes/articleshow/79553125.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Shop owners urge corpn to expedite road work||Coimbatore: Afraid of losing customers in the Christmas and Pongal season because of the ongoing road work, shop owners on DB Road have appealed the city corporation to complete the model road project at the earliest. They said the business, which had been dull since February when the road work began, had come to a standstill now as the shops were not accessible to the public. On Thursday morning, owner of Yaminee Kids Dinesh Bhandia posted on Namma Kovai WhatsApp group, which has general public and government officials as members, that the project had hit hundreds of business establishments on the road very badly.“Footfalls started dropping from February when the road work began. It became nil during the lockdown. Since the road is dug up, our shops are not accessible to the customers. So, our businesses have not recovered. And we are paying huge rent, salary to our staff and bank interests. We may go bankrupt soon,” he said.M Edwin, founder of Footloose Dance School that is located on the road, said Dinesh’s post was 100% true. “Business is severely affected, because it is impossible to drive through the stretch. With access to the road remaining blocked for the past couple of weeks, we ourselves find it hard to enter our establishments. Then, how will the customers or students turn up?” City corporation officials had initially committed to completing the 1.2km stretch from Sukrawarpet Road Junction to TV Swamy Road Junction by October-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shop-owners-urge-corpn-to-expedite-road-work/articleshow/79554501.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Cyclone Burevi brings rain||Coimbatore: Cyclone Burevi, which is heading towards the southern coast of Tamil Nadu from Sri Lanka, led to cloudy and rainy conditions in the district on Thursday. Movement of the cyclone from the Tamil Nadu coast towards the southern coast of Kerala will continue to bring Coimbatore and Nilgiris a couple of heavy showers until Friday night, weather experts said. The district recorded a maximum of 24 C and minimum of 22 C. At least 27mm rain was recorded until Thursday night, weather experts said. “We will know the exact amount of rainfall recorded through Thursday only on Friday morning,” said a regional meteorological centre official.“However, we predict cloudy skies and two heavy showers until Friday night, when the cyclone will make its landfall in southern Kerala,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at Skymet Weather Services.The district recorded 1.3mm rain on Wednesday and 142.2mm rain during the northeast monsoon. Experts had prodicted 270-280mm rain in the district during the season. “We are confident that the district will receive another 130mm rainfall in the next one month,” said an official.The rain left DB Road, Sukrawarpet and the Mettupalayam Road in Kavundampalayam, a slushy mess. The Mettupalayam Road saw massive traffic jams on both sides of the flyover project. Corporation officials had to close the entry to the the south side of DB Road, where work for a model road is ongoing. “DB Road is a pile of slush and mud. It has been completely unmotorable and unwalkable,” said Dhanraj, who runs a fancy store.Motorists who used the Mettupalayam Road blamed the highways department for not repairing the service lanes. “Even a light rain can cause water stagnation and turn the road slushy. It is impossible to use the road,” said a housekeeping staff working in Saibaba Colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cyclone-burevi-brings-rain/articleshow/79554497.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC results today to decide who will rule Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Will BJP win enough seats in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to create a base for itself in Telangana and mount a campaign for the assembly in 2023? Or will TRS maintain its stranglehold on the civic body? The answer would be known by late afternoon on Friday after the ballot boxes are opened and votes polled in the civic election are counted. Both TRS and BJP have made the civic election into a prestige issue as Greater Hyderabad comprises 25 assembly constituencies and four Lok Sabha seats. A win here would have a ripple effect on another dozen assembly segments that dot the city’s periphery. BJP, which has only two MLAs in the Telangana assembly at present, is hoping GHMC will give it a launchpad needed to become a serious contender, not only in Telangana but in other southern states as well. For the time being, however, all eyes will be on GHMC poll results. Counting of 34.5 lakh votes will begin at 8 am in 30 counting centres across the city. Initial results are expected by 11 am. Results of a majority of the divisions will be out by 2 pm, said the election authorities. Of the 150 divisions for which the polls were held on December 1, result of Mehdipatnam division is expected in the first round itself. Gajularamaram division result is expected to come the last going by the number of votes to be counted. While the arrangements have been made to count in 14,000 votes in each round, only 11,818 votes were polled in Mehdipatnam and the highest number of 32,999 votes were polled in Gajularamaram. Officials said results of 136 divisions are expected to be completed in the second round. In about 20 divisions such as Adikmet, Ameerpet, Chintal, Barkas, Puranapul and Shastripuram less than 20,000 votes were polled. In another 13 divisions such as Mylardevpally, Uppal, Kanchanbagh, Amberpet, Rahmatnagar, Kondapur, Old Bowenpally, Gajularamaram, Tarnaka and Sitaphalmandi results are expected after completion of third round. GHMC officials said the counting process will begin with counting of 1,926 postal ballots before going for other votes. Of the 30 counting centres across the city, 150 counting halls have been arranged in all the counting centres depending on the number of divisions in each circle. “Fourtneen tables have been provided in each counting hall to count 1,000 votes by each table. At each table, a counting supervisor and two assistants will be deployed,” GHMC commission Lokesh Kumar said. Since the counting is done manually, the entire counting process will be recorded on CCTVs. “Candidates can seek recounting before declaration of the results if they have any doubts or objections,” Lokesh said. As the State Election Commission (SEC) had insisted on strict Covid-19 protocols, the ballot boxes will be brought by the staff by wearing PPE kits from the strong rooms. The GHMC has made wearing mask compulsory for all the staff and agents of various political parties. The Election Commission has banned usage of cellphones at the counting centres. The TRS, AIMIM, BJP, Congress and TDP have sent important leaders as counting agents to oversee the counting process. Meanwhile, some of the candidates who are confident of winning elections are already gearing up for celebrations both at their party office and outside the counting centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-results-today-to-decide-who-will-rule-city/articleshow/79556204.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 4, 2020||Pune||Activists urge companies to reveal true plastic usage||Pune: A survey conducted by the Break Free From Plastics — a global initiative against plastic pollution — revealed that single-use plastic pollution continued to be a cause for concern.The survey was conducted in association with the city-based wastepickers’ collective, SWaCH. A report on the basis of the survey, termed as ‘brand audit’, conducted in 55 major countries across the world stated that various companies and conglomerates were found producing goods with highest amount of single-use plastics, as well as other variants of it, which are difficult to recycle. The survey was undertaken in several Indian cities, including Pune. “What we want to see from the companies is for them to reveal the actual amount of plastic they are using, as well as for them to set real and measurable targets to reduce its use,” Emma Priestland, global campaign coordinator of Break Free From Plastics, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/activists-urge-companies-to-reveal-true-plastic-usage/articleshow/79554504.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 4, 2020||Pune||Transporters incur heavy losses||Pune: State transporters are staring at a loss of around Rs 20 crore a week, with many roads and highways blocked owing to farmers’ protest in and around Delhi against the new agriculture laws. “Several trucks are stranded near Delhi. Trucks travelling towards north have stopped loading,” Baba Shinde, president, Maharashtra State Vahan Chalak Malak Pratinidhi Sanghatna, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/transporters-incur-heavy-losses/articleshow/79554495.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||Four posing as cops to con elderly detained in Porbandar||Rajkot: Four members of a multi-state gang who duped people, especially elderly persons, of their jewellery by posing as cops were detained in Porbandar on Thursday. Police said the accused, Sultan Irani alias Gabbar Ali (42), Mohemmed Irani (20), Raza Ali Irani (22), all three from Madhya Pradesh (MP), and Isha Ali Qadar (30) from Jalgaon in Maharashtra, were involved in at least nine cases of cheating. “We arrested the accused, following a tip-off about them coming to Porbandar. Acting on the information, we kept a watch on Porbandar-Jamnagar Highway. Soon an SUV with the registration number of Maharashtra was spotted. The SUV sped away when we tried to stop it. We chased the SUV to a distance and nabbed the accused,” said M N Dave, an inspector with Porbandar local crime branch (LCB). The police recovered four gold bangles worth Rs 2.40 lakh, Rs 22,000 cash, imitation jewellery, two cellphones and two cards with the inscription of ‘Delhi Crime Bharat Sanchar Virodhi Morcha’, a fake press ID card, and one card with the inscription of ‘Police Mitra’ from the accused. During interrogation, the accused confessed to committing nine offences in Porbandar, Rajkot, Gondal, Bhachau, Bhuj, Dabhoi, Manasa, Himmatnagar and Bodeli, said Dave. The accused also confessed to having committed crimes in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, he added. “The modus operandi of the accused was to target elderly persons, especially women. They would pose as cops and ask the victims to remove their jewellery and put them in the purse given by them, telling them that there was a loot or murder reported ahead and that the police checking was on. When the victim removed their jewellery, they would hoodwink the victims and steal the jewellery,” said N M Gadhvi, sub-inspector with Porbandar LCB. Sultan Irani is the leader of the gang who attacked a police team that had gone in search of him in Sendhwa village of MP on March 13, 2018. “After the cases were reported in Porbandar, Rajkot and Gondal, we obtained the CCTV footage of the cases and found that the same accused had been involved in the crime,” added Dave. The accused have been detained at present. They will be formally arrested once they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-posing-as-cops-to-con-elderly-detained-in-porbandar/articleshow/79553188.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 25 Covid-19 cases, 20 get discharged||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged 25 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,490, of which 180 are active cases.The number of recovered patients, meanwhile, went up to 7,268 on the day, with 20 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The recovery rate in the hill retreat stands unchanged at 97%.Among the new cases, eight were reported from Gudalur block and the remaining cases were spread across Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri blocks.Of the 180 active cases, eight patients are admitted to government facilities in Coimbatore, while 18 people are treated at private hospitals in the city. At least 30 patients are in home quarantine and the remaining patients are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur and two Covid care centres in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-25-covid-19-cases-20-get-discharged/articleshow/79554511.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Mobile phone heist: 7 more arrested in MP||Krishnagiri: The special team of Krishnagiri police arrested seven people in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday in connection with the Rs15-crore mobile phone heist that was reported near Hosur on October 21.Police identified the accused as Rajendran, 45, Amir, 27, Khan, 28, Bharath, 34, Kamal, 60, Hemtha, 23, and Bhavani, 45. All of them were brought to the district on Thursday and produced before the judicial magistrate of Hosur sub-court, which remanded them in judicial custody for 15 days. They were subsequently lodged in the Salem Central Prison.The special team had nabbed one of the key accused, Bharath Deewani, 37, of Indur in Madhya Pradesh, on November 23 and another accused, Amithaba Dutta, 37, a native of Kolkata, on November 27.The team is expected to move the court, seeking the custody of the arrested accused for interrogating them.The gang had looted 14,400 Redmi mobile phones from a container truck that was heading to Mumbai from Chennai via Krishnagiri district on October 21 after thrashing driver K Sathish Kumar, 39, of Poonamallee near Chennai and cleaner N Arun, 24, of Coimbatore. “The two were tied together and pushed down from the truck, which was later found abandoned at Alagupavi area on Chennai-Bengaluru national highway,” an investigation officer said.The Shoolagiri police registered a case and initiated an inquiry. A special team comprising 20 police personnel was also formed to crack the case.The team identified that the Ankith Janja gang of Madhya Pradesh was involved in the heist and left for that state to nab the gang members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mobile-phone-heist-7-more-arrested-in-mp/articleshow/79554507.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||PIC to host 8th NCSI edition||Pune: The Pune International Centre (PIC) will host the eighth edition of the National Conference on Social Innovation (NCSI), in association with the National Innovation Foundation as well as the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, on Friday and Saturday. The event will be held online, with participation from PIC president Raghunath Mashelkar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pic-to-host-8th-ncsi-edition/articleshow/79554509.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Don’t distribute govt sops: SEC||Thiruvananthapuram: The state election commission has issued directions to candidates not to engage in distribution of government-related benefits to people. The direction was issued based on complaints that candidates distributed welfare pension, thus influencing voters. The commission also assessed that candidates who are Asha workers shall not distribute medicines. The commission directed departments concerned to arrange alternative arrangements for the same. Returning officers will communicate the direction to candidates. It was brought to the notice of commission that the candidates who were local body members between 2015-20 had distributed welfare pension in a bid to influence voters. Meanwhile, webcasting facility will be introduced in 1,850 sensitive booths in the state. Kannur with 785 has the highest number of sensitive booths and Pathanamthitta has the lowest at 5. Videography will be conducted in sensitive booths identified by polling officials and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dont-distribute-govt-sops-sec/articleshow/79553145.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Cops recover 11 cellphones from criminal||Pune: The Deccan Gymkhana police recovered 11 stolen smart phones and two scooters, totally worth Rs2.29 lakh, from the possession of a 21-year-old criminal on Riverbed Road in Deccan on the night of December 1. Senior police inspector Muralidhar Karpe of the Deccan Gymkhana police station said, “We have arrested Rakesh Johny Sakat (21) of Mangalwar Peth. He is a criminal on police records.” A police team was patrolling the Riverbed Road on the night of December 1 when it spotted Sakat sitting on a scooter at an isolated spot beneath S M Joshi Bridge. The police then began questioning him. Karpe said, “The police team decided to check his vehicle and it proved to be the right decision as 11 stolen phones were found in his scooter’s storage compartment,” Karpe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-recover-11-cellphones-from-criminal/articleshow/79554514.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Cong dharna in Yavatmal to support farmers’ Delhi stir||Yavatmal: The Yavatmal District Congress Committee staged dharna at the local Azad Maidan on Thursday to support the farmers’ ongoing agitation in New Delhi. Former Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Manikrao Thakre, former ministers Shivajirao Moghe and Vasant Purke, MLC and DCC president Dr Wazahat Mirza, ZP ex-president Pravin Deshmukh, former vice-president Balasaheb Mangulkar and others participated in the dharna. “The newly enacted farm laws are detrimental to the farmers in the country and the ruling BJP passed it without any consultation with the opposition parties. Congress is protesting against the laws right from the beginning as it would make farmers a pawn in the hands of corporates,” said Thakre. “Narendra Modi had in 2014 announced that if his party is voted to power, the first decision in the first cabinet meeting would be on the minimum support price (MSP) on the parameters of input cost plus 50% profit to the farmers. He has made this promise to the farmers across the country during his ‘Chai pe charcha’ programme held in Dabhadi village in Arni tehsil,” Thakre recalled. “After BJP was voted to power, Modi has forgotten the promise despite ruling the country for over six years. Banking on the brute majority in Parliament, PM Modi passed three laws, which are pro-corporates and have the potential to deprive the farmers of the MSP system,” said Shivajirao Moghe. “We support the farmers’ agitation for the revocation of the laws intended to help the corporate sector controlled by a handful of people,” said DCC president Mirza. Later, a delegation met district collector and submitted a memorandum supporting the farmers’ agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-dharna-in-yavatmal-to-support-farmers-delhi-stir/articleshow/79566806.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain throws life out of gear in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: Incessant rain triggered by cyclone Burevi threw normal life out of gear in several parts of the Nilgiris on Thursday. The regional meteorological centre has warned of strong wind in the district for the next two days.While Kodanadu received the highest rainfall of 25mm for eight hours from 8am to 4pm on the day, Ooty town and Kotagiri registered 17.50mm and 11mm rain, respectively. Coonoor recorded 6mm rain.Except for Gudalur and Pandalur, the remaining four of the six taluks in the district received incessant rain.The rain, which started in the morning, didn’t stop in the day and thick clouds were present over the entire hill retreat. Motorists had a difficult time navigating through the ghat road and Ooty town, which was under the blanket of thick mist. They needed to use fog light.L Murthi, a tourist from Coimbatore, said, “We found it difficult to drive on the Ooty-Kotagiri road because of the thick mist, which hindered our view.”According to revenue officials, no reports of damage were received from across the district. “While it’s raining continuously, it isn’t pouring heavily.”District collector J Innocent Divya said all the precautionary measures have been taken in the district, which doesn’t figure on the cyclone path, to tackle any eventuality. “All the teams are positioned ready. I have instructed the disaster management teams to remain alert. As per the weather forecast, the district will get rain, which will not cause much damage.”She has requested the public not to venture out unnecessarily during the rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-ooty/articleshow/79554515.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Suramangalam police station in Salem among top 10 in country||Salem: The all-woman police station at Suramangalam in the city has been placed second in the list of top 10 police stations in the country. The list was released by the Union home affairs ministry. The first slot went to Manipur state police station.Talking to the media, inspector S P Valarmathi, Suramangalam all-woman police station, said police stations across the country were assessed on parameters such as handling of cases and complaints, and maintenance of station premises and case records for the ranking.“It’s a proud moment for the entire Salem city police. I hope all the police stations in the city would achieve this status in the coming assessments,” she said.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, meanwhile, congratulated the city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar and inspector S P Valarmathi for the achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/suramangalam-police-station-in-salem-among-top-10-in-country/articleshow/79554517.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Coimbatore||Coconut prices dip as supply goes up in Salem||Salem: The coconut price has dipped by Rs 5 in the district, as its arrival to the market from neighbouring districts has increased of late. Merchants expect the prices to go down further in the coming days. D Nethaji, a coconut merchant from Vazhapadi, said the wholesale price had come down to Rs 12-Rs 17 from Rs 17-Rs 22 after cyclone Nivar. “The wholesale price will dip further as the supply has increased. This will reflect in the retail prices too.”While coconut is cultivated extensively at Pollachi in Coimbatore, merchants at Vazhapadi and Jalakandapuram in Salem don’t procure the produce from there because of the high transportation cost. They procure the same from neighbouring Namakkal, Erode and Dharmapuri districts and sent them to other parts of the state and other states such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.There are 50 coconut merchants at Vazhapadi and 20 of them are doing business in a large scale. Jalakandapuram town has nearly 15 large-scale merchants.According to Nethaji, coconut rate set by the merchants at Vazhapadi often reflect the pricing in the entire state. “Nearly one lakh coconuts are arriving at Vazhapadi daily now, compared to less than 50,000 earlier.”K T Muthu Manickam, a coconut merchant from Jalakandapuram, said the supply has overshot the demand. “Wholesale coconut merchants have sufficient stock and they are forced to reduce the price to clear the same without causing them huge losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coconut-prices-dip-as-supply-goes-up-in-salem/articleshow/79554519.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Finally, Telangana government to set up security, cop authority||HYDERABAD: At a time when the Supreme Court has directed states to put in place CCTV cameras at police stations and interrogation rooms, Telangana on Thursday informed the high court that it has prepared guidelines for constituting the state security commission (SSC) and police complaints authority (PCA). SSC will ensure selection and fixed tenure for all police officers, while PCAs will help people aggrieved with police lodge complaints at state and district level. Advocate general B S Prasad conveyed this to a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy that took up the case on its own and had even initiated contempt proceedings against the authorities for dodging the issue for more than a decade. The Supreme Court, in its judgment delivered in the Prakash Singh case, had directed all states in 2006 itself to bring in such a mechanism. The Hyderabad high court also directed both Telangana and AP to put in place this mechanism. The bench had earlier turned critical towards the state and directed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to appear before the court if it did not comply with the court order. The bench was upset with the state because the authorities delayed in issuing GOs for formation of the SSC and PCA. Though it was done after some time later they started making inordinate delay in preparing rules, regulations and guidelines for making the mechanism operational. On Thursday, when the case came up for hearing, the AG informed the bench that the state was ready with the rules. The bench then directed the state to constitute the commission and authorities and make them functional within four weeks. “You have to appoint chairman and members to the SSC and state and district police complaint authorities. Initiate the process immediately,” the bench said and posted the case to January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/finally-t-govt-to-set-up-security-cop-authority/articleshow/79556208.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||12-year-old girl among 3 killed in 2 accidents||Yavatmal: Three people, including a 12-year-old girl, were killed in two accidents that took place in rural parts of Yavatmal district on Wednesday. In the first incident, two persons in a Chennai-bound private travels bus (MH 40/N-0259), carrying over 80 labourers, were killed on the spot after the vehicle rammed a parked tipper lorry near Pimpri village, 1.5km from Pandharkawda on Wednesday morning. The deceased have been identified as Shivkumar Ram Ratan (35), a resident of Kanpur and Siraj Khan (34) a resident of Agra, both from Uttar Pradesh. Four others sustained serious injuries of whom one Ramchandra Mansingh (32) is reportedly critical. All the injured have been admitted to a hospital. Pandharkawda police have started investigation. In another accident, 12-year-old Payal Chandan Gupta died on the spot when the two-wheeler on which she was riding along with her sister rammed a truck near Bham Raja village under Yavatmal rural police station on Wednesday morning. Both the sisters were on their way to tuition classes. Payal’s sister Roshani, 16, sustained injuries and has been admitted to Yavatmal GMC. Her condition is reported to be critical. Yavatmal rural police have started investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/12-year-old-girl-among-3-killed-in-2-accidents/articleshow/79566816.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||ZP teacher’s innovative use of QR codes wins him USD 1 million award||Pune: Ranjitsinh Disale (32), a zilla parishad teacher from Paritewadi in Solapur district, has won the Global Teacher Prize of $1 million for using QR codes while imparting lessons as well as employing various other innovative teaching methods to reduce the school dropout rate, especially among female students.“I will continue to work as a zilla parishad teacher. I would like to share 50% of the prize money with the remaining nine finalists so that they can use it to improve the area in which they work. I will keep 30% of the prize money as an Innovative Teachers Fund to help teachers from across the country who are innovating in different ways, especially in villages and rural areas. I want my win to be useful for the society at large,” Disale said. Earlier, only one or two teachers from India had made it to the top 10 list for the award but nobody had won it, Disale said. “My achievement has been possible because of my students. I would like to celebrate with them on Sunday, taking into account social distancing norms and other precautionary measures,” he said.The teacher also plans to fund his project, ‘Let’s Cross the Borders’, which connects young people from India and Pakistan, Palestine and Israel, Iraq and Iran, as well as US and North Korea. Over six weeks for the past three years, students are matched with a peer from another country to interactively learn about their conflict, understand similarities, build empathy and suggest solutions for peace.Ten teachers from across the globe were shortlisted for the prize last month. Disale was announced as the winner on December 3 at a virtual ceremony from London. His was one among more than 12,000 nominations and applications from over 140 countries around the world. The award was given by the Varkey Foundation, in partnership with UNESCO.“The impact of Ranjitsinh’s interventions has been extraordinary: there are now no teenage marriages in the village and 100% attendance by girls at the school. The school was also recently awarded the best school in the district with 85% of his students achieving ‘A’ grades in annual exams. One girl from the village has now graduated from university, something seen as an impossible dream before Ranjitsinh arrived,” said the official website for the Global Teacher Prize.Disale said, “After we introduced the QR code textbooks at our school in 2016, the state government sent a proposal to the Centre about the usefulness of the technology. A central team visited our school and presented a report. In 2018, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) decided to adopt QR codes in its textbooks.”The page about Disale displayed on Global Teacher Prize website explains his work. It states, “The first school he taught in was in a dilapidated building, sandwiched between a cattle shed and a storeroom. Most of the girls were from tribal communities that did not prioritize their education, and the practice of teenage marriage was common. Additionally, the curriculum was not in the students’ primary language (Kannada), which meant that many students were unable to achieve expected learning outcomes. After putting in a great deal of effort, Ranjitsinh learnt Kannada, and redesigned all the textbooks of grades 1-4 for better comprehension, along with unique QR codes that embedded audio poems, video lectures, stories and assignments in Kannada.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-teachers-innovative-use-of-qr-codes-wins-him-usd-1-million-award/articleshow/79554525.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 4, 2020||Kochi||Temple elephant’s health worsens||Kottayam: The health condition of tusker Thirunakkara Sivan has deteriorated following ‘erandakettu’ (impaction of colon) disease. It has been almost a week since the animal has been fed due to its illness. Since its teeth were in a bad condition it was fed with palm leaves sliced into small pieces. The animal is not having water and is under the observation of Dr Sasindradev. The medical team is trying to restore the elephant’s health by feeding it glucose regularly. It’s the first time that Sivan is suffering from erandakettu. Meanwhile, the absence of the concerned officers of the board is delaying the elephant’s treatment. The manager of Thirunakkara temple is on Sabarimala duty. The deputy commissioner is on leave. Meanwhile, the devotees held a meeting in the presence of Dr Sasindradev. The meeting decided to take all possible steps to save Sivan’s life. President of the temple advisory committee B Gopakumar urged Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) officials not to take a risk with Sivan’s life. He alleged gross ignorance by TDB authorities. Only half the amount of the required glucose is given to the tusker. No authorities have visited to assess its health. The service of the government veterinary doctor should also be utilized, said Gopakumar. Thirunakkara Sivan is a popular and considered one of the most physically-perfect tuskers in captivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/temple-elephants-health-worsens/articleshow/79553202.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Sister Act: Women farmers brave the extremes for a future for young ones||NEW DELHI: Sakhvinder Kaur, 70, had to leave her Gurdaspur farm under the protection of her neighbours after she and her children decided to travel hundreds of kilometres to the Singhu border to participate in the farmers’ protest. For women farmers like her, privacy, hygiene and health are issues of concern at the protest site. Yet they all persevere in their demand to have the new farm laws repealed by the central government. Kaur, who reached the Delhi-Haryana border a few days ago, explained why she had come: “Crop and earning losses lead our farmers to take their own lives. There will be more of these if these new laws stay. We cannot have such a dismal future for our children.” The elderly farmer is ready to suffer some indignities during the protest because “we are fighting for our rights” and “because we have no expectations from this government”. Laabh Kaur too left her farm behind in the care of a relative. The 72-year-old farmer from Sangrur has been at the border for six days now. “My two sons and daughter-in-law have accompanied me. Though I am old and unwell and this place is crowded with men, I feel comfortable because I know this is the only way to get justice. I do not care for myself. All that matters is we get what we want,” said the spunky septuagenarian. Many others, like Kamlesh Antil of Sonipat, member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, have been bringing daily supplies to the protest site. “We take special care of our farmer sisters,” Antil said. “The impact of these farm laws will be severe on them because they have anyone to turn to.” Antil added that there were people who were not afraid of teargas and were even ready to die for the cause. ‘Ready to die’ is, in fact, a common sentiment. A group from Sahnewal held a placard with the word kafan (shroud) written on it on Thursday. “We have come with the kafan on our heads and we vow not to go back until our demands are met,” declared young Mandeep Singh. Gurpreet Ghuggi, Punjabi film comedian and AAP member, spoke at the protest. “When the farmers say that they do not want these laws, why is the government pushing them? Either let the farmers protest peacefully or let them return home in happiness,” he demanded. On Thursday, the sugarcane that some farmers from Lutheri village had called for from their farms arrived. “Sugarcane from 18 acres of our farmlands have come along with a machine to extract the juice. We will distribute it for free among the protestors,” said Pavitra Singh. “We know even so much cane will last only two days, but we guarantee no one will go hungry here.” Food in their stomach, the farmers crowded around Mohammad Shamim’s bicycle. The waistcoat seller, normally present at Police Headquarters in ITO, came to the border to “help the protestors”. “I am doing my bit for their cause by selling them waistcoats at discounted prices,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sister-act-women-farmers-brave-the-extremes-for-a-future-for-young-ones/articleshow/79554572.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||Illegal limestone mining busted in Gir Somnath||Rajkot: A total of 27 cutters, seven generators and five tractors were seized in 11 raids on illegal limestone mining on the outskirts of Ghatvad and Jamvada villages in Gir Somnath district on Wednesday night. The panchayats of Ghatvad and Jamvada villages had complained to the state mines and minerals department in the past about the rampant illegal limestone mining, but to no avail. Then the newly appointed Gir Somnath superintendent of police, Omprakash Jat, on Wednesday night formed teams of Gir Somnath police’s special operation group (SOG) and Gir Somnath local crime branch (LCB) and ordered them to raid the villages. “We raided as many as 11 places and seized the equipment and machineries used in illegal mining and slabs of limestones worth crores of Rupees. However, the exact amount of the seized limestones will be evaluated by the state mines and minerals department,” said K J Chauhan, inspector with Gir Somnath LCB. The police have called a team of the state mines and minerals department for the inspection of the site where SP Jat has personally gone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegal-limestone-mining-busted-in-gir-somnath/articleshow/79553214.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Nizam fund: Heirs say no to panel’s pennies||HYDERABAD: In a fresh twist in the Hyderabad Fund case, some legal heirs of the last Nizam of Hyderabad, Mir Osman Ali Khan, have refused to depose before an expert committee to distribute a small portion of the fund. The committee was proposed by Mukarram Jah, the titular nizam of Hyderabad and one of the beneficiaries of the fund. The legal heirs argue that presenting themselves before a panel to lay claim on a minuscule portion of the fund is insulting. They are supposed to prove before the panel that they are the descendants of Mir Osman Ali Khan. Hyderabad Fund or Nizam’s money case relates to 35 million pounds (Rs 346 crore at current exchange rate) locked up in a London bank for over seven decades. The fund (originally 1 million pounds) was transferred by Nizam’s then finance minister to the account of the Pakistan high commissioner in the UK in September 1948. It grew to 35 million pounds over the years. Last year, the London High Court ruled that the money belonged to India, Nizam’s grandsons Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah, and the administrator to the estate of the Nizam VII. Mukarram Jah had announced that he was parting with four lakh pounds (Rs 3.96 crore crore at current exchange rates) to the administrator for distribution among other legal heirs. An expert panel was proposed for distributing the money among about 120 descendants. Nizam’s another grandson Najaf Ali Khan, who represents 116 legal heirs, told TOI that Mukarram Jah is not the successor to the Nizam VII and, hence, does not have the right to allocate a part of the fund for them. “Mukarram Jah, who is projecting an image of being just and trying to show a generous nature, has crushed our rightful share in the 35 million pounds by giving away only 400,000 pounds. It’s like he has eaten away our share first and then given us pennies to show false generosity,” Najaf Ali Khan said. He said: “We have written a letter to the judge (UK court) regarding the assigned amount, stating that Mukarram Jah is not Nizam VIII or successor to Nizam VII in any capacity. Hence, we are not entitled to any such amount assigned by him and therefore cannot accept it. Regarding our entitlement in the Nizam VII estate as per Islamic principles, which the administrator has failed to keep for the beneficiaries of the Nizam VII, the distribution would have been as per the Mahomedan law.” He said his legal team, comprising senior counsel RB Singhal, Nilofer Khan and Anjum Parvez, were looking at all angles to file cases. Najaf Ali also said Mukarram Jah was aware who the legal descendants were. “On several occasions in Nizam Trust matters, Mukarram Jah represented the family. One such example is that he represented the beneficiaries of Nizam VII as being a part of the family in Nizam Jewellery Trust case against the Union of India in Supreme Court in 1970s,” he said, adding there was no need for the heirs to appear before the panel to prove their lineage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-fund-heirs-say-no-to-panels-pennies/articleshow/79556209.cms||Syed Akbar
December 4, 2020||Kochi||Drone solicits votes for this CPM candidate||KOTTAYAM: Residents of an apartment complex here had a unique experience while meeting a candidate during the election campaign. As the residents stood on the balconies and waved out to the candidate, a drone carrying a banner displaying the candidate’s request to cast their vote for him flew towards them. With Covid still being a threat, this innovative idea was a win-win for the candidate as well as the residents. Jiby John, the CPM candidate in ward 16 of Kottayam municipality, carried out the novel campaigning with the help of his friend and videographer Sooraj who floated this idea. Since several flat complexes are located in this ward, other candidates too are planning to take up the drone tactic in the few remaining days for polling. “My friend’s idea was great and it worked out well. But don’t know whether I can repeat this campaign in other flats in the ward,” said John. Sooraj, who provided the drone for his friend’s campaign, feels that drones will have a bigger role in future election campaigns. “One should ensure that they get clearance from police while using drones in big cities and towns,” he said. Lighter drones used within the premises of residential flats won’t have legal hassles, provided the residents’ association agrees to such campaigning,” he added. There is a possibility that one of the residents supporting a rival candidate complains that drones are breaching his or her privacy, he said. However, in this case the residents’ association of Jewel Sonata in Manganam fully appreciated the novel idea. Shibu Varghese, the secretary of the residents association, welcomed the move. “Residents of flats, especially the elderly, have very little public contacts in their region. They want to meet the candidates and want to develop a good rapport with them so that they could discuss their issues. However, Covid pandemic has developed a fear in all,” he said. John had sought permission from the residents’ association who allotted a time slot for his visit. Accordingly, the residents too were informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/drone-solicits-votes-for-this-cpm-candidate/articleshow/79553216.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||PD Act against 3 chain snatchers||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police invoked PD Act against three persons who were arrested previously for being involved in 11 chain snatching cases. They are currently in Cherlapally jail. The accused are residents of Hayathnagar. All three of them ave up studies after 10 th standard. They target women who walk alone on the streets and snatch chains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-against-3-chain-snatchers/articleshow/79554570.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Man who peeks out of minivan’s window to spit, gets his head crushed||BAREILLY: A 57-year-old man, a farmer, who peeked out of a window of the minivan he was travelling in to spit paan masala died after he got his head crushed by sugarcane stalks loaded on a tractor-trolley in Sahaswan area of Budaun district on Wednesday. The accident took place around 10 pm when victim Bhoopram — a resident of Kariyaben village in Zareefnagar area of Budaun — was on his way home along with his unwell daughter-in-law Manju Devi after visiting a doctor at a local hospital. “I fell asleep at the back seat of the vehicle and woke up to my father-in-law’s screams. He was doused in blood and lost his consciousness soon. The driver rushed us to a hospital in the vehicle, but my father-in-law died during the treatment. He was hit by sugarcane stalks laden on a tractor-trolley while spitting tobacco outside the van,” said Manju. Sahaswan police station SHO Rajeev Sharma said, “We were informed by the emergency medical officer of the district hospital. By the time local outpost in-charge visited the victim, he had died. The body was sent for autopsy. We informed Bhoopram’s son, who works in another district, about the accident.” “Police handed over the body to the victim’s family and his son gave us in writing that he did not want action against anyone. The mini-van driver, too, claimed that the accident took place when the victim was peeking out of the window to spit pan masala.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-who-peeks-out-of-minivans-window-to-spit-paan-masala-gets-his-head-crushed/articleshow/79552114.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Three in custody for trespassing||Hyderabad: Three persons were taken into custody by Madhapur police after they allegedly trespassed into an apartment late on Wednesday night. The apartment association in their complaint said that accused were drunk and created nuisance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-in-custody-for-trespassing/articleshow/79554573.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||GST fraud: Fake invoices worth Rs 14 crore unearthed||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of the ongoing drive of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) against the entire network of GST evaders, the Thiruvananthapuram central GST commissionerate has unearthed malpractices worth close to Rs 14 crore by two business houses run by a businessman. According to the GST commissionerate authorities here, the owner of Zigma International Networking Private Ltd and Zigma Solutions was arrested here on Tuesday and the economic offences court has remanded the accused and further investigation was in progress. It was found that the companies owned by the individual generated fake purchase bills with a fraudulent intention and claimed input tax credit for the fake purchases made between two entities. The practice is said to be one of the major frauds reported from across the country ever since the introduction of GST tax regime. Under the input tax credit facility, a manufacturer of a goods can claim the tax paid for the purchase of raw materials and the tax thus claimed can be deducted against the outward tax to be paid by that entity. However, fraudsters indulge in circular trade between companies by raising fake invoices, thus adulterating the data for various purposes. Fake input tax claims are often generated to mislead banks with bogus financial health. “The managing director of Zigma International Networking Private Ltd and Zigma Solutions has indulged in circular trading between the two entities by issuing invoices without actual supply of goods and availed input tax involving GST of about Rs 12 cr. In the process, evasion of GST cumulatively amounting to Rs 1.95 crore by the two companies were also detected,” authorities said. Thiruvananthapuram zone has so far detected cases involving ineligible input tax credit of around Rs 30 crore and three persons have been arrested in this connection so far. The offences relating to false claim of input tax are liable for punishment under Section 132 (1) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Act 2017. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gst-fraud-fake-invoices-worth-rs-14cr-unearthed/articleshow/79553247.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops facilitate organ transport||Hyderabad: Hyderabad traffic police on Thursday facilitated the transport of live organs (lungs) by providing a green channel to the ambulance carrying the organs. According to Anil Kumar, ACP, traffic, “Hyderabad traffic police arranged a green channel for transportation of live organs from Virinchi Hospital, Banjara Hills, Hyderabad to KIMS Hospital, Begumpet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-facilitate-organ-transport/articleshow/79554576.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As sanitation crisis looms at dharna sites, corporation deploys special teams||NEW DELHI: The dharna by farmers at the borders has become a serious cause for concern for the municipal corporations. As the protesters have not been allowed to enter Delhi for the past one week, cooking and langars are a common sight at Singhu and Tikri borders. With the leftovers often being dumped on the roadsides or central verges, a sanitation crisis seems to be looming in the area. Officials of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, however, claimed that they had deployed special teams for cleaning and lifting of garbage multiple times during the day at both the borders. “Last week, we had deployed 60 sanitation workers, two suction-cum-jetting machines, three auto tippers and five huge bins with separate compartments for biodegradable and recyclable waste at the Nirankari Samagam ground in Burari. But after a majority of farmers refused to shift there, we decided to make similar arrangements at both the borders falling within our jurisdiction,” said a north corporation official. The sanitation teams have reportedly been working in three shifts without any break. “They have been provided trucks, tippers and carts for lifting garbage from the langar sites. Sanitation workers are also regularly sweeping the area. Senior officials are making random visits to the sites to check the status,” said the official. However, a visit by TOI to Singhu border laid bare the claims of the corporation officials. Many farmers complained that there was no provision of water supply in the toilets and the area was not being cleaned. Gurvinder Singh Namdhari, the pradhan of a village in Barnala district in Punjab, said many farmers from his settlement had arrived there in trolleys on November 26. “Our vehicles are parked on the other side of the border. In the initial days, things were fine. But later there was no water supply in the washrooms. We had to ask locals for help. Even sweeping is not being done in the area,” he added. An official, however, claimed that they had placed 17-18 toilets at Singhu border. “Most of them are placed near the toll plaza and cleaned regularly. They have regular water supply. Similar arrangements have been made at Tikri border,” he added. “As far as sweeping is concerned, our staff can’t go inside the barricaded sites. However, they have been lifting garbage from the central verges and roadsides. Staffers from the engineering department are present at the site for making necessary arrangements,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-sanitation-crisis-looms-at-dharna-sites-corpn-deploys-special-teams/articleshow/79554605.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 4, 2020||Rajkot||‘Many bus travellers coming to Jamnagar nCov infected’||Rajkot: After a spurt in fresh Covid-19 positive cases, the Jamnagar district administration has found that the maximum number of infected persons were passengers using the state transport bus services. “It was found that as many as 13 Covid-19 cases were bus travellers who had come to Jamnagar during the festival season of Diwali from Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Junagadh,” said an official from the Jamnagar district administration. “Of these cases, three each were from Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Junagadh. Hence, we are making a public appeal, urging people to undergo Covid-19 test after coming from a journey. We also request people to tell their guests to undergo the test,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/many-bus-travellers-coming-to-jamnagar-ncov-infected/articleshow/79553240.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||UT likely to begin exams for classes III to XII from December 15||CHANDIGARH: The UT education department has released tentative schedule for terminal examinations for classes III to XII. According to the schedule, the exams will be conducted in offline as well as online mode for classes IX to XII. The mode will be as per the consent of the parents. The exams will begin from December 15. For classes III to VIII, the exams will be conducted online. Schools have been asked to compile the result by December 30. A letter issued to the schools states that, “It is intimated that in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, conducting terminal examinations for classes III to XII for the academic session 2020-21 was discussed by the committee formed under the chairpersonship of the undersigned. All the principals and heads of government schools are directed to ensure conducting exams for the current session for various classes in December as per the following guidelines.” According to the guidelines, “The terminal examination will be held in December 2020, which will tentatively start from December 15, 2020 for Classes III to XII. The examinations for classes III to XII can be held in online mode and for classes IX to XII it can be conducted in online or offline depending on the consent of parents.” Regarding question paper it has been stated that, “The date-sheets and question papers will be framed by the schools concerned. The latest pattern of question papers for classes IX to XII, issued by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), will be circulated by the subject committees to students. The result will be compiled by December 30, 2020.” All the principals and heads have been asked to ensure that SOPs or guidelines issued by the ministry of human resource department (MHRD) should be strictly followed. The guidelines and dates of the exams have, however, not gone down well with teachers as these indicate that there will be no winter break for teachers. A teacher requesting anonymity said, “Ever since the pandemic hit the city, we have been working 24X7 and now we will not even get winter break. The dates given by the education department for the terminal exams indicate the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-likely-to-begin-exams-for-classes-iii-to-xii-from-dec-15/articleshow/79553225.cms||Kamini Mehta
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Loans given to disabled: Kavitha||Hyderabad: TRS MLC K Kavitha said the state government has enhanced the job quota to 4% for differently-abled persons so that they get opportunities in the job sector.“To ensure that the disabled become entrepreneurs, self-employment loans are being provided,” she said and added that a park for differently abled persons was established in Hyderabad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loans-given-to-disabled-kavitha/articleshow/79554612.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Shatabdi back on track from today||CHANDIGARH: The Northern Railway has decided to restore the operations of New Delhi-Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express from Friday. The train’s services were suspended in March due to the Covid-19 pandemic and were later discontinued due to the agitation by farmers. “A notification in this regard has been issued by the Northern Railway after getting a nod from the ministry of the railways,” said divisional railway manager (DRM) G M Singh. He said the 12011/12012 New Delhi-Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express has been restored from December 4 onwards. He said, “The other trains i.e. 12005/12006 Kalka-New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express and Chandigarh-Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi Express will remain on hold till further orders. These trains will also be restored once we are satisfied with the occupancy of the New Delhi-Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express.” The train number 12011 departs New Delhi at 7.40 am and reaches Chandigarh at 11.05 am and further commences its journey to reach Kalka at 11.45 am. The other trains i.e. 02925 Bandra-Chandigarh-Amritsar Pashchim Express will be short terminated at Chandigarh and consequently the 02926 Amritsar-Chandigarh-Bandra Terminus Express will originate from Chandigarh as this train will remain cancelled between Chandigarh and Amritsar. However, Jan Shatabdi Express, Lucknow-Chandigarh Sadbhawna Express, pilgrimage train Daulatput Chowk-Chandigarh-Jaipur Intercity Express remains unchanged. Two more trains have been resumed, which run weekly and biweekly. It is Chandigarh-Gorakhpur Express and Chandigarh-Patliputra Express.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shatabdi-back-on-track-from-today/articleshow/79553242.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 4, 2020||Pune||Demand for special allowance for civic staff who worked during lockdown||Pune: The Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should pay a special allowance of Rs 150 per day to employees who have worked during the Covid-19 pandemic. The payment can be made on basis of attendance of staff, including contractual workers, during the peak of Covid-19. The period of 65 days of lockdown should be considered for paying the remuneration, representatives of both the parties said. According to the civic body, around 12,000 people, including conservancy staff, worked throughout the lockdown period. “These staff members have worked in controlling the pandemic in adverse and life-threatening situations. Non-availability of food and transport for reaching their workplaces were major concerns for them,” said Deepali Dhumal, leader of opposition in PMC. “Many governing bodies, including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, have given green signal for paying special allowances. The PMC should also take steps in this direction. It will send a good message to the society and among those who worked during testing times,” said Ulhas (Aba) Bagul, leader of the Congress in PMC. These leaders have submitted a letter of demand to the civic chief, stating that those who have worked from March to July should receive the allowance. As per PMC officials, the staff of the health department, solid waste management department, water department and drainage department worked during the lockdown. Apart from them, principals of schools, teachers and non-teaching staff were also involved in Covid-19 mitigation work. They were involved in activities like conducting surveys. “Apart from Covid-19 work, the staff members were also involved in emergency work,” said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demand-for-special-allowance-for-civic-staff-who-worked-during-lockdown/articleshow/79554652.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 positivity rate now under 5%, cases below 4,000||NEW DELHI: The capital reported 3,734 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours while the positivity rate dropped further to 4.9% on Thursday, indicating an ebbing of the third wave of the pandemic. However, the death toll, which stood at 82 for the second consecutive day, continues to pose a challenge. Delhi’s positivity rate was 5% on Wednesday and the daily case count stood at 3,944. The city currently has 29,120 active cases, with the recovery rate being higher than the infection. Delhi has reported 5.8 lakh cases, out of which 5.4 lakh people have recovered while 9,424 patients had died. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.9% while the same rate for fatality is 1.6%. Delhi, which saw a surge in Covid cases last month, is conducting a sizeable number of tests daily for early detection and the count stood at 75,230 across the 11 districts on Thursday. It included 33,298 RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard, and 41,932 rapid antigen tests. “The huge increase in the number of tests has been key to controlling Covid because more tests lead to the screening of more and more individuals and, thus, detection of infection,” said an official. “The early detection of infection leads to immediate treatment and tracing of contacts and isolation, which, in turn, checks further spread of the virus,” he added. In the recent months, Delhi government has increased the number of RT-PCR tests from 10,000 to 15,000 to 30,000 to 36,000 as it is more accurate and, hence, more reliable than rapid antigen tests. More than 65 lakh Covid tests have been conducted in the capital till now. According to Thursday’s health bulletin, 11,734 Covid beds are vacant out of the total 18,719 and 6,985 are occupied. The city also has 17,790 patients in home isolation and around 600 in Covid care centres. As part of an elaborate containment effort, Delhi government has increased the number of containment zones to 5,759 — the highest in the city. To streamline the process for vaccination, chief secretary Vijay Dev held a meeting on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-positivity-rate-now-under-5-cases-below-4k/articleshow/79554660.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||70% health workers in Pune Metropolitan Region sign up for Covid-19 shots||PUNE: As many as 76,822 (70%) of the estimated 1.09 lakh healthcare workers have so far volunteered to receive the Covid-19 vaccine in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR). Among the healthcare workers are medical and non-medical staffers associated with both the public and private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural parts. Registration figures revealed that the response towards the vaccination was higher in the rural parts than that in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. An official from the Pune zilla parishad’s health department said of the 24,248 healthcare workers identified from the rural areas, around 21,000 have signed up for receiving the vaccine. District health officer Bhagwan Pawar said Pune has 14,887 healthcare workers, including anganwadi teachers and community health staffers, in the government sector.Besides, around 7,000 of the 9,371 private healthcare workers have signed up for the vaccination drive. Amit Shaha, city immunization officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), told TOI that data of around 43,000 healthcare workers, both from the government and private sectors, have been collected. “There are around 3,962 healthcare workers from the civic hospitals. The deadline for signing up for the vaccination is over,” he said. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) health department has so far identified 12,222 healthcare workers from the civic and private hospitals as the priority vaccine recipients. PCMC medical officer Varsha Dange said 2,527 of the identified priority recipients were from the government sector and 9,695 were from the private facilities. They would sign up for the vaccination till December 7. PCMC additional health chief Pavan Salve said they were still awaiting clear instructions from the state government on whom to include as a healthcare worker. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI that the estimated number of healthcare workers in the civic limits could go up to 25,000. A sizeable chunk of healthcare workers in the region has not yet registered their names for vaccination. Atul Desale, associate professor of community medicine at Dr DY Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, said, “Unless we have 100% results for the vaccine and its success rate, I will have doubts about getting inoculated. If the virus is under control, then there is a little possibility that the vaccination could totally eradicate it.” Aundh-based homeopath Rutika Khelkar said she too would refrain from getting vaccinated and rather improve her personal lifestyle, practise better social distancing and wear mask. Sanjay Patil, vice-president of the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) state branch, said, “Currently, there is no definitive drug for Covid. Our reliance is obviously more on vaccines. But quite a few doctors are unwilling to take the vaccine for reasons ranging from past exposure, reservations about transparency, safety and efficacy.” The IMA has 5,800 member doctors in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and the rural areas. “Though most are willing to get vaccinated, a few are definitely hesitant,” Patil said. The Association of Physicians of India’s Pune branch, has extended full support to the vaccination drive among healtcare workers. “All our 350 members have registered for Covid vaccination,” said senior physician Mukund Penurkar, secretary of the API’s Pune branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-health-workers-in-pmr-sign-up-for-covid-19-shots/articleshow/79554621.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Dog beaten to death in Hyderabad's AWHO||HYDERABAD: A dog has been allegedly beaten to death in Hyderabad’s Army Welfare Housing Organization (AWHO) colony’s sector B earlier this week. The incident was brought to light after one of the residents who was caring for the dogs in the colony filed a complaint with the police on Thursday. Speaking to TOI, Vaidehi Acharya, an animal lover who was feeding the dogs in the colony said, “The dog was found lying dead, next to a car in the colony, with multiple injuries and bleeding from the mouth. We were informed about the incident by one of the residents, but the dog had already been buried by the time we reached.” Vaidehi Acharya, Prithvi Ravishankar and Varun Chhabria are the other animal lovers who were taking turns to feed the stray dogs after a tenant Aparajita Singh who was caring for the dogs had to leave the city for a few days. Aparijita also got the dogs neutered and vaccinated before she left the city to ensure the dogs are safe. Sanjana Raheja, another animal lover said, “The president of the colony’s association Retd Col KKD Prasad had warned people against feeding or caring for the street dogs. Those of us who were feeding the dogs also had a word with the president a day before the dog was beaten to death. We promised him that we would get the puppies adopted. While we managed to get one adopted, the other two mysteriously went missing. He had assured us that he wouldn’t harm the dogs.” “The mother dog got ferocious and bit two to three people after the puppies went missing,” said Sanjana. The people of the colony had informed this group of animal lovers that around seven people were bitten, but based on enquiries made by animal activists, two people had been bitten. When contacted Retd Col KKD Prasad for a comment, a woman who did not want to be identified answered the call and said, “He is not available at the moment,” before hanging up. In audio recordings accessed by TOI from animal rights activists, Col KKD Prasad could be heard saying, “I put it in the mail, the dog lovers are there, they are ready to protect the dogs. They will keep doing their job but for your (colony residents) protection, I can’t do anything so carry a stick and beat the dog whenever you see.” A complaint has been filed by Varun Chhabria at Karkhana Police Station. He said, “I went to the Karkhana Police Station and had a word with the concerned police. They have assured me that a case will be registered.” Meanwhile, the group that was feeding the dogs in the colony is now on the lookout for a home or a farmhouse that would be willing to adopt the remaining two dogs from the colony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dog-beaten-to-death-in-awho/articleshow/79554655.cms||Moulika.KV
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||DM writes to ASI to preserve rich cultural heritage of Rampur's Raza Library, fort area||Rampur: To protect and preserve the renowned Raza Library, Rampur's district magistrate (DM) Aunjaneya Kumar Singh has sent a letter to the office of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The historical building of Raza Library - established in 1774 - hosts one of the richest collections of rare manuscripts, books, paintings and objects of art of the past. It has several thousand manuscripts in English, Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu, Persian, Pashto, Arabic and Turkish language. The library comes under the Union ministry of culture. The DM, who also holds the additional charge of the library's director, said, "Raza Library and its rare ancient and medieval manuscripts, books, artefacts are the symbols of our rich cultural heritage. Apart from the Raza Library, the Rampur fort complex needs to be preserved by ASI.” He said, "We are taking steps to introduce the Rampur Raza Library on the global tourism map. Once it becomes a tourist destination, it will boost the district's economy." In 2013, during the Samajwadi Party-led government, senior leader Azam Khan had asked the then DM to demolish the walls and gates of the Rampur fort, but the local court had intervened in the matter. In a letter written by Azam to the then Rampur collector, he had stated, "The fort's gates are in a dilapidated condition and can lead to an accident at any moment. Since these gates are neither of any historical significance nor symbols of honour, an inspection should be conducted by the PWD and they be pulled down if required without delay.” The former minister had also said that the "fort, situated in the heart of Rampur, is spoiling the city’s beauty by blocking sunlight”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-writes-to-asi-to-preserve-rich-cultural-heritage-of-rampurs-raza-library-fort-area/articleshow/79551550.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra under control now: Health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the state was currently under control with the positivity rate and the case fatality rate reducing, but it could change in the last week of December. “We need to increase the testing and ensure that the triple Ts — testing, tracking and treatment — are continued with adhering to the social distancing norms. We have to be careful during the last week of December,” he said. The positivity rate across the state has come down off late. Tope termed it a “good sign”. Many districts like Pune and Jalna are reporting less than 10% positivity rate. It was 8.3% in Pune on Wednesday. “The daily positivity rate in the state has been in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% over the last 10 days. We have managed to bring it below 10%, but the criterion is to get it below 5%,” said the minister. Stressing on more testing in the state, Tope said every local authority should push for it. “Testing has gone down, and all laboratories need to scale up testing,” he told TOI. The minister iterated that introducing curbs in case people did not adhere to norms was the only way forward when the unlock process was on. The state recorded 5,600 fresh cases on Wednesday as opposed to 5,027 recoveries. On Thursday, there were 5,182 fresh cases, while 8,066 people recovered. The state’s overall recovery rate was 92.7% and the case fatality rate was 2.58%, said a health official. The total case tally now stood at 18,37,358. The number of active cases is 85,535. The state’s tally of recoveries has touched 17,03,274. Of a total of 1,10,59,305 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,37,358 (case positivity rate of 16.61%) have returned positive in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/situation-in-state-under-control-now-health-minister/articleshow/79557378.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra under control now: Health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the state was currently under control with the positivity rate and the case fatality rate reducing, but it could change in the last week of December. “We need to increase the testing and ensure that the triple Ts — testing, tracking and treatment — are continued with adhering to the social distancing norms. We have to be careful during the last week of December,” he said. The positivity rate across the state has come down off late. Tope termed it a “good sign”. Many districts like Pune and Jalna are reporting less than 10% positivity rate. It was 8.3% in Pune on Wednesday. “The daily positivity rate in the state has been in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% over the last 10 days. We have managed to bring it below 10%, but the criterion is to get it below 5%,” said the minister. Stressing on more testing in the state, Tope said every local authority should push for it. “Testing has gone down, and all laboratories need to scale up testing,” he told TOI. The minister iterated that introducing curbs in case people did not adhere to norms was the only way forward when the unlock process was on. The state recorded 5,600 fresh cases on Wednesday as opposed to 5,027 recoveries. On Thursday, there were 5,182 fresh cases, while 8,066 people recovered. The state’s overall recovery rate was 92.7% and the case fatality rate was 2.58%, said a health official. The total case tally now stood at 18,37,358. The number of active cases is 85,535. The state’s tally of recoveries has touched 17,03,274. Of a total of 1,10,59,305 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,37,358 (case positivity rate of 16.61%) have returned positive in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/situation-in-state-under-control-now-health-minister/articleshow/79557379.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra under control now: Health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the state was currently under control with the positivity rate and the case fatality rate reducing, but it could change in the last week of December. “We need to increase the testing and ensure that the triple Ts — testing, tracking and treatment — are continued with adhering to the social distancing norms. We have to be careful during the last week of December,” he said. The positivity rate across the state has come down off late. Tope termed it a “good sign”. Many districts like Pune and Jalna are reporting less than 10% positivity rate. It was 8.3% in Pune on Wednesday. “The daily positivity rate in the state has been in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% over the last 10 days. We have managed to bring it below 10%, but the criterion is to get it below 5%,” said the minister. Stressing on more testing in the state, Tope said every local authority should push for it. “Testing has gone down, and all laboratories need to scale up testing,” he told TOI. The minister iterated that introducing curbs in case people did not adhere to norms was the only way forward when the unlock process was on. The state recorded 5,600 fresh cases on Wednesday as opposed to 5,027 recoveries. On Thursday, there were 5,182 fresh cases, while 8,066 people recovered. The state’s overall recovery rate was 92.7% and the case fatality rate was 2.58%, said a health official. The total case tally now stood at 18,37,358. The number of active cases is 85,535. The state’s tally of recoveries has touched 17,03,274. Of a total of 1,10,59,305 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,37,358 (case positivity rate of 16.61%) have returned positive in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/situation-in-state-under-control-now-health-minister/articleshow/79554669.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Owner seeks police, social media help to trace dognappers in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Three days after a male German Shepherd was stolen from a house in Santosh Nagar by a two-member gang that came on a two-wheeler, the pet owner Shalika Vadugula is seeking the help of social media and the police to trace the dog named Willy Wonka. CCTV footage recorded on Tuesday night confirmed two people escaping with the dog. The pet owner suspects the miscreants could be illegal breeders or someone with good experience in handling dogs as they were able to lure and befriend a German Shepherd that is not used to interacting with strangers. “It looks like the people who took away my dog had meticulously surveyed the area where my house is located and also knew where my dog sits. It is not easy to just walk in and take a fully grown German Shepherd dog unless they are professional dog handlers or illegal breeders. Our neighbours have seen them come to the first floor of the building where we live and then walk away with the dog in no time,” said Shalika. The family is currently sharing missing posters of the dog on social media platforms and approached Kanchanbagh police, who have accepted the complaint and made an entry in the Community Service Register. “We are investigating the case and trying to trace the people who took the dog. The CCTV footage does not show towards which side of the road these people escaped. We will have to see if there is more evidence that can lead us to the culprits,” said Anil Kumar, sub-inspector, Kanchanbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owner-seeks-police-social-media-help-to-trace-dognappers/articleshow/79554690.cms||Moulika.KV
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||Man booked for rape fortnight after committing crime following SP's order||Pilibhit: A 28-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a 30-year-old man on November 16 at her parents’ house in a village under Barkhera police station, but police booked him on Thursday following the order of superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav.The victim’s mother stated in her complaint that her daughter was married in a village under Bisalpur kotwali four years ago, but had been staying with her for the past two months owing to prolonged illness. “My husband and I had gone to my brother’s place on Bhai Dooj and our daughter was alone at home. The accused, Roshan Lal (30), barged into our house by scaling the courtyard wall and raped my daughter,” alleged the mother. “The accused threatened my daughter that he would kill all family members if she disclosed the matter to anyone and fled the house,” alleged the mother, adding that when they reach home the next morning, their daughter narrated her ordeal to them. Barkhera SHO Kamal Singh said the accused was booked under sections 457 (lurking house-trespass by night in order to commit offence), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation), and the woman was sent to the district women hospital in Pilibhit for a medical examination.The accused is absconding, but he would be arrested soon, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-rape-fortnight-after-committing-crime-following-sps-order/articleshow/79552224.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra under control now: Health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the state was currently under control with the positivity rate and the case fatality rate reducing, but it could change in the last week of December. “We need to increase the testing and ensure that the triple Ts — testing, tracking and treatment — are continued with adhering to the social distancing norms. We have to be careful during the last week of December,” he said. The positivity rate across the state has come down off late. Tope termed it a “good sign”. Many districts like Pune and Jalna are reporting less than 10% positivity rate. It was 8.3% in Pune on Wednesday. “The daily positivity rate in the state has been in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% over the last 10 days. We have managed to bring it below 10%, but the criterion is to get it below 5%,” said the minister. Stressing on more testing in the state, Tope said every local authority should push for it. “Testing has gone down, and all laboratories need to scale up testing,” he told TOI. The minister iterated that introducing curbs in case people did not adhere to norms was the only way forward when the unlock process was on. The state recorded 5,600 fresh cases on Wednesday as opposed to 5,027 recoveries. On Thursday, there were 5,182 fresh cases, while 8,066 people recovered. The state’s overall recovery rate was 92.7% and the case fatality rate was 2.58%, said a health official. The total case tally now stood at 18,37,358. The number of active cases is 85,535. The state’s tally of recoveries has touched 17,03,274. Of a total of 1,10,59,305 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,37,358 (case positivity rate of 16.61%) have returned positive in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/situation-in-state-under-control-now-health-minister/articleshow/79557381.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra under control now: Health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the Covid-19 situation in the state was currently under control with the positivity rate and the case fatality rate reducing, but it could change in the last week of December. “We need to increase the testing and ensure that the triple Ts — testing, tracking and treatment — are continued with adhering to the social distancing norms. We have to be careful during the last week of December,” he said. The positivity rate across the state has come down off late. Tope termed it a “good sign”. Many districts like Pune and Jalna are reporting less than 10% positivity rate. It was 8.3% in Pune on Wednesday. “The daily positivity rate in the state has been in the range of 6.5% to 7.5% over the last 10 days. We have managed to bring it below 10%, but the criterion is to get it below 5%,” said the minister. Stressing on more testing in the state, Tope said every local authority should push for it. “Testing has gone down, and all laboratories need to scale up testing,” he told TOI. The minister iterated that introducing curbs in case people did not adhere to norms was the only way forward when the unlock process was on. The state recorded 5,600 fresh cases on Wednesday as opposed to 5,027 recoveries. On Thursday, there were 5,182 fresh cases, while 8,066 people recovered. The state’s overall recovery rate was 92.7% and the case fatality rate was 2.58%, said a health official. The total case tally now stood at 18,37,358. The number of active cases is 85,535. The state’s tally of recoveries has touched 17,03,274. Of a total of 1,10,59,305 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,37,358 (case positivity rate of 16.61%) have returned positive in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/situation-in-state-under-control-now-health-minister/articleshow/79557382.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra to allocate Rs 43 lakh for installing cold storage units||PUNE: The Maharashtra government will allocate Rs43 lakh through the National Health Mission for installing cold storage units across the state to stock up Covid-19 vaccines. Though the Centre would provide eight districts, including Pune, with walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers by December and January, health department officials stated that the state would use the National Health Mission funds for the installation of the units. “Once the funds are sanctioned, we will start preparing for the units. This process should be completed by mid-December. The units will be installed at the existing regional vaccine centres in Pune, Aurangabad, Latur, Nagpur, Akola, Nashik, Kolhapur and Thane,” a state health department official said. DN Patil, Maharashtra immunisation officer and the nodal authority for the vaccination drive roll-out in the state, said, “We have sought funds from the National Health Mission of the state for the installation of the units. We have to ensure basic infrastructure before the Centre dispatches the units.” All states in the country have been told to prepare the cold chain management and last-mile delivery plans and the lists of frontline workers to be vaccinated first. Maharashtra would get six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. The walk-in coolers would maintain temperatures at 2-8ºC. This is the usual temperature maintained for vaccines, including that of polio. The walk-in freezers can maintain -15ºC to -25ºC. Public health expert Dr R Jotkar, however, said such limited numbers of cold storage units might not suffice the state’s need considering the huge number of vaccine beneficiaries from the government and the private sectors. “The government should not compromise on the issue. The cold storage units are essential to ensure proper vaccine storage.” The Maharashtra health department will prepare the list of healthcare workers for priority vaccination by December 6. “We should be able to update the data related to the frontline workers, both from the government and private sectors, and the senior citizens with comorbidities on the app,” a health official said. So far, 98% of healthcare workers from the public sector and 75% from the private sector have been registered for vaccination. A government official said the process was on to identify the vaccinators, including medical interns and students and auxiliary nurse midwives, in different districts. Technical adviser to the state government Dr Subhash Salunkhe told TOI that one of the vaccines currently developed should get authorization by the end of January for the roll-out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-to-allocate-rs-43l-for-installing-cold-storage-units/articleshow/79560189.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra to allocate Rs 43 lakh for installing cold storage units||PUNE: The Maharashtra government will allocate Rs43 lakh through the National Health Mission for installing cold storage units across the state to stock up Covid-19 vaccines. Though the Centre would provide eight districts, including Pune, with walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers by December and January, health department officials stated that the state would use the National Health Mission funds for the installation of the units. “Once the funds are sanctioned, we will start preparing for the units. This process should be completed by mid-December. The units will be installed at the existing regional vaccine centres in Pune, Aurangabad, Latur, Nagpur, Akola, Nashik, Kolhapur and Thane,” a state health department official said. DN Patil, Maharashtra immunisation officer and the nodal authority for the vaccination drive roll-out in the state, said, “We have sought funds from the National Health Mission of the state for the installation of the units. We have to ensure basic infrastructure before the Centre dispatches the units.” All states in the country have been told to prepare the cold chain management and last-mile delivery plans and the lists of frontline workers to be vaccinated first. Maharashtra would get six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. The walk-in coolers would maintain temperatures at 2-8ºC. This is the usual temperature maintained for vaccines, including that of polio. The walk-in freezers can maintain -15ºC to -25ºC. Public health expert Dr R Jotkar, however, said such limited numbers of cold storage units might not suffice the state’s need considering the huge number of vaccine beneficiaries from the government and the private sectors. “The government should not compromise on the issue. The cold storage units are essential to ensure proper vaccine storage.” The Maharashtra health department will prepare the list of healthcare workers for priority vaccination by December 6. “We should be able to update the data related to the frontline workers, both from the government and private sectors, and the senior citizens with comorbidities on the app,” a health official said. So far, 98% of healthcare workers from the public sector and 75% from the private sector have been registered for vaccination. A government official said the process was on to identify the vaccinators, including medical interns and students and auxiliary nurse midwives, in different districts. Technical adviser to the state government Dr Subhash Salunkhe told TOI that one of the vaccines currently developed should get authorization by the end of January for the roll-out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-to-allocate-rs-43l-for-installing-cold-storage-units/articleshow/79560194.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra to allocate Rs 43 lakh for installing cold storage units||PUNE: The Maharashtra government will allocate Rs43 lakh through the National Health Mission for installing cold storage units across the state to stock up Covid-19 vaccines. Though the Centre would provide eight districts, including Pune, with walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers by December and January, health department officials stated that the state would use the National Health Mission funds for the installation of the units. “Once the funds are sanctioned, we will start preparing for the units. This process should be completed by mid-December. The units will be installed at the existing regional vaccine centres in Pune, Aurangabad, Latur, Nagpur, Akola, Nashik, Kolhapur and Thane,” a state health department official said. DN Patil, Maharashtra immunisation officer and the nodal authority for the vaccination drive roll-out in the state, said, “We have sought funds from the National Health Mission of the state for the installation of the units. We have to ensure basic infrastructure before the Centre dispatches the units.” All states in the country have been told to prepare the cold chain management and last-mile delivery plans and the lists of frontline workers to be vaccinated first. Maharashtra would get six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. The walk-in coolers would maintain temperatures at 2-8ºC. This is the usual temperature maintained for vaccines, including that of polio. The walk-in freezers can maintain -15ºC to -25ºC. Public health expert Dr R Jotkar, however, said such limited numbers of cold storage units might not suffice the state’s need considering the huge number of vaccine beneficiaries from the government and the private sectors. “The government should not compromise on the issue. The cold storage units are essential to ensure proper vaccine storage.” The Maharashtra health department will prepare the list of healthcare workers for priority vaccination by December 6. “We should be able to update the data related to the frontline workers, both from the government and private sectors, and the senior citizens with comorbidities on the app,” a health official said. So far, 98% of healthcare workers from the public sector and 75% from the private sector have been registered for vaccination. A government official said the process was on to identify the vaccinators, including medical interns and students and auxiliary nurse midwives, in different districts. Technical adviser to the state government Dr Subhash Salunkhe told TOI that one of the vaccines currently developed should get authorization by the end of January for the roll-out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-allocate-rs-43l-for-installing-cold-storage-units/articleshow/79554696.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra to allocate Rs 43 lakh for installing cold storage units||PUNE: The Maharashtra government will allocate Rs43 lakh through the National Health Mission for installing cold storage units across the state to stock up Covid-19 vaccines. Though the Centre would provide eight districts, including Pune, with walk-in coolers and walk-in freezers by December and January, health department officials stated that the state would use the National Health Mission funds for the installation of the units. “Once the funds are sanctioned, we will start preparing for the units. This process should be completed by mid-December. The units will be installed at the existing regional vaccine centres in Pune, Aurangabad, Latur, Nagpur, Akola, Nashik, Kolhapur and Thane,” a state health department official said. DN Patil, Maharashtra immunisation officer and the nodal authority for the vaccination drive roll-out in the state, said, “We have sought funds from the National Health Mission of the state for the installation of the units. We have to ensure basic infrastructure before the Centre dispatches the units.” All states in the country have been told to prepare the cold chain management and last-mile delivery plans and the lists of frontline workers to be vaccinated first. Maharashtra would get six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers. The walk-in coolers would maintain temperatures at 2-8ºC. This is the usual temperature maintained for vaccines, including that of polio. The walk-in freezers can maintain -15ºC to -25ºC. Public health expert Dr R Jotkar, however, said such limited numbers of cold storage units might not suffice the state’s need considering the huge number of vaccine beneficiaries from the government and the private sectors. “The government should not compromise on the issue. The cold storage units are essential to ensure proper vaccine storage.” The Maharashtra health department will prepare the list of healthcare workers for priority vaccination by December 6. “We should be able to update the data related to the frontline workers, both from the government and private sectors, and the senior citizens with comorbidities on the app,” a health official said. So far, 98% of healthcare workers from the public sector and 75% from the private sector have been registered for vaccination. A government official said the process was on to identify the vaccinators, including medical interns and students and auxiliary nurse midwives, in different districts. Technical adviser to the state government Dr Subhash Salunkhe told TOI that one of the vaccines currently developed should get authorization by the end of January for the roll-out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-to-allocate-rs-43l-for-installing-cold-storage-units/articleshow/79560187.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Govt to Delhi HC: Rs 45 crore Covid-19 fine not being used in pandemic fight||NEW DELHI: Over Rs 45 crore has been collected jointly by the AAP government and Delhi Police as Covid-19 fines. However, the money has not been ploughed back into fighting the pandemic since procedures don’t permit it, the government told Delhi High Court on Thursday. In a status report, the government said over Rs 17.9 crore had been collected by it against 2.4 lakh Covid challans, while Delhi Police had collected over Rs 27.7 crore from 5.5 lakh challans. The court had last month sought to know how many had been fined and how much amount had been collected for violation of Covid norms, along with the information on how the authorities intended to utilise the money. Both amounts are deposited in the government treasury as per the accounting procedure and lie there as it can’t be directly used for any specific expense, including Covid-19, by the administration. “As per procedure, all expenditures in any department have to be incurred from the budget allocations approved through the legislative procedure. Therefore, Covid-19-related expenditures are being made by departments concerned out of the allocated funds,” the government clarified. In response to another query, the government said 415 out of the 593 places for last rites had been dedicated to corona-related deaths, where 1,265 patients were cremated/buried in October and 2,787 in November. Senior advocate Sandeep Sethi further told the court that about 10,817 calls had been received on and attended to by helpline 1031 in November. However, no system is there to record the feedback of the callers. The court has asked the government to look into it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-to-hc-rs-45-crore-covid-fine-not-being-used-in-pandemic-fight/articleshow/79554721.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Kharar-Kurali NH lacks safety, has many black spots: Report||Mohali: The design stage safety audit report of the section of the National Highway 205 i.e. between Kharar and Kurali has highlighted major safety hazards in violation of the orders of the Supreme Court. Liquor vends and tuck shops have been set up in close proximity of the NH-205. Harman Singh Sidhu of Arrive-Safe NGO has taken up the matter with Justice A M Sapre, chairman, Supreme Court committee on Road Safety New Delhi. In his complaint letter, Sidhu has sought issuance of necessary directions to the NHAI project director, Mohali, to address the deficiencies and implement recommendations given in the road safety audit (RSA) report. He further stated that as per the guidelines of the committee, the RSA should be conducted at design stage and the auditor’s recommendations should be implemented. The RSA should be conducted at the construction and operational stage too. The Accident Black Spot Identification & Rectification Program Punjab 2019 report published by the Punjab police shows black spots on the section between Kharar and Kurali, which has seen 33 fatal accidents in the past three years. Some locations and black spots on this section of the NH-205 from the report replicates 10 fatal accidents at Bannamjra cut, nine fatal accidents at Sahauran turning, seven at Daun Majra turn, four fatal accidents at Padiala bypass and three fatal accidents at Lakhnaur turn. Sidhu said, “The NH-205 (Old NH-21) was upgraded and a bypass was constructed for Kurali town to ensure safe and smooth flow of traffic. The bypass was supposedly a ‘green field’ section on the highway as there was no business activity on the roadside. However, all types of shops, housing colony, business establishments and liquor vends have come up on the sides of the Kurali bypass, thus, failing the entire purpose of the bypass. Vehicles parked on the roadside are a safety hazard. This would further increase possibilities of fatal road crashes in the foggy season. The intersection near Bannmajra village is already a blackspot.” He said apart from 33 fatal accidents on this section, 22 serious and three minor accidents have also been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kharar-kurali-nh-lacks-safety-has-many-black-spots-report/articleshow/79553314.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||13 from T, AP make it to wealthiest women list||Hyderabad: As many as 13 women from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have made it to the list of 100 wealthiest women in India with Nilima Motaparti of Divi’s Laboratories leading the pack with a wealth of Rs 18,620 crore. Motaparti has emerged as the fourth wealthiest woman in the second edition of the Kotak Wealth Hurun – Leading Wealthy Women’ list after HCL Technologies’ Roshni Nadar Malhotra (Rs 54,850 crore), Kiran Mazumdar Shaw of Biocon (Rs 36,600 crore) and Leena Gandhi Tewari of USV (Rs 21,340 crore). Interestingly, it is women from the pharma, biotech and healthcare space from Hyderabad that dominate the list when it comes to the Telugu states. Hyderabad has also emerged third when it comes to the highest number of wealthy women with 10 individuals, after Mumbai’s 32 and New Delhi’s 20. Motaparti, who stood 15th all India in the first edition of the report published in 2018, is followed by Mahima Datla of Biological E with Rs 4,100 crore at second spot (15th rank all India). At third and fourth spot are Shobana Kamineni (31nd) and Sangita Reddy (32nd) of Apollo Hospitals with Rs 1,470 crore and Rs 1,400 crore, respectively. Hyderabad-based Kaveri Seed’s Gundavaram Vanaja Devi stands fifth in the two states (41st) with a wealth of Rs 850 crore, followed by Padmaja Gangireddy of Spandana Sphoorty Financial (46th), also from Hyderabad, with Rs 690 crore. Naveena Nekkanti & Rama Devi of Nekkanti Sea Foods from Visakhapatnam are the wealthiest women in Andhra Pradesh and seventh wealthiest in the two states (48th all India) with Rs 640 crore, while Tirupati-based PLR Projects’ Swarnalatha Galiveeti is second richest in AP and eighth richest in the Telugu states (52nd all India) with Rs 580 crore. Shalini Bhupal and Indira Krishna Reddy of TAJGVK Hotels & Resorts, with Rs 490 crore, share ninth spot (56th) and Uma Devi Chigurupati of Granules India with Rs 420 crore is 10th (61st) in the Telugu states. At 11th spot (65th all India) is Heritage Foods’ Nara Bhuvaneswari with Rs 400 crore followed by 32-year-old Hyderabad-based Universal Sportsbiz promoter Anjana Reddy, one of the youngest women on the list. The report, which has considered net worth as on September 30, 2020, with a minimum wealth criterion of Rs 100 crore, is focused on women actively involved in family businesses, entrepreneurs and professionals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-from-t-ap-make-it-to-wealthiest-women-list/articleshow/79554718.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||Visually-impaired gold medalist mourns state govt apathy for his job plea||Pilibhit: In the 24 years of his life, Kamal Sharma, a visually-impaired youth from a poor family of Pilibhit city has won a prestigious gold medal for the country in world judo championship for visually-impaired persons in Hungary in 2013, and currently captains UP’s cricket team for the visually-impaired. Yet, on December 3, the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, he wore a dejected look, due to the apathy of the state government, which has refused to provide him a government job as per its own policy.The state government has assigned a gazetted officer to oversee the appointment of international sportspersons with disabilities in government jobs, bypassing a transparent selection procedure. Kamal Sharma says he has approached this officer, and all other senior state officials, with his job application in compliance with the government policy, without any recompense.In a letter issued on November 2, 2015 by Dr Anita Bhatnagar Jain to her counterparts in 10 departments of the state government, the then UP principal chief secretary of sports had specified that if a requisite post to accommodate an international sportsperson seeking a job were not available, it would have to be separately generated.“So far, I’ve sent letters to the PM, the state’s governor, CM, chief secretary and public service commission chairman, urging them for a job in accordance with the state government’s policy, but none of my letters were ever responded,” said Sharma.Prior to winning the international gold medal in judo, the outstanding sportsman had won another gold medal at the national judo championship in March 2013, which had opened the door for his participation in the world event.In cricket, he has twice won Man of the Series award at state-level championships, and Man of the Match awards thrice at the national level — in 2015, 2017 and 2019.He also won the national chess championship in 2017 at Lucknow. “Recognising my talent in sports, the then UP CM Akhilesh Yadav had in 2013, honored me as the best player,” he said.Sharma said his father Ram Murti Lal had a small workshop for manufacturing agricultural tools, but illness had robbed him of his ability to work, pushing their family into acute financial distress.“I fulfill all eligibility criteria for a government job on educational grounds as well, as I’ve completed my graduation and also hold a diploma in special education. Currently, I’m pursuing MA in political science from National Rehabilitation University in Lucknow,” Sharma said.On being asked about Kamal Sharma, district disabled welfare officer K P Singh said no one from the state government has sought any information on Kamal Sharma thus far. “Now that I’ve heard of him, I’ll positively recommend his case to the state administration within 2-3 days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/visually-impaired-gold-medalist-mourns-state-govt-apathy-for-his-job-plea/articleshow/79550896.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 4, 2020||Pune||Day’s recoveries rise above 1k, cases drop to 793||Pune: The Covid-19 recoveries increased to 1,052 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, while its new cases dropped to 793 after recording more than 900 infections in the last two days. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal limits added 355, followed by the rural areas (273) and the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (165). With this, the region’s total caseload increased above 3.45 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the region’s total recoveries increased above 3.26 lakh on Thursday, with a maximum discharges being recorded in the PMC areas (1.61 lakh). The PCMC limits have recorded 89,231 recoveries so far, while the rural areas have recorded 75,569 discharges. For the second straight day, the region reported more discharges than new cases. The region recorded 18 more deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday. These included seven deaths each from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and four from the rural areas. The total deaths in the region due to the infection increased to 8,449 on Thursday. An increase in recoveries resulted in a slight drop in the region’s active caseload. On Thursday, active cases reached 11,241, including 6,906 patients in home isolation and 4,335 in hospitals. More than 5,108 patients were in home isolation in the PMC limits. The region conducted 9,389 tests in the last 24 hours. The highest number of samples (3,465) were tested in the PMC limits. The Pimpri Chinchwad conducted 3,394 tests, while 2,530 samples were tested in the rural areas on Thursday. A report released by PMC stated that 422 patients were at critical stage and 1165 were on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-rise-above-1k-cases-drop-to-793/articleshow/79554730.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 4, 2020||Bareilly||In a first, PTR to launch bird safari||Pilibhit: Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR) authorities will be be launching a bird safari in the forest and its surroundings, the first of its kind since its inception in June 2014. Two paid packages will be offered to tourists, bookings for which begin on Friday. These will be conducted every day providing there are at least six people in a group. Giving details, deputy director of PTR Naveen Khandelwal said a local avian expert, Akhtar Mian, will play a pivotal role as resource person to guide tourists in understanding about the diversity of birds, including the winged visitors that come to roost along the water bodies in the forest in winter. "We want the tourists not only to focus on tigers but the entire diversity of wildlife in the reserve,” said Khandelwal. The safari will also generate an additional source of PTR’s revenue. The safari will comprise a single-day tour costing Rs 1,000 per person and a three days and two nights package inclusive of the charges of stay, meals and conveyance. In addition, tourists will be provided with a pair of binoculars for bird-watching and a book on indigenous and migratory birds, the PTR official said. Akhtar Mian, who had earlier conducted the estimation of bird species in PTR, said there are 326 indigenous species of birds in PTR including the Sarus crane, Kingfisher and Indian roller. In addition, around 90 species of migratory birds visit the forest wetlands for wintering such as Tuffed ducks, Common Pochard and Northern pintail. The biggest water body is the 22-km Sharda Sagar dam canal, along which the Chuka tourist spot in the core forest of Mahof forest range is located. A few groups from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka are expected to arrive at PTR soon to enjoy the bird safari, Aktar Mian added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/in-a-first-ptr-to-launch-bird-safari/articleshow/79550934.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 4, 2020||Delhi||No need for night curfew as positivity rate has dipped sharply, AAP govt tells Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The AAP government informed Delhi High Court on Thursday that it has no plan to impose night curfew in the national capital to contain the spread of Covid-19, in view of the declining positivity rate. Relying on what appears to be waning of the third Covid-19 wave in Delhi, the government in its status report submitted that after assessing the present situation, it “has taken a decision not to impose night curfew in Delhi or some parts of Delhi.” However, it has also decided to maintain status-quo with respect to permitted/restricted activities in Delhi including celebrating festivals, marriages, interstate movement of buses, etc. till year-end. The government’s stand was conveyed to a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad in response to its earlier query on November 26, if night curfew would be imposed in Delhi to contain spread of the infection, as has been done in some other states. The report, filed through standing counsel Satyakam added that the government has issued another order on November 28, restricting 50% attendance of employees (below grade-1) of non-essential services, government departments, corporations, public sector undertakings and local bodies. “Private establishments have also been advised to stagger the office timings and presence of staff to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time,” it submitted in response to a PIL wherein the court is monitoring steps taken by the government to handle Covid-19. During the hearing, the bench stressed on the need to test and trace while improving the turnaround time for a person to get Covid test report. It noted that the positivity rate is above 5% and pointed out that “the mantra remains aggressive testing and equally aggressive contact tracing.” The bench highlighted, “Even as of yesterday, there were about 4,000 new cases of Covid-19” observing further that to “keep an unabated check on the spread of the infection, the level of testing cannot be reduced. Efforts must be made to trace the contacts of persons who have tested positive and ensure that persons who are symptomatic and in home quarantine, adhere to the guidelines prescribed by Indian Council of Medical Research.” It sought from Delhi government details of measures that are being taken to ensure proper follow-up on contact tracing and to ensure that persons who are home quarantined, do not violate the isolation regime. The court also directed the government to ensure that hospitals and labs do not take more than 24 hours to give the results of the tests and the said results are communicated to the patients by sending an SMS on their mobile phones within 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-need-for-night-curfew-as-positivity-rate-has-dipped-sharply-aap-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/79554747.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 4, 2020||Pune||ICMR scientists favour vaccine cover for all frontline workers||Pune: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists have said all frontline workers would be considered for vaccination, irrespective of whether they have been infected with Covid-19 or not. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has made it clear that antibody testing would not be conducted before administering the vaccine. “The frontline workers are being considered on the basis of their occupation and ability to transmit the infection to a larger number of people. All of them will be covered in the vaccination drive, ICMR lead epidemiologist Samiran Panda told TOI on Wednesday.The government has iterated its plan to vaccinate around 25 crore-30 crore people on a priority basis within the next six months after a vaccine is approved and becomes available. Among the priority population are healthcare and frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities. With the states preparing the list of frontline workers to be updated on the Covin app, there was confusion on whether to include the names of those already infected with Covid-19. “The parameters of administering the vaccine is very clear. The vaccines will be used to prevent transmission from the priority group — the healthcare and frontline workers and the vulnerable elderly. We have to understand that if people already contacting the virus have developed adequate neutralizing antibodies. Some of them might have had mild infection or some might have had severe infection. But how long their immunity will last is still not known,” Panda said.“With the WHO guidelines stating not to test the antibodies, it will be difficult to ascertain the duration of such people’s immunity. Keeping his in mind, all frontline workers will be vaccinated to ensure that they develop immunity. This will prevent the chances of transmission through them, considering their occupation,” he said. Experts said even during past pandemics (such as small pox), the susceptible population was targeted first for vaccination before including the rest of the people in the drive. Epidemiologists said discussions were on globally whether to vaccinate the people who have already recovered from Covid-19. One theory was that there might not be any adverse event even if such people were vaccinated. State technical expert Dr Subhash Salunkhe said vaccinating such people should not be an issue if the studies revealed that there was no adverse effect. ‘“It will be practically impossible to check the antibodies and administer vaccine. WHO has clearly stated in all its solidarity vaccine trials that they need not measure the antibodies or one does not need to find out whether a person had Covid-19 or not to get vaccinated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmr-scientists-favour-vaccine-cover-for-all-frontline-workers/articleshow/79554734.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Loudspeaker ban call: Asad slams Sena & Maha govt||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday hit out at the Shiv Sena-led MVA government in Maharashtra over an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, suggesting that loudspeakers be banned in mosques. A day before MIM’s fate in the Greater Hyderabad civic polls gets decided, Owaisi took to Twitter and hit out at Sena. “There is already a law that regulates ALL uses of loudspeakers. But who cares about facts when you can gain political points by being anti-Muslim? I take no pleasure in reminding everyone that this isn’t ‘radicalisation’ as Shiv Sena was certified secular by INC-NCP,” tweeted Owaisi. Sena, through an editorial published in Saamana on Wednesday, demanded steps from the Centre to stop usage of loudspeakers in mosques as they cause noise pollution. Earlier, Sena’s Mumbai-South division head Pandurang Sakpal had proposed an azaan competition for Muslim kids. Owaisi’s AIMIM has one MP from Aurangabad and two MLAs in Maharashtra. Party candidate Shah Faruk Anwar had won the Dulhe seat, while Mohammed Ismail Abdul Khalique emerged victorious in Malegaon. The party recently won five MLA seats in the recently-concluded Bihar election and is now planning to expand its base by competing in West Bengal. The AIMIM chief also mentioned that his party stands in solidarity with farmers. “@aimim_national stands in solidarity with farmers. The protests by the farmers are legitimate. Prime Minister @narendramodi should himself come forward and talk to the farmers’ organizations,” he tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loudspeaker-ban-call-asad-slams-sena-maha-govt/articleshow/79554733.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||600 Covid cases, three deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With Covid-19 testing ramped up to 53,686 on Wednesday, Telangana saw 609 new cases after dropping to 502 on Tuesday. With the latest numbers, the case-load in the state has risen to 2,71,492 while the death toll has touched 1,465 with three more deaths on Wednesday. Altogether, 8,999 patients are under medical supervision and a total of 2,61,028 patients in the state have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection. While there is a slight improvement in sample testing over the last couple of days, the state has now completed 56 lakh tests. Telangana has now tested 1.5 lakh samples per million population. The current case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is 0.53%, among the lowest in the country, while the recovery rate is now 96.14%. Of the 609 new cases tested positive on Wednesday, 114 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, while 48 are from Rangareddy, 45 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 29 from Warangal Urban and 24 from Bhadradri Kothagudem. Barring Narayanpet, all remaining districts recorded new cases on Thursday, of which seven districts recorded less than 10 new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/600-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79554737.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Agra||54 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 9,458||Agra: At least 54 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 9,458. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and two staffers of the district hospital. Also, 49 Covid patients were discharged. Of the 9,458 cases reported, 8,647 [91.4%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district increased from 642 on Wednesday, to 644 on Thursday. A 58-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at the SNMC. The resident of Sikandra locality was suffering from diabetes, pneumonia and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 167 deaths have been reported in the district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in Agra district is 2.6% and the fatality rate 1.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/54-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9458/articleshow/79551594.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Most flyers from Gujarat, Rajasthan & Delhi carry RT-PCR negative reports||PUNE: The mandatory RT-PCR test norms for flyers from Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan have not affected arrivals much at the city airport. Pune airport authorities and travel agents were unanimous that the incoming flyers were now adapting to the regulations and most of them were carrying the RT-PCR negative test reports. “The number of flyers reaching Pune in direct flights from Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan has remained stable for the week ever since the regulations came into force. There were some confusions among the flyers initially,” a senior airport official said. Statistics revealed that 81 flyers arrived from Gujarat on November 25. The number, except on November 29, never dipped below 80 (see graphic). The Pune airport currently has one daily flight to and from Ahmedabad. Though there is no direct flight to Goa, the airport has 12 flights to Delhi and one weekly flight to Rajasthan. “The airport is conducting the RT-PCR tests in a smooth manner and avoiding any confusion. It has been observed that most of the flyers from the three states are carrying RT-PCR negative reports. This shows adequate awareness among them,” the official added. The figures revealed that 1,913 passengers reached Pune in direct flights from Delhi, Gujarat and Rajasthan on November 25. The same day, RT-PCR tests were conducted on 136 incoming flyers. The Maharashtra government had announced that people reaching the state from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat either need to carry a negative RT-PCR test report or have to undergo the test at the arriving airports with effect from November 25. People reaching Maharashtra from other parts of the country in flights connecting the four states will not have to carry with them the RT-PCR negative reports or undergo the test on arrival in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-from-delhi-guj-raj-get-used-to-rt-pcr-norms-most-carry-reports/articleshow/79554740.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||98% of Kumbh works will be completed by month-end: CM Rawat||Haridwar: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday visited Haridwar and reviewed the preparations for the Kumbh Mela 2021. After inspecting the mela sites, the CM also chaired a review meeting. He later told mediapersons that the work for the mega festival is on track and is expected to be completed by December 31. “We anticipate that 98% of the work will be completed by this month. The remaining work will be completed by January 31,” the CM said. CM Rawat later offered prayers at Brahmkund Ghat in Har-Ki-Pauri where the teerth purohit (priests) community thanked him for revoking the Harish Rawat government’s order which stated that Har-Ki-Pauri is on the banks of an “escape channel” of the Ganga canal and not on the banks of the Ganga river. The CM also visited Narsan and Roorkee areas where he inspected works of the national highway and Roorkee bypass lane. He also inaugurated two new power houses built by the Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) at Jagjeetpur and Laltarau areas to meet the power demand during Kumbh. Talking to the mediapersons, CM Rawat said that “the Kumbh will be organised at a large scale and the government is fully capable to control the pandemic during the mega fair.” “The Kumbh works will be completed within the time frame and the quality of work will not be compromised,”he added. The CM ordered the officials to focus on the quality of the Kumbh works and also asked the mela administration to build all the roads connecting akhadas, ashrams, temples and Peshwai route of the akhadas from Jawalpur to Haridwar before the Kumbh begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/98-of-kumbh-works-will-be-completed-by-month-end-cm-rawat/articleshow/79552267.cms||MS Nawaz
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Officials plan vaccine storage in interiors||HYDERABAD: In anticipation of the much-awaited vaccine for Covid-19, the Bhadradri Kothagudem district administration has already started making arrangements for its storage and use. District collector M V Reddy has given instructions to medical and health officials to prepare exclusive premises in advance for vaccine storage. “We are on the job of setting up the storage facilities. The arrangement would be such that the vaccine would be available even at primary health centres,” DMHO Bhaskar Naik told TOI on Thursday. ‘ lthough it is not clear as yet about when the vaccine would be available, the district administration has begun work to identify places for putting up equipment for storage. “The ground work is being done and we will be ready,” Bhaskar Naik said. During a video conference with officials on Wednesday, the collector said all arrangements should be made at the district storage centre identified for the purpose of storing vaccine as per norms. In addition, arrangements will also be made to create sub-centres. From the district storage centre, the vaccine will be transported to the sub-centres. From there, it can conveniently reach hospitals. According to the state-wide Covid-19 cases figures released on Thursday, 24 new Covid cases were reported in Bhadradri Kothagudem district up to 8pm on December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-plan-vaccine-storage-in-interiors/articleshow/79554754.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Vanduttennu sollu||CHENNAI: In 1973, when M G Ramachandran rebelled against M Karunanidhi and formed ADMK, he took with him a chunk of the DMK’s frontline leaders and grassroot workers. But his fan clubs, the Mandrams, named after his films ‘Urimai Kural’ and ‘Naalai Namadhe’ formed the backbone of his new party. Three years later, ADMK swept the 1977 assembly election. Will actor Rajinikanth, who will turn 70 soon, repeat the MGR magic? Or even replicate the success of N T Rama Rao, who floated Telugu Desam in 1982 and defeated the Congress within a year? Read the entire story on TOI+What will Rajinikanth's politics look like?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vanduttennu-sollu/articleshow/79554787.cms||Jaya Menon
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Return of the silver screen after eight months, Covid protocol to be followed||HYDERABAD: Big screen entertainment is back in the city after more than eight months since theatres were shut down due to the Covid-19 outbreak and announcement of lockdown on March 24 this year. But theatres will not be all dark inside as the movie experience demands. The new protocol demands that fresh air be allowed into the theatres and so theatre managements will keep some of the doors open, at least partially. “The priority is to make theatres safe for people to come. Though alternate seats are to be kept vacant, we can leave even more seats, just so that the audience will be convinced that their safety is of utmost importance than us making money,” said Bala Govind Raju of the Twin Cities Cinema Exhibitors Association. For film aficionados, Friday, December 4 will be a big day as they can watch their heroes with their larger than life-size image on the big screen – both in single screens and multiplexes. Not all theatres will open but some will. And the others gradually. Theatres will follow all the SOPs issued by the government, including accommodating only 50% of the seating capacity. To draw crowds to the theatres, some of them are giving offers of ‘Buy one get one free’ ticket’ on weekends. There are offers on food and beverages too if one is buying four tickets. Writer-producer-director Christopher Nolan’s Hollywood film Tenet will hit the screens in English, Telugu, Telugu and Tamil. The film industry has already begun to cheer about the response to the release of films because of the bookings that are taking place. “In fact as soon as the bookings opened, many shows started filling up immediately as one can see on the websites,” M Vijendar Reddy, former president of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce said. Old films are being screened for re-runs as Telugu films of leading actors have not been completed due to lockdown. Even after shootings were allowed, because there were instances of some testing positive, shootings had to be postponed. At least 11 films are set for re-release from Friday, including one Telugu film which had released in February this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/return-of-the-silver-screen-after-eight-months-covid-protocol-to-be-followed/articleshow/79554786.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh spotted on the campus, fined Rs 2,000||NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh has been fined Rs 2,000 after she was found staying at her hostel. The student was fined after she was spotted on the campus early in November but received the notice on Thursday. Challenging the notice, the JNUSU president claimed that she returned to her hostel in October when there were no guidelines against it and she has been fined under the incorrect annexure. The notice has been issued to 10 students of Koyna hostel, where Ghosh is also a resident. In the notice, it was stated that the JNUSU president was found in the hostel corridor on November 5, and hence fined. “There has been no circular since September 15, which stated that students cannot return till September 30. Therefore, I had returned to my hostel early in October. Now, I have been fined for being present in my own hostel,” said Ghosh. Ghosh said that she was expected to pay the fine within a week. “However, I have been fined under annexure of 2.5.9, which I am not guilty of,” she said. The JNUSU president said that the annexure was not applicable for the 10 students as they are legal residents of the hostel. “We shall not be paying the fine,” she said. The JNU hostel manual annexure 2.5.9 states that “any resident lodging an unauthorised person shall be liable to fine and such other disciplinary action as may be decided by the wardens or higher authorities.” Despite attempts made, the dean of students Sudheer Pratap Singh did not respond to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnusu-prez-spotted-on-the-campus-fined-rs-2000/articleshow/79554807.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||Tope says politicians not to get first Covid shots||Pune: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said no politician or influential people would be entertained as a priority recipient to get the first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine. Tope’s comment comes in the wake of complaints from some bureaucrats about pressure from some influential politicians and senior police officers to be included among the first recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine. “I have, however, not received any such complaint. I have sent a message to all district authorities to directly reach out to me if they get such requests,” the minister told TOI on Wednesday night. “The government is preparing the list of frontline workers and only they will get the first shots. The final list should be ready by next week The government will follow the Centre’s protocol and administer the shots to healthcare and frontline workers and the elderly people with comorbidities,” he said.With vaccine manufacturers preparing to launch their products after necessary clearances, the government has laid out a strict protocol to identify the priority recipients. Their names are mostly ready and will be uploaded on the government application. A government official said the recipients would be approved for the shots after due verifications.The official said politicians did not feature on the list of the frontline workers. A senior health department official in Pune said though there were talks in circles about requests from some politicians to receive the Covid-19 vaccine on a priority basis, there has been no formal application from anyone so far. Another official, however, said some politicians were regularly in touch for updates on vaccine trials, but no one has so far volunteered to be a candidate for the ongoing trials.Tope said data on frontline workers from the government sector were ready. He added that the government was awaiting data from the Indian Medical Association members. “The data on the public-sector health workers will be uploaded on the government app on December 6. The data on the private medical practitioners will be uploaded on December 8. A meeting with the chief secretary on the plan of action will be scheduled then for the final submission of the data,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-says-politicians-not-to-get-first-covid-shots/articleshow/79554780.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rajinikanth in BJP’s plans to breach Dravidian fort||CHENNAI: The BJP may well be among Rajinikanth’s top choices for an ally, if the actor is convinced about the political prudence of such a move. Asked about the supposed apprehensions of the actor about aligning with BJP, RSS ideologue and Rajini’s advisor S Gurumurthy told TOI, “The concerns are about Muslim, Christian and dalit votes. But Muslims and Christians are with DMK. Nothing is going to change that. And, Rajini has a huge following among dalits.” Ruling out the possibility of BJP causing an erosion of Rajini’s support base, he said, “In fact, the BJP will add to it substantially.” “Nobody in BJP was talking to Rajinikanth. I only discussed with him about how things were in TN. I was only giving my narrative, my inputs,” he said. Gurumurthy was of the view, however, that Rajini was unlikely to team up with AIADMK. A senior BJP leader based in Delhi said, “As of now, there is no clarity about alliance, but since the minorities are solidly behind the DMK front, the BJP is hopeful that Rajini would be pragmatic in consolidating Hindu votes and hence, the BJP too would be part of his front.” BJP leaders feel that Rajinikanth is best suited to put the brakes on the Dravidian rule because he can attract leaders from both the DMK and the AIADMK and bring about a tectonic shift in TN politics. Moreover, many smaller parties would rally behind him. Sources say that the actor may initiate talks with PMK, besides several fringe caste outfits. There is a section in the BJP, however, which believes the actor is unlikely to team up with the saffron party. “He will not travel (form an alliance) with us,” said a source close to Arjuna Murthy. Though home minister Amit Shah had tried to reach Rajinikanth during his recent visit to Chennai, the meeting did not take place. It looks like he wants to go it alone or form a front of his own,” said the source. While welcoming Rajinikanth’s entry into politics, BJP general secretary Karu Nagarajan, vice president K S Narendran and party’s spokesperson Narayanan Tripathy said they would focus on strengthening their party’s voter base rather than worry about the actor’s reach and popularity. “There are many players in the political arena. Now, Rajinikanth is entering into it and he will be one among them. We will continue to play our game,” said Narendran. Nagarajan, however, did not rule out an alliance with Rajinikanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-in-bjps-plans-to-breach-dravidian-fort/articleshow/79554824.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Remedies on claimants lacking in Dharani’||Hyderabad: Senior counsel D Prakash Reddy on Thursday expressed apprehensions that unconnected persons may claim non-agricultural properties and enter themselves as owners of these properties into Dharani portal. The senior counsel was arguing before a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy hearing a batch of petitions filed against Dharani. “The state government introduced this portal without any substantial legislative back-up. There are no rules and regulations that guide the owners and the officials on who should enter the information and who should act as a custodian of such data,” he said. He further said there is no remedial mechanism to redress the grievances of genuine owners if some conman chooses to upload his own details as owner of a particular property. The state government is proceeding further in the matter with oral instructions, he pointed out. Rejecting the counter filed by chief secretary Somesh Kumar about the safety accorded to the owners, the senior counsel said the state government could frame the same as rules and regulations instead of filing it as an affidavit before the court. “The state’s counter was silent on the aspect who would stand accountable for the wrong entries made into Dharani,” Prakash Reddy said. The record collected and maintained by the state through Dharani will have legal sanctity if the same is regulated by a law, he added. The case was posted to December 8 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/remedies-on-claimants-lacking-in-dharani/articleshow/79554822.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||Non-agri assets mutation on Dharani||Hyderabad: To make property mutations of non-agriculture properties through Dharani portal official, Telangana government on Thursday issued a GO incorporating the amendments to the Municipalities Act. The new rules — Telangana Municipalities (Mutation of Property through Dharani Portal) Rules, 2020 — were issued, which are applicable to the all municipalities and municipal corporations except GHMC. In the GO issued by the municipal administration department, powers are given to the municipalities and municipal corporations for preparation, maintenance and updation of record of rights of non-agricultural properties through Dharani portal digitally. The GO was issued as the state government had decided to register both agriculture and non-agriculture properties through Dharani portal. The GO said the record of rights of non-agricultural properties will have details like name of the owner, names of family member having the right of succession of said property, details of the location, type, usage and extent of the property, other details of the owner required to confirm his identity and his family members and to also communicate with the owner. “Every civic body other than GHMC will switch to the Dharani portal for all the details of the non-agricultural properties and other services like issue of building permissions, occupancy certificates and for approval of plots or layouts,” the GO said. On the process of registration and effecting a change in record of rights, the government said any person who intends to transfer or obtain an interest by way of sale, gift, mortgage or exchange of any non-agricultural property under a registered document will have to apply after getting a no-dues certificate from the municipality concerned and the respective power distribution company. Later, they can apply for slot booking for registering the property to the sub-registrar through Dharani portal. The sub-registrar will allot a date through the portal and register the document after collecting mutation charges. The mutation will be done instantly by deleting the property covered by the document from the account of the transferor and adding the same to the account of the transferee in case of sale, gift and exchange. In case of mortgage, the charge created would be recorded in Dharani. The municipal administration department said every municipality will have access to the latest record of rights, as updated on the Dharani portal, and would use this record of rights alone for the purposes of house tax under sections 82 to 85 of the Telangana Municipalities Act, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-agri-assets-mutation-on-dharani/articleshow/79554833.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC: Footage shows man with iron rod, no bail in riots case||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of a man in a northeast Delhi violence case observing that he was allegedly actively involved in rioting and could be seen in a video footage holding an iron rod as a part of a mob. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat said, “In the present case, the accused is not only actively involved in rioting, but coupled with the action of the other accused seen in the video footage it clearly shows violence due to unlawful assembly.” Abdul Gaffar, appearing for the accused, Rifaqat Ali, contended that even if the video was to be believed, Ali could be accused of rioting and not heinous charge of murder of Amaan, as alleged in the case. Gaffar argued that Amaan died of gunshot wounds and the incident couldn’t be directly attributed to Ali. He also claimed that it was an admitted case of the prosecution that Ali was not the one who fired at the victim or caused injuries to him. Special public prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma, on behalf of Delhi Police, opposed the bail plea arguing that Ali was arrested after his presence was established on the basis of video footage and disclosure statements of earlier arrested accused. The court, subsequently, opined that every member of an unlawful assembly was deemed to be guilty of the offence committed by other member/s of that assembly in prosecution of a common object or which he knew was likely to be committed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-footage-shows-man-with-iron-rod-no-bail-in-riots-case/articleshow/79554837.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Sanguem PS among 10 best in the country||Margao: Sanguem police station made it to the top ten police stations in the country for 2020, grabbing the fifth position in the list released by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday. Nongpok Sekmai police station from Thoubal district of Manipur topped the list. AWPS-Suramangalam (Salem, TN), Kharsang (Changlang, Arunachal) and Jhilmili (Surajpur, Chhattisgarh) bagged the other three top positions above Sanguem, in that order. Kalighat (Andaman and Nicobar Islands), Pakyong (East district, Sikkim), Kanth (Moradabad, Uttar Pradesh), Khanvel (Dadra and Nagar Haveli) and Jammikunta Town (Karimnagar, Telangana) bagged the remaining five slots among the top ten. A press release by the MHA said that this year’s survey for best police stations was conducted under challenging circumstances. “It was difficult to access police stations located in remote areas during the corona pandemic due to various restrictions on movement. Consequently, the survey was conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the government,” the release said. The top 10 police stations out of 16,671 across the country were ranked through data analysis, direct observation and public feedback. The ranking process commenced with shortlisting of the best performing police stations in each state on the basis of addressing property offences, crimes against women, crimes against weaker sections, missing persons, unidentified found persons and unidentified dead bodies. Stating that it was a matter of great pride for the Goa police, DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena posted from his official twitter handle, “It is a testament to our service and motivates us to serve people of Goa even better.” South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh complimented Sanguem PI Sachin Panalkar and his team for the achievement, and credited the DGP and DIGs Rajesh Kumar and Paramaditya for the honour. “We are making efforts to match these standards at all the police stations,” he said. Dy SP Kiran Poduval complimented Sanguem PI Panalkar whom he described as “honest, hard working and dedicated.” “The police station premises built during the Portuguese era is excellently maintained by the PI and staff and is pleasing to the public who visit it,” Poduval said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanguem-ps-among-10-best-in-the-country/articleshow/79555840.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Your laptop causes that nagging pain||AHMEDABAD: If you’re one of those people who are strapped to their chairs and are leaning over laptops on dining tables in this new work from home (WFH) regime, you may be witnessing new aches and pains that you did not experience at office. It may be your laptop, or design of your computer workstation, your home furnishing that defy ergonomic principles and also your posture and the less breaks you take. Researchers at ICMR-National Institute of Occupational health (NIOH) Ahmedabad and IIPH-Gandhinagar studied musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) in 184 ITES professionals to pinpoint the exact problems why these pains were occurring. The research found that nearly 77% of employees complained of lower back, wrist and hand and shoulder pains, while working on laptops. Also, more percentage of women experienced MSD pains than men. Among IT workers there was high prevalence of MSDs among 66.8% of the employees. The highest prevalence of MSDs reported for lower back (32.6%), neck (32.1%) and upper back (29.9%). The study also found that the pain was widely associated with body mass index (BMI) of employees, exercise habit and job tenure of the workers. Nearly 86% of pre-obese people were likely to experience the MSD pain. Though researchers, Ankit Viramgami of the clinical epidemiology division at ICMR-NIOH, Shyam Pingle, an adjunct professor, IIPH-Gandhinagar, and research associate Sweta Panchal, relied on an office environment for this research, many of the findings can be applied to the WFH as well. The study has been published in the Journal of Comprehensive Health in July this year. The study also explains how poor ergonomic design of computer work station and usage of laptop (compared to desktop) were found associated with high prevalence of MSDs. The study concludes that in order to reduce burden of MSDs, administrative interventions in terms of improving workstation design and regulation of work hours is required. It also recommended training programmes for senistising people on workplace ergonomics and living a healthy life style.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/your-laptop-causes-that-nagging-pain/articleshow/79553425.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: The Arjuna who will be Rajinikanth’s ‘sarathi’ in the virtual world||CHENNAI: At the stroke of 13.30 hours, superstar Rajinikanth announced his political foray. Two men, one well known — Tamil Aruvi Manian and the other less known — R Arjuna Murthy flanked him. Sixty-year-old Arjuna Murthy, a BSc Chemistry graduate, was a confidant of Murasoli Maran for nearly 7 years. Post that, Murthy took a business detour to mentor his daughter Lakshmi Deepa at Yeldi Softcom in creating a near-field-communication-technology-driven payments platform. Negotiations with American Express for a stake sale dropped at the last moment over valuation issues. Since then, Murthy has been busy hobnobbing with central leaders of the BJP. His wife and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman are classmates and this helped forge a closer bond between Murthy and several senior BJP leaders. Before joining Rajinikanth’s proposed political party as its chief coordinator, Murthy was heading the BJP’s state intellectual wing. In fact, he had joined the BJP only recently. “He is good at grasping things and can visualise futuristic stuff. Sometimes they work and sometimes they don’t. For example, he was ahead of his times at NFC. As a technology, it is yet to gain mass acceptance. He has a knack to get the branding right. Political infrastructure is a different cup of tea and the scale in a large state like Tamil Nadu will be a mountain to climb for him,” a close associate who knows Murthy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/the-arjuna-who-will-be-rajinis-sarathi-in-the-virtual-world/articleshow/79554836.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Enforcement Directorate raids houses of PFI leaders||KOZHIKODE: Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials conducted simultaneous raids at the residence of the leaders of the Popular Front of India (PFI) at various places in Kerala and its state committee office in the city on Thursday. Raids were carried out at the houses of PFI chairman O M A Salam and national secretary Nasarudeen Elamaram in Malappuram, national executive committee member P Koya in Kozhikode, national vice-chairman E M Abdurehman in Ernakulam and former state president Karamana Ashraf Moulavi in Thiruvananthapuram. Though there is no official word from the ED, it is believed that the raids were part of the investigation into the allegation that PFI had funded the anti-CAA agitations in Delhi. The ED is probing the allegations under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The agency had reportedly asked the PFI to furnish the details of some bank accounts in January 2020. Uttar Pradesh police had stated that the Delhi-based Malayali journalist Siddique Kappan, who was arrested on October 5 while on his way to Hathras, was a PFI activist and that he had gone to Hathras to create communal trouble. Elamaram told reporters over the phone that a laptop used by his children for studies and a pen drive were seized by the ED. The officials gave in writing that nothing was recovered from the house of Ashraf Moulavi. Bank details and some electronic gadgets were seized from the raid at Ernakulam. Armed CRPF personnel provided protection to the officials. PFI workers gathered outside the premises of Ashraf Moulavi’s house and the office at Kozhikode and shouted slogans against the ED. Protests were staged at various parts of the state. PFI said the raids are part of the RSS agenda to hunt the organization. PFI state general secretary C P Muhammad Basheer, in a statement, said the raids are intended to divert the attention from the nationwide agitation by the farmers. “It is not the first time Muslim organizations are demonised when the state is facing a crisis. Every time the PFI has proven its innocence,” the statement said. Basheer said the government is using the probe agencies that have become puppets to silence those who question its actions. BJP state president K Surendran said there is no political motive behind the raids and the ED was only doing its duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/enforcement-directorate-raids-houses-of-pfi-leaders/articleshow/79552325.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Discoms donate tablets to govt school students||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia distributed tablets among 50 Class XI students from as many government schools on Thursday. The tablets have been donated by discoms Tata Power-DDL, BSES Rajdhani (BRPL) and BSES Yamuna (BYPL). A total of 1,902 students will receive these tablets. Sisodia described tablet as an important tool of education during Covid-19. BRPL CEO Amal Sinha, BYPL CEO PR Kumar and Tata Power-DDL CEO Ganesh Srinivasan were present at the event. “Soon, the corona vaccine will be released, and this pandemic will be a matter of history. But the loss of education that our students are facing cannot be compensated by any vaccine. To minimise it, Delhi government is working consistently,” Sisodia said. Efforts are being made to provide online education to government school students but many lack access to the internet or devices, he added. As the government’s revenue has reduced due to the slowdown, “we urged companies for help under CSR initiatives. We are happy that Tata Power-DDL has given 1,059, BRPL 543 and BYPL 300 tablets”, he said. Sisodia asked students to return the tablets after the examinations so that others can also benefit. Satyam, one of the recipients, said his family shared one phone and he often ended up missing classes if it stopped working. “We had to ask others for help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discoms-donate-tablets-to-govt-school-students/articleshow/79554842.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||History repeating itself? Around 10k trees felled in 2002, too, for expansion of Doon airport, reveals RTI reply||Dehradun: Even as members of civil society and environmental activists are up in arms against the Uttarakhand government's recent decision to de-notify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve which will involve felling of around 10,000 trees for the expansion of Dehradun's Jolly Grant airport, an RTI response has now revealed that as many as 9,358 trees were also felled for the development of the airport in 2002. Majority of the trees felled were teak trees. The RTI was filed by city-based NGO, Citizens for Green Doon soon after TOI first reported that around 10,000 trees will be felled for the ongoing airport expansion. Himanshu Arora, secretary of Citizens For Green Doon (CFGD), said that the response to the RTI query reveals that among the 9,358 trees that were felled in 2002 for the airport, 7,645 were timber (Grade-B teak) which were part of Shivalik Elephant Reserve. “This data suggests that the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, which has a significant elephant population, has already suffered a blow in the name of development and that further felling of trees would be taking away the habitat of the jumbos completely,” he said. Notably, Uttarakhand is home to more than 2000 elephants and the male-to-female sex ratio of elephants in the state is 1:2.5, which is considered as one of the finest, according to the scientists at Wildlife Institute of India. Thus, wildlife enthusiasts are worried that if the habitat is squeezed for a development project, then the jumbos of Himalayas could meet the same fate as their counterparts in Kerala or Karnatka, where the elephant sex ratio is skewed as compared to Uttarakhand. Incidentally, the RTI reply says that the forest department planted around 2.80 lakh saplings in 140 hectare of forest land, which is double the area that was given for airport expansion. Reacting to this, Arora said, “We can plant saplings in one shot but we cannot develop a habitat for the wildlife instantly. It takes several years for a sapling to convert into a tree. Also, the area must have natural ponds, culverts, and other such things to become a conducive habitat, especially for mega-herbivores like elephants.” Notably, another reply to an RTI query filed by CFGD on the backlog in afforestation in Uttarakhand reveals that the state government is still struggling to plant new samplings as mandated under the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) Act. “The RTI response shows that the claims of afforestation by the government are void. The government is yet to plant saplings in 4,809 hectares land space in the Kumaon region, in 3,648 hectares land space in the Garhwal region, and in 635 hectares in the wildlife zone. With the government posting such a laggard performance, how do we trust that the authorities will be able to develop rich habitats for our wildlife in the same amount of space which they are giving away for construction activities?” Arora said. Meanwhile, the authorities of the forest department claim that the plantation drives could not be undertaken due to the unavailability of adequate land. “Some of the identified land was rocky and some had xerophytic conditions that would have made survival of saplings difficult. However, we are reducing the backlog. As of December 3, the backlog is 4,273 hectares in Kumaon, 2,090 hectares in Garhwal, and 382 hectares is in wildlife zones. We are identifying land banks to conduct the tree plantation work in the state at war-footing now,” said JS Suhag, CEO, CAMPA, Uttarakhand forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/history-repeating-itself-around-10k-trees-felled-in-2002-too-for-expansion-of-doon-airport-reveals-rti-reply/articleshow/79552329.cms||Shivani Azad
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man in jail despite bail three months ago||AHMEDABAD: Bharatsinh Solanki, 37, had to stay in prison for three more months after he was granted bail by the court. This was because of a clerical mistake in the court order. After more than three months, the city sessions court rectified its mistake and ordered the release of Solanki on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 15,000 and on the conditions imposed while signing a bail order for a co-accused three months ago. Three persons including Solanki and one Kaushalsinh Gohil, 30, were arrested in June by Vasna police in connection with a racket of mortgaging rented cars. A travel agency and a few car owners complained that their vehicles were taken on rent by the accused but were not returned on completion of the rental period. The cars were rather mortgaged to other people for loans. The racket hit the headlines because the investigation witnessed the suspension of a police inspector, who facilitated the return of the vehicles to their owners, but abstained from registering an FIR. In August, Gohil and Solanki together filed a bail plea in the city sessions court, which ordered their release on bail on August 10. However, Solanki’s name was missing from the court order. He too realized this as a mistake on the part of the court three months later and filed another application under Section 362 of the CrPC, which bestows power on a court to rectify a clerical or arithmetical error. Otherwise, a court is not permitted to make any change to its judgment, once signed. Solanki urged the court to correct the clerical mistake in the earlier order and to mention his name in the order as well as in the operative part of the order. The state government had no objection to this request. Last week, the court rectified the mistake and ordered Solanki’s release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-in-jail-despite-bail-three-months-ago/articleshow/79553436.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cyclone Burevi: District admin urges public to stay indoors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The district administration authorities have made an appeal to the public to stay indoors for the next 48 hours until Cyclone Burevi passes the district.  District collector Navjot Khosa said that as per the current course of the cyclone that formed in the Bay of Bengal, the entire district is at risk. Extreme rainfall accompanied by strong winds is expected to lash the district from Thursday onwards and hence it was not wise to go out of homes under those extreme conditions. Indian meteorological department has issued red alert for southern districts, including Thiruvananthapuram for Thursday as very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is predicted. The district administration has made thorough arrangements to meet potential adversities that the cyclone may cause. The key step being identifying places that can be converted into shelter camps. They have already identified 180 such camps with a total capacity to accommodate 11,050 individuals. “We have directed the local body authorities that they do not have to wait till the rain makes the landfall here and to start shifting dwellers of vulnerable spots at the earliest,” the collector said, adding that the entire coastal region of the district and hilly regions were at most risk. The district administration has opened a 24x7 control room. In case of emergencies, people can seek their service by dialling ‘1077’. On Wednesday, a unit of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) reached the district. The unit, comprising 20 personnel, even visited Amboori, which has a record of major landslide in the past, and inspected the surroundings. The police and fire and rescue services personnel too are ready to meet any exigencies. The fisheries department has made sure that almost all fishermen who have gone to sea for fishing in the previous days have returned. “We have been issuing warnings to them since Sunday. Now, barring around 10 fishermen, who are working in big fishing vessels that remain in sea for weeks, all other fishermen have returned,” said an official of the fisheries department. The department officials had reached out to maximum fishermen who are out in the sea in bigger fishing vessels and advised them to return to the nearest shore. KSEB has opened a control room in the district to address the likely emergencies in connection with Cyclone Burevi, which is expected to pass through the southern part of the district in the coming days. Consumers may contact 0471-2551399 or 9446008756 to appraise the board regarding power disruptions that may happen on account of the cyclone. Consumers may also contact respective section offices to register their complaints. The board, in a statement, requested consumers to avoid visiting section offices in person in view of the Covid-19 emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cyclone-burevi-dist-admin-urges-public-to-stay-indoors/articleshow/79551015.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Muslim scholar gets PhD in Sanskrit from Gujarat University||AHMEDABAD: A Muslim student has obtained a PhD in the Sanskrit language from Gujarat University. Salma Qureshi (26) chose to study the subject of the teacher-disciple tradition of India. Her thesis is titled ‘Puraneshu Nirupita Siksha Paddhati Ekam Adhyayan’. Qureshi was a student of GU’s Sanskrit department. She obtained her doctorate under the guidance of Atul Unagar. She was awarded a gold medal during her MA from Bhavnagar University. She had graduated from Saurashtra University. Her doctoral research took three years, as she had joined the GU’s PhD programme in 2017. She aspires to get into academics. Qureshi said her research is on the subject of the teacher-disciple tradition as depicted in the Vedas, the Upanishadas and the Puranas. She further said, “I was drawn to the Sanskrit language since I was in school. I liked studying the Vedas and the Puranas. My family did not have any objection to my taking up Sanskrit for my higher studies.” Qureshi said since Hindu religious scriptures are in Sanskrit, it is believed that it is the language of the gods. “I believe language has nothing to do with any religion. Students should have the freedom to choose in whatever language they want to study. There was a teacher-disciple tradition in ancient times when students were taught to respect all in society. This element is missing from the present system. I believe Sanskrit should be taught compulsorily. I want to become a teacher of Sanskrit . I want the government to make an effort so the language reaches the common people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/muslim-scholar-gets-phd-in-sanskrit/articleshow/79553460.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||3 UIT engrs held for taking bribe||Ajmer: The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Thursday arrested three senior engineer officers of Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) of Bhilwara while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh for passing bills of development works.Acting on a tip off, a team of ACB Jaipur and Tonk divisions raided offices of UIT Bhilwara and caught the three officers red-handed. Those arrested include superintendent engineer Rameshwar Sharma, senior engineer Satish Sharda and assistant engineer Brahmalal Sharma.DG ACB Bhagwanlal Soni said a complaint was received that the three officers were demanding commission to clear bills of various works done for Bhilwara UIT.A team of ACB led by additional DG Dinesh M N laid a trap and caught the three accused red-handed while accepting Rs.1.25 lakh from the complainant. The ACB team also carried out searches at the residences of the three officers, which continued till late in the night. Sources said another team is looking for the assets of the accused and is also looking into the files they cleared recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-uit-engrs-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/79554845.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamilaruvi Manian — a manof many ideologies, parties||CHENNAI: Tamilaruvi Manian is an orator who could speak for hours on Tamil literature, especially about Bharathiyar and Bharathidasan. But politics was not his cup of tea. He not only failed to have a successful political career, but also was never in the habit of clinging on to one party for long. Drawn by former chief minister of Tamil Nadu K Kamaraj, Manian dabbled in both the Indian National Congress and later in Congress (O). After the demise of Kamaraj, he shifted base to Janata Party. He joined hands with former Karnataka chief minister Ramakrishna Hegde, who launched Lok Sakthi party and became its Tamil Nadu president. There was a time he backed Vaiko for CM post and projected it as his lifetime goal. He travelled across Europe and spoke in support of LTTE. Later, he went back to Congress. He was considered close to G K Moopanar and later his son G K Vasan. When his attempts to haggle a nomination to the Parliament and later to contest from Mylapore assembly seat in 2006 elections did not fructify, he fell out with Vasan. Manian, who had earlier written a series ‘The Killers of Gandhi’ targeting RSS, vowed to work to make the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi India’s PM in 2014. In the same year, he launched ‘Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam’ and voiced harmful effects of liquor. Subsequently, he organized a big rally of Rajinikanth fans in Trichy to show the actor about the power of his fan base. “There are three lakh cadres of Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam ready to support and put up flags in every village of Tamil Nadu, the moment Rajinikanth announces his entry into politics,” Manian said a few months ago. It is now up to Rajinikanth to change the political fortunes of Manian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamilaruvi-manian-a-manof-many-ideologies-parties/articleshow/79554841.cms||D Govardan
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Impure honey; we stand by our findings, maintains CSE||NEW DELHI: Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Thursday said it stood by its recent findings that 10 of the 13 brands, whose honey it had tested for purity, had failed the adulteration tests carried out in Germany. It added that not only the big brands, but the smaller ones, too, were failing the globally accepted Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (NMR) test. “We stand by our findings. Most of these are big brands who have failed the test, but this is not only about them. This is about the consumer’s health. We have shared detailed laboratory results of all the samples on our website,” said CSE, adding that the findings were based on laboratory reports in Germany involving expert interpretation and confirmation of data, a universally accepted practice. “The Indian lab testing parameters set by FSSAI could not detect this evolved adulteration. The fact that samples deliberately adulterated by us up to 50% of syrups passed all the Indian tests is a robust proof of this. So, any claim of meeting all the Indian standards actually holds limited value,” said CSE director general Sunita Narain. Narain added that NMR was an advanced test to detect adulteration with modified sugar syrups, which was being used in several parts of the world. The Indian government was also mandating it since August 2020 for exports. “In fact, we have emphasised that NMR should not be made mandatory because it will only help for a limited time. The business of adulteration is so sophisticated that soon there will be syrups that can also bypass this test,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/impure-honey-we-stand-by-our-findings-maintains-cse/articleshow/79554887.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to give out tabs to 9.5 lakh needy HS students||KOLKATA: The state government has decided to hand out tablet devices to 9.5 lakh students who are set to appear for Higher Secondary examination next year. The move is aimed at bridging the digital divide and providing opportunity to everyone, including the poor and underprivileged, to attend online classes during the pandemic. All secondary schools will also get a free computer for conducting online classes. “There are around 14,000 government and government-aided schools and 636 madrasas where approximately 9.5 lakh students will sit for the higher secondary examination this year. Since there is no on-campus class now, most of these students, who don’t have access to a smartphone or a computer, are missing out. The government has thus decided to give these students tabs. They can use this during their higher studies also,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee said during her meeting with the government employees’ federation at Nabanna on Thursday. The CM also said the 36,000 secondary schools which will receive a computer each to benefit students from Class VIII onwards who can attend online classes. “The only problem now is internet connectivity,” she added. However, the experts differ on the utility of the tabs because the examination is close. “The chief minister has thought of the marginal students and the tabs will open up a new world for them. But there are other issues regarding higher secondary that need to be addressed. The students don’t know the examination date and the question pattern after the reduction of 35% syllabus. There have been no practical class this year and they don’t know when they will be taken,” said general secretary of West Bengal Headmasters’ Association Saugata Basu. “There are only a few months left and it is impossible for the schools to take classes in these few days. So, after getting the tabs, the students might use it for their entertainment, which would be harmful for their studies,” he said. However, retired headmaster of Bidhananagar High School Tarapada Santra said, “The tabs will give an opportunity to the marginal and underprivileged children to get into the online system. If the government is keen enough, it will hardly take one month to complete the distribution and, after that, the teachers will get the chance to take classes for at least three months. It will help them a lot.” “But, there is the problem of net connectivity. The connections are not strong everywhere and students might have to suffer. The government needs to look into this problem,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-to-give-out-tabs-to-9-5l-needy-hs-students/articleshow/79564219.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||As 49th anniv of 1971 war approaches, families of 54 Indian soldiers captured by Pak still hopeful of seeing them again||Nainital: India will celebrate perhaps its biggest military victory after Independence — the 49th anniversary of its win in the 1971 war against Pakistan — in a few days from now, on December 16. While the country will be celebrating, the family members of 54 defence personnel, who were taken prisoners of war (POWs) during the war and are still believed to be in Pakistani jails, will miss their loved ones, about whose fate, nothing much is known. India had captured over 90,000 Pakistani soldiers in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) in the 1971 war and Pakistan, too, had taken over 400 Indian soldiers captive. Though India released all of the Pakistani soldiers after the Simla Agreement of 1972 and Pakistan also released Indian soldiers, 54 soldiers — both from the Indian Army and Air Force — never returned home. In fact, delegations of the family members of the soldiers were taken to Pakistani jails in 1983 and 2007, but they could not locate them. Speaking to TOI, Gurbir Singh Gill, brother of Wing Commander Hersern Singh Gill, said that even five decades after the disappearance of his brother, he is still hopeful. Gill, an ace pilot, nicknamed “high speed” was just 38-years-old when his plane was shot down by the Pakistanis in Sindh in 1971. Gurbir has been on two official delegations to Pakistan and has visited at least 10 of its jails but hasn’t been successful in locating his brother yet. “In September 1983, a delegation of six members from families of missing POWs was sent to Pakistan. Indira Gandhi was then the Prime Minister and Narsimha Rao, the foreign minister. It was arranged that the delegation will be shown Indian prisoners in Pakistan to be gathered in Multan Jail so that the relatives could see if any of them was the missing POW held under assumed identity,” he said. “The delegation saw about 180 Indian prisoners in Multan Jail who had already been cleared for consular access and repatriation instead of all the Indian prisoners in Pakistan. The delegation wanted to personally meet Pakistan president Gen Zia-ul-Haq but was not given this opportunity and came back disappointed,” he added. Another opportunity came in June 2007 when 16 family members of the missing POWs were again taken to Pakistan. Simmi Waraich, daughter of Major SPS Waraich of 15 Punjab, was part of this delegation that went to 10 Pakistani jails. Waraich told TOI that her father had gone missing on the very first day of the battle. “In 1972, we got a letter that alleged he was dead. We never received his remains though,” she said. Waraich said that she was just 3-years-old when her father went missing. “There is no evidence to show that my father or any of the people who went missing in the war are dead. In fact, there has been evidence to the contrary, showing that many of them may still be alive,” she added. Though Pakistan has denied having any POWs in its custody, former Army officials and mediapersons have said that there is enough proof to show that many of these POWs are in Pakistani jails. Colonel NN Bhatia (retd), a veteran of the 1965 and 1971 wars who was detailed by the Army headquarters to debrief the soldiers who returned from Pakistan told TOI that even though Pakistan has denied having kept any POWs, journalists as well as a former US Air Force chief had revealed that several Indians are in Pakistani jails. “Not only this, Ram Swaroop Suri, father of Major Ashok Suri (quartermaster of 5th Assam Regiment), another POW believed to be in Pakistan, claimed to have received letters from his son stating that he was in Karachi jail along with 20 other officers,” he said. Journalist Chander Suta Dogra in her book titled “Missing in Action: The Prisoners Who Did Not Come Back” said that the declassified records of the ministry of external affairs show that during a meeting of the foreign secretaries of India and Pakistan in May 1984, Pakistan had admitted to keeping ‘security prisoners’ with some names similar to those of the missing POWs. Col Bhatia said that when Wing Commander Gill’s plane was shot down on December 13, 1971, the Pakistani radio had announced that he was captured alive. “Captain Ravinder Kaura was also believed dead in action. However, 18 years later, a smuggler named Mukhtiar Singh was released from Pakistani jail. After his release, he said Captain Kaura was in the same jail as he was. Another prisoner released from Pakistan, Roop Lal, has also claimed that numerous Indian POWs are in Pakistan,” Col Bhatia added. The families of the POWs now say that though there are chances that many of the soldiers will be dead by now, the government should share the investigation in each POW case with their respective families. “The Indian government does not declare its soldiers missing in action. While countries like the US and many others do everything in their power to retrieve their soldiers, we have given up on those who took part in the country’s biggest military glory. Now that we are nearing the 50th anniversary, at least the government should follow it up,” Waraich said. Meanwhile, GS Gill is of the view that the government should approach the International Court of Justice. “The government should also go to the International Court of Justice as it has done in the case of Kulbhushan Jadhav,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-49th-anniv-of-1971-war-approaches-families-of-54-indian-soldiers-captured-by-pak-still-hopeful-of-seeing-them-again/articleshow/79552389.cms||Prashant Jha
December 4, 2020||Pune||PMC halts MIT’s hillslope road work to protect portion of Vetal Tekdi||Pune: A stop-work notice has been issued to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) after the college began building a 20ft-wide road from Paud Road side going through the Vetal Tekdi hill slope on survey number 123 without the Pune Municipal Corporation’s permission. Mahesh Chopade,director of planning and development for MIT Group, denied any excavation or construction, but agreed that an “internal road is being extended”. According to Chopade, the entire 13-acre land belongs to MIT. Mangesh Karad, executive director and secretary of MAEER'S MIT Group Pune, said, “The hill is not Vetal Tekdi but “MIT tekdi”. This is a stretch of land that belongs to MIT.”Dattatray Takale, deputy engineer from the PMC’s building permissions department, told TOI, “The notice, under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, was sent to MIT on November 19. We have told them to remove all the debris dumped at the location.”Chopade said they want to enhance the greenery in the area by planting more trees and help them flourish with regular water supply. “For these reasons, a need was felt for a road on the slope for easy access. We were thus extending the internal road,” he added.As per the MRTP Act, such road work cannot be undertaken. “Even if a portion of the tekdi land belongs to MIT, it needs PMC’s sanction for the road work. Secondly, survey 123 is part of a hilltop/ hillslope zone. As per Development Control Rules 2017, all such development activity is restricted, irrespective of the ownership of the land,” Takale added.A visit to the location by TOI revealed that truckloads of gravel and boulders had been dumped on a significant portion of the slope to make a “kutcha road”. Residents of the area said all the rubble was dumped on grassland and trees on the slope, destroying them. “Debris was offloaded over the hard, sheet rock of the hill slope, destroying grass and trees which grew there to provide a base of compacted earth,” a resident said. Others added that the activity will build another road to the college.When it was pointed out to Takale that the institute had not removed the debris, though it had stopped work, Takale said MIT had sought more time to clear it.Chopade said that during summers, the area is prone to fires but is inaccessible to the fire brigade, hence the need for a road. “In future, maybe this internal road could be connected to a larger PMC road, and could become an alternate approach road for the students of MIT,” he added. Chopade is also the registrar of MIT-ADT University.A resident of a society overlooking the affected Vetal Tekdi section said, “The dumping of rubble, huge boulders and stones, usually used for levelling a road, started around November 11. Within 2-3 days of Diwali holidays, when many local people were away from home, and government officials were on leave, there was huge dumping of debris. All the residents are against any unnatural activity on this hill and want to restore and maintain the natural hillslope and the hilltop.”Another resident, who did not wish to be identified, said the landscape is a natural grassland and cannot be altered. “A road like this can create havoc as it can obstruct the natural flow of water during heavy rain. The debris dumping has caused this road to rise to the height of the adjacent bungalows overlooking the tekdi’s affected slope. This could be disastrous.” Others said the slope where the road is being made feeds the largest aquifers of Pune city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-halts-mits-hillslope-road-work-to-protect-portion-of-vetal-tekdi/articleshow/79548705.cms||Neha Madaan
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man leaves IMFL bottle at PG, booked||Ahmedabad: A man who stayed as a paying guest in a Satellite tenement was on Wednesday booked under the Prohibition Act as a bottle of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) was found from the cupboard of his house. Police said the accused, Jainish Patel (23), a resident of Sola, had left the IMFL bottle at Rameshwaram Tenement in Satellite after his three months of stay there. When his landlady, Roma Mirchandani (48), a resident of Bodakdev, came to know about this, she checked the cupboard and found the IMFL bottle there. She informed the police and a complaint was filed on Wednesday. “Earlier, three men were staying in the PG in Rameshwaram Tenement and Patel had come there in the last week of September. He had not even done the rent agreement and suddenly left the place on November 15 while leaving behind his luggage and other articles including the IMFL bottle,” said Mirchandani in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-leaves-imfl-bottle-at-pg-booked/articleshow/79553478.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Social media post: Asst law professor gets pre-arrest bail||Panaji: A local court granted anticipatory bail to assistant professor of V M Salgaocar College of Law Shilpa Singh in a case of hurting religious sentiments. While giving her relief, the court directed her not to threaten the complainant Rajiv Jha and “not to post any instigating post spreading hatred and enmity between the religions and classes”. The court stated that in the event of her arrest, she be released on bail upon furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000. Opposing her bail plea, investigating officer said that her custody was required to find out the motive behind uploading such a post. He stated that there is every possibility that the post uploaded by her may disturb communal harmony in the state and may lead to law and order situation. A first information report was registered on April 21, 2020 following a complaint lodged by Rajiv Jha after her post. She was charged under Section 295-A of Indian Penal Code. After hearing the parties, additional sessions judge Shabnam Shaikh observed, “I am of the opinion that to know the motive for uploading such a post, the custody of the applicant is not required. The applicant has written a letter to the police inspector, Panaji, showing her willingness to co-operate with the investigation and remain present before them as and when called for. If the applicant is available for investigation purpose, then the motive can be found out from the applicant”. The court pulled up the investigating officer for referring Singh as a male in his submissions to the court. “It appears that the investigating officer has just pasted the say of some other bail application in this matter or maybe there is a typographical error,” judge observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/social-media-post-asst-law-professor-gets-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/79554869.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Behala’s reunion with rest of Kolkata||KOLKATA: The inauguration of Majerhat bridge turned into a festival for the neighbourhood on Thursday as residents from different walks of society and of varied age groups came over to witness the engineering marvel. Since Wednesday afternoon, loudspeakers blurted out patriotic songs and those penned by Tagore along a large stretch of Behala, New Alipore and Taratala, prepping up the residents for the big inauguration. Large posters and banners about the inauguration by chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also come up in the neighbourhoods and decorative lights were put along DH Road and New Alipore, giving the feeling of an early Christmas with the revival of the bridge, which has been a lifeline for residents in these parts of the city. “It’s a day we had long been waiting for. The collapse of the bridge had almost cut-off our connection with the rest of the city for a number of days. Later, although alternative routes were developed, the journey has been extremely clumsy and time-consuming. I am looking forward to using the bridge again from this weekend,” said Priyansu Maji, a fashion designer in Behala. The celebrations continued even after the CM inaugurated the bridge and took the first ride on the city’s first-ever cable-stayed road overbridge. A large number of residents — mostly locals from Behala, New Alipore and Taratala — took over the bridge, taking a walk along both the flanks and clicking selfies and posing for photographs with the illuminated bridge in the backdrop. Since Tuesday night, the first time lights on the newly decked up bridge was switched on, photographs of the lit-up cable stayed bridge has been making rounds on WhatsApp groups and social media pages — especially those focussing on Behala. “I was thrilled to see photos of the new bridge. It looks swanky and extremely impressive. I just wish it is strong and safe as it looks. While returning from office, I purposefully took a detour through New Alipore just to take a look at the new bridge. I took some photos and shared them on my friends’ and families’ WhatsApp groups,” said Avijit Roy, a pharma executive and a resident of Kadamtala in Behala. “We have suffered a lot because of the bridge collapse. The bus journey became so cumbersome that I had to buy a scooter but even then, crossing Bailey bridge or New Alipore bridge was a hectic task in the morning peak hours because of the traffic snarl. The inauguration of the bridge is the only bright spot for us in this pandemic year. When I came to know about the inauguration, I couldn’t resist myself from taking a first-hand experience and I loved it,” said Jayraj Singh, who took a walk from one end of the bridge to the other and back before returning home from office. As evident in any festival, a large number of curious onlookers and Trinamool Congress supporters rushed to the bridge site to witness the inauguration in person. Adding up to the climate of fair and festivity, a handful of hawkers also crowded around the bridge to make the most of the sudden build-up of the crowd after so many years. “I used to sell packaged snacks on a pavement near Kolkata Mint before the bridge had collapsed. The collapse left me jobless for a number of days before I started hawking on trains. Now that the bridge is back, I hope to get back to my old spot from next week,” said Akra resident Bipin Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/inauguration-of-majerhat-bridge-is-pandemic-years-only-bright-spot/articleshow/79553480.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 4, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rajinikanth ready for ‘thalaivar’ role, to launch political party in January||CHENNAI: Actor Rajinikanth finally ended the suspense over his political foray on Thursday and said he would launch his political party in January. A formal announcement would be made on December 31, Rajinikanth said, taking to twitter and ending a more than 24-year wait of his fans. “With the massive support of people, we will capture power and provide a corruption-free and transparent government that will be above caste, creed and religion,” Rajinikanth said in a tweet. “Change. We will change everything. Miracle and wonder will happen. If not now, then never,” Rajinikanth tweeted, taking a leaf out of a campaign that his fans have been running over the past few months on the same slogan. As political buzz picked up traction, the actor followed up with a hurriedly convened media conference. “I had made it clear on December 31, 2017 (when he addressed his fans at a gathering at his Raghavendra marriage hall here) that I will surely enter politics in time for the assembly elections. In March this year, I said I wanted to see a wave and uprising from the people wanting a political change. I wanted to undertake a tour of the state to make that happen. But corona prevented that from happening,” Rajinikanth told reporters at his residence. The actor said he has already started the work for launching the party. But it requires gigantic effort and he has given the responsibility to supervise the work to Tamilaruvi Manian, chief of Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam. “Despite criticism, he has stood by me ever since I made it clear that I will enter politics,” the actor said. He also said he has appointed R Arjuna Murthy, who was in the BJP till a few days ago, as the chief coordinator. ‘Time to change Tamil Nadu’s fate has come’“I hope you all know that I underwent a renal transplant. When transplants are done, the body’s immunity level is brought down. Hence, doctors advised me against going out and meeting people at large,” he said. “If one has to face Covid, the body’s immunity level should be very high. I thought about it. It is because of the prayers of the people of Tamil Nadu that my life was saved when I underwent treatment in Singapore. I will be happy to give away my life for the sake of the people of this state,” Rajinikanth said seeking to drive home the point that he would campaign for a political change in the state even if it demands risking his health. “The time to change the fate of Tamil Nadu has come. Change of government and change in politics will happen. I am only a small tool. It is the people, who have to usher in the change by extending your support. If I win, it will be your victory. If I lose, it will also be that of the people,” he said. Rajinikanth also remembered to thank the district secretaries of Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM), with whom he held a meeting this Monday, who placed his health much above his political entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajini-ready-for-thalaivar-role-to-launch-political-party-in-jan/articleshow/79554876.cms||D Govardan
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Raje loyalists flay Beniwal over threat to withdraw support||Jaipur: Some BJP leaders loyal to former chief minister Vasundhara Raje had taken to task Rashtriya Loktantik Pary (RLP) leader Hanuman Beniwal, an NDA ally, over his threat of withdrawal of support to NDA over farm laws. Former minister and BJP MLA from Chhabra Pratap Singh Singhvi and former MLAs Prahlad Gujjar and Bhawani Singh Rajawat, Vidhya Shanker Nandwana in a joint statement asked why the party is tolerating the shenanigans of Beniwal.Former BJP president Ashok Parmani also joined the chorus and condemned Beniwal on Thursday. Incidentally, all these leaders are Raje loyalists. Beniwal, a former BJP leader, left the party after differences with Raje.Beniwal formed the new political outfit before the Lok Sabha polls and got elected from the Nagaur seat with the support of BJP and had three MLAs in the assembly.They pointed out that the BJP did not require his support and it was only Beniwal who approached the BJP for support.The leaders pointed out that RLP influence is confined to a district and its influence is confined to a caste. They also accused Beniwal of indulging in mudslinging on former chief minister and popular leader Raje.The leaders in a letter to party president J P Nadda and home minister Amit Shah said that the RLP MP is giving threat of withdrawal of support to the NDA on farm laws daily.They said in Rajasthan the BJP has strong popular support and only with a difference of 15 lakh votes the party lost power in the last assembly elections, they said.Besides, RLP had put up its own candidates in the ongoing panchayat polls against BJP which is gross indiscipline on the part of Beniwal. They said the party losing the support of three RLP MLAs do not make any difference for the party in the state.Beniwal in a tweet said, “The BJP leaders should not forget that it is in the opposition in the state and instead of targeting me they should attack the state government on its failures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-loyalists-flay-beniwal-over-threat-to-withdraw-support/articleshow/79554874.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Seva Dal holds ‘sadbuddhi’ yajnas in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The Congress’ Seva Dal on Thursday performed ‘sadbuddhi (good sense) yajnas’ at district and block headquarters across the state in support of Punjab and Haryana farmers protesting in New Delhi. They also submitted memorandum in the name of President Ram Nath Kovind to Jaipur district collector demanding revocation of Centre’s three farm bills. State Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra on Thursday tweeted, “In order to strengthen the voice of farmers against Modi government’s black laws, I will visit Hanumangarh and Ganganagar on December 6 and 7. I will meet the farmers there.” The memorandum was submitted to collector Antar Singh Nehra by Seva Dall state president Hem Singh Shekhawat and district president Zakir Khan. They wished that good sense would prevail and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah would take a decision in favour of the farmers. Meanwhile, several farmers’ organisations in Rajasthan are heading towards Delhi in support of Punjab and Haryana farmers. In many parts of the state, the farmers blocked the national highways, roads and bypasses demanding revocation of the farm bills. In order to strengthen the farmers’ movement in Delhi, Hadauti Kisaan Union has also decided to launch a movement in the state from December 16. The Haryana police on Wednesday stopped many farmers from Alwar’s Shahjahanpur, who were heading towards Delhi to protest the Centre’s farm bills, on the state border. The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment). According to the farmers, these bills will bring an end to the minimum support price system and will leave them at the mercy of private corporates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/seva-dal-holds-sadbuddhi-yajnas-in-state/articleshow/79554912.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||‘Regularise services of lifeguards’||Panaji: Congress has demanded that the state government must regularise the services of lifeguards, particularly those protesting in the state capital for their rights. The party has expressed solidarity with the agitating lifeguards and said that a grave injustice is being done to the men who helped save lives on Goa’s beaches. State Congress president Girish Chodankar met with the lifeguards who are fighting under the banner of the All Goa Marine Lifesaving Guards Union. “These lifeguards put their own life to risk to save others, but in return what they are getting is injustice from this government. The saviours should not be treated like this,” Chodankar said. Chodankar said that it is the duty of the government to protect the livelihoods of the lifeguards, who put their own lives at risk. “Goa will lose tourism business if the government fails to deploy these lifeguards,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/regularise-services-of-lifeguards/articleshow/79554893.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||CU, JU go online to check docus of new students||Kolkata: City universities have started the process of document verification for the new batch of undergraduate students. While Jadavpur University (JU) will be verifying documents of the new undergraduate students over live video meetings to detect discrepancies in information provided at the time of the admission, Calcutta University (CU) has already set up a website where principals of affiliated colleges must upload scanned copies of marksheets and other testimonials. Authorities at Presidency University will take a decision once the admission process is over. JU authorities have allotted separate dates and time slots for the meetings where authorities will check marksheets of classes X and XII along with caste, income and disability certificates to compare them to papers submitted during application. “Till last year, there would be physical verification of the documents. That is not possible due to the pandemic this time,” said an official. Verification of documents is one of the most important aspects of detecting frauds. For example, universities have detected several candidates submitting false caste and disability certificates to take admission in reserved seats. “A roster has been drawn up for different subjects, Students will join the video meeting five minutes before the allotted time and display the certificates,” said a JU official. CU has extended the date for the colleges to upload students’ certificates and other information for registration till December 31. Earlier, the principals of many colleges had approached the university requesting an extension of the November 30 deadline. “We have asked students to mail us all the documents,” said a principal of a Calcutta University-affiliated college. Presidency University is in the process of filling up some vacant seats. “Only a few seats are left. A decision on how we will verify the documents will be taken soon,’ said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-ju-go-online-to-check-docus-of-new-students/articleshow/79554846.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||BPL category benefits for disabled people soon: CM||Jaipur: On the International Day of Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) on Thursday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the state government will soon decide on giving benefits under BPL (below poverty line) category to Persons with Disabilities, as promised in the Congress party’s Jan Ghoshna Patra. He said after ensuring increase in reservation for PwDs in various state-run schemes from 3 per cent to 4 per cent and also increasing their pension amount, this would be a big relief for the PwDs. He said this while addressing the state level Divyangjan Samman ceremony on the occasion of International Day of Persons with Disabilities on Thursday.Many PwDs were facilitated at the district level for their work towards welfare of specially-abled persons in the state. The CM said that it is the government’s priority to ensure proper education, developing skills and making the PwDs self-reliant. “For this, facilities and assistance like special equipment, scholarships, smartphones, grants and loans are being provided to them. Along with this, they are getting pension of Rs 750 to Rs 1,500. Around 5.61 lakh PwDs in the state are getting benefits under the pension scheme,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bpl-category-benefits-for-disabled-people-soon-cm/articleshow/79554877.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling case: ‘Swapna Suresh’s statements implicate Sivasankar’||KOCHI: On Thursday, commissionerate of customs (preventive) submitted in court that Swapna Suresh, the accused in gold smuggling case, gave statements implicating former principal secretary M Sivasankar in currency smuggling case while cementing ‘strong links to the gold smuggling case’. The court extended their custody period till 5pm on Tuesday. The revelation in the currency smuggling case could mean that Sivasankar may be made an accused in this case. Customs also filed an objection report against his bail application in the gold smuggling case. This development came when sources said that the likelihood of customs turning both Swapna and Sarith as approvers was high. Both are giving confession statements under CrPc Section 164 in gold case and later in the currency smuggling case on Dec 7. Also, advocate Geo Paul, representing Swapna, dropped her case and a new advocate will handle her case now. This was submitted in two courts considering the cases of enforcement directorate and customs. The custody extension application also added that the new disclosures of Swapna and Sarith in currency smuggling case has substantial implications on gold smuggling case. Customs told the court that two more phones of Sivasankar were retrieved. “The petitioner was using two more phones, but had denied their existence. The phones were surrendered by his wife before customs. This clearly shows the accused is not divulging the truth even after prolonged questioning,” customs submitted in the report opposing bail. Customs alleged that the petitioner pretended illness and got himself admitted in a hospital, where his wife was working, to avoid arrest. The agency further said that the petitioner is a highly influential person and was not reluctant to use his influence. “He has an intimate connection with the prime accused. Investigation found that they were all receiving aid, advice and help of the petitioner (Sivasankar),” said the report. The report said that the petitioner had intense connection abroad and had visited several countries, while in office, with some of the prime accused. The agency said that Sivasankar, according to media reports and other sources, was part of official dealings that were either controversial or allegedly tainted with corruption. Ultimately even the chief minister was compelled to place him under suspension, customs said. The custody application also added that the duo made allegations against specific foreign nationals, who were involved in the currency smuggling case. Their passport details, travel details, location and duration of stay in India and persons they interacted with during their stay are being identified to assess the nature of visit and validate the claims made by the duo. Customs added that more individuals who were aware or abetted the smuggling of foreign currency will be summoned, interrogated and confronted with Swapna and Sarith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swapnas-statements-implicate-sivasankar/articleshow/79552397.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Old route restored, citizens hope to get back quality time with family||KOLKATA: Residents of Behala and New Alipore are looking forward to revive the much-needed family time that has long been lost to a cumbersome daily travel to and from office along diverted routes that they have had to undertake since the bridge had collapsed in September 2018. Office-goers and students living in neighbourhoods in the south western part of Kolkata were forced to change their daily routine almost overnight as travel time increased by almost three times and so did the travel expenses. “I have always taken care of my son’s studies. But since 2018, I could hardly sit with him. The time I used to devote to my son is now taken up to travel to and from my office. Everyday I return late at night nowadays. I hope things will be back to normal from this weekend,” said Atreyi Bose, a resident of Behala. For Ishani Sarkar, a Class IX student at a reputable English-medium school in Esplanade area, the bridge collapse immediately increased her travel time by two hours. “I became the last drop and first pick-up in the pool car that ran on a diverted route via Behala Chowrasta, Tollygunge and Bhowanipore. The roads were congested and the journey itself used to tire me out. I am thankful that once the schools resume, the journey will no longer be that taxing,” said Sarkar, a resident of Arkedia in Behala. The situation became even difficult for residents of New Alipore — the immediate neighbourhood on the southern end of the bridge from where a new road was carved out as the best alternative to the bridge and traffic flow and pollution level suddenly increased manifold in the otherwise peaceful and less motorized area. “Suddenly, we got distanced from all around us. Nobody came to our place, we could not go to anywhere. What was an apparent five-minute drive earlier now become a painstaking ride for more than an hour. Even at home, we were not at peace. With the pollution level rising and constant honking, our lives turned hell. Things will hopefully change for the better now,” said Vijay Chowdhury, a New Alipore resident. The bridge collapse had also posed difficulty for hundreds of patients who had a tough time visiting the hospital zone in the Ekbalpore and Alipore area. “I had to go for a regular check-up at a private hospital in Ekbalpore. In the absence of the bridge, the half-an-hour journey had become a one-and-a-half hour’s detour. Thankfully, from this month, the situation will be different,” said Arati Kundu, a resident of Behala Roy Bahadur Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/old-route-restored-citizens-hope-to-get-back-quality-time-with-family/articleshow/79553514.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Export business: Two traders held for forging documents in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police has unearthed a racket in which several businessmen allegedly used forged documents to obtain export-trade benefits from Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Two west Delhi businessmen — Ankit Kapur (33) from Tilak Nagar and Naveen Gupta (34) from Uttam Nagar — were arrested on Wednesday and police suspect involvement of a few DGFT and bank officials too. According to EOW joint commissioner O P Mishra, the kingpin of the gang is a US-based businessman, Angad Pal Singh, who is being probed by the federal police there on money laundering charges. An FIR was registered in 2017 when a private bank had reported submission of 467 fake foreign inward remittance certificates (FIRCs) at its Naraina branch by 18 account holders belonging to 17 firms. All these FIRCs, Mishra said, ran into crores of rupees and were purportedly issued from Corporation Bank, Bhikaji Cama Place in Delhi. The government exchequer lost approximately Rs 158 crore. “These benefits were issued by DGFT in the form of licence/authorisation letters called SCRIP. These licences are transferable in open market and required to be used at port/ICD for payment of import duty,” the joint CP said. A verification from Corporation Bank revealed that all FIRCs were fake, police said. The bank accounts mentioned in the FIRCs were registered in the name of other people/companies, an officer said. “Kapur and Gutpa had formed two export firms in 2013. But without receiving foreign currency against exports, they created fake FIRCs and filed these with trade documents for processing,” Mishra said. Thereafter, Singh, in connivance with DGFT officials, got trade benefits, police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/export-biz-2-traders-held-for-forging-documents/articleshow/79554924.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Officials harassing poll candidates, alleges BJP||Jaipur: The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday lodged a complaint with state election commission (SEC) alleging that a few police officials and some district-level officials were harassing its candidates contesting panchyat samiti and municipal body elections in Dholpur, and Jhalawar districts. The party submitted a representation to state election commissioner P S Mehra and demanded removal of these officials from election duty. One complaint is against SHO Bari, another is against a compounder appointed in Jhalawar and the third complaint is against a police official in Rajakhera, Dholpur. The campaigning for fourth phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members ended on Thursday. The polling for the fourth phase will be held on December 5. In the fourth phase, voting will be held for 908 members of 46 panchayat samitis in 21 districts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officials-harassing-poll-candidates-alleges-bjp/articleshow/79554898.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Snarl-free Kolkata with new flyovers, Metro network in two years: West Bengal CM||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee laid out her vision of a snarl-free Kolkata on Thursday, announcing several new flyover projects. Commissioning the new Majerhat bridge in the evening, the CM announced the Ganesh Avenue-New Market, Tollygunge-Taratala flyover, Tollygunge-Anwar Shah Road and the Park Circus-Ballygunge overpasses. “In two years’ time, people won’t face traffic snarls, when the flyovers are built and the Metro projects completed,” Mamata said. The CM also hit out at the Centre, reiterating that the bridge, which she has christened ‘Jai Hind Setu’ ahead of Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary, would have been completed nine months ago had railways not sat on permissions. “We could have completed the construction nine months ago if railways had given the necessary permissions,” Mamata said. At 5.11pm on Thursday, she pressed a button to unveil the new cable-stayed bridge, which she said could bear 385MT weight against the old one’s 155MT. A span of the old bridge, which has been replaced with the new one, had collapsed around 4.40pm on September 4, 2018. Three persons died and several were injured as cars and buses flew off the crashing bridge. The road overbridge (ROB) runs over the Majerhat railway station, linking the city centre with New Alipore, the densely-populated Behala and vast areas of south-west suburbs of South 24 Parganas. Empathizing with the everyday agony of thousands of commuters ever since the Behala lifeline was cut off, the CM said “sorry” again and again. “The day the bridge fell, we decided to build a new one as soon as possible. PWD completed its share of the demolition in seven days. But we had to lobby daily for permissions, which were needed because railway tracks pass below the bridge. I have nothing against the railway officials. But the people sitting in Delhi have been responsible for the prolonged suffering,” she said. Referring to last Thursday’s demonstration by BJP supporters at the Majerhat site against the bridge’s delayed opening, the CM said: “Those who had staged the show here…they should know that this Metro project next to the bridge is my idea, along with all the other Metro corridors all over the city… Do they even know what the people of Behala have been going through? Do they know how many wards there are in Behala?” she fumed. The CM said the state government has spent Rs 312 crore on the new bridge. Of this, Rs 34 crore was paid to the railways and Rs 77 lakh to KoPT. “Why has railways taken Rs 34 crore from us?” she asked. The chief minister was the first to use the new four-lane bridge. “Let me check if the project has been executed properly,” she said, walking for five minutes to her car, along with ministers Firhad Hakim, Partha Chatterjee, Aroop Biswas and other dignitaries. Around 5.20pm, her convoy rolled along the north-bound flank. Shortly after the CM commissioned the bridge, people started strolling on the 650m length of it, taking selfies against the lit-up cables. Last Friday, Eastern Railway (ER) gave the state PWD the go-ahead to open the bridge. PWD is implementing the bridge reconstruction project. ER’s final clearance came after Mamata held a media conference on the delayed railway approvals and the BJP-orchestrated protest at Majerhat. At Thursday’s event, the CM appealed to people to wear helmets while riding on the bridge and desist from dirtying it. She asked police commissioner Anuj Sharma to organize free distribution of helmets from the community development to those who couldn’t afford it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/snarl-free-city-with-new-flyovers-metro-network-in-two-years-cm/articleshow/79553508.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot demands cut in prices of diesel & petrol||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday hitting out at the Centre on fuel price hike demanded to reduce the rates of diesel, petrol and LPG gas cylinders to pass on the benefits of low rates of crude oil to the people reeling under inflation and Covid. Gehlot said that the crude oil is below $50 per barrel in the international market, but the Centre has been continuously increasing the price of diesel and petrol. “When elections are held in a state, the central government stabilises the prices of diesel and petrol, but increases the prices again as soon as the elections are over,” Gehlot tweeted on the hypocrisy of the centre. He said that the increase of Rs 50 in LPG gas cylinder for domestic consumers has disturbed the family budget of people. “The central government has stopped subsidy on LPG cylinders and the beneficiaries of Ujjawala scheme are also finding it difficult to refill cylinders. Crude oil prices in the international market were $120 per barrel during the UPA government, but petrol and diesel prices were stabilized at Rs 70 per litre.” “During the Corona time, the government should have helped the people, but the Modi government is putting mercilessly over burdening the people reeling under inflation and sky rocketing prices. The central government should reduce the prices of diesel, petrol and LPG to give the benefit of lower price of crude oil to the common man,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-demands-cut-in-prices-of-diesel-petrol/articleshow/79554929.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun convinces slum residents to pay tax, gets Rs 1.5 crore in first month||DEHRADUN: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC), in the first month of an extensive exercise to bring unregulated residential areas into the taxation fold, has managed to collect Rs 1.5 crore in house taxes from slums in the city. “We have identified 40,000 such households. The backlog, if taken into account, would go back to three years. So far, more than 12,000 people from the slum areas have deposited their back log," DMC's tax superintendent Dharmesh Painuly said. There are more than 100 slum areas, including Rajpur, Adhoiwala, Ajabpur Kala, Kawli and Dharampur, which had house tax arrears pending for the past two to three years which are being cleared now. The DMC is also accepting online payments from these residents. “We have been able to collect a substantial amount so far. We hope to achieve the maximum collection this year. The officials are holding awareness drives to explain to the people how this helps them,” Painuly added. Property tax collection from private houses and commercial properties forms a major component of the DMC’s revenue which is utilized for various development projects, in addition to the sanitation services across 100 wards of the city. On the completion of two years of his tenure on Wednesday, Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama had announced a number of new projects that will be completed in 2021. The 72 villages under 32 new wards will also get the facility of door-to-door garbage collection from next month. In addition, a fresh survey will be conducted in all the 100 wards to identify street vendors who will be registered under DMC and will be allowed to be stationed at the city's 21 smart vending zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-convinces-slum-residents-to-pay-tax-gets-rs-1-5-cr-from-12k-houses-in-a-month/articleshow/79552426.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 4, 2020||Goa||Verify staff data to prevent fraud: EPFO to employers||Panaji: In order to ensure that employees get their pension benefits on time and to prevent fraud, companies should verify details of their workers before uploading the data on the Employees’ provident fund organization portal, said regional provident fund commissioner Ashwini Kumar Gupta. Gupta also urged employees to check their online PF account frequently, especially their KYC (know your customer) details. “EPFO appeals to employers to verify details of workers with documentary evidences before digitally updating the details in KYC,” said Gupta. “EPF subscribers, check your KYC details and the phone number registered in your universal account number. In case you notice any irregularity in your PF account and KYC details, immediately report it to your employer and also notify EPFO about the same to keep our eye on unauthorised activity happening in your PF account.” In October and November, EPFO has settled 34,053 claims and disbursed Rs 97 crore to PF members. Aside from the 189 pension claims settled in the last two months, the regional office also settled pension claims and handed over the pension payment order on the day of superannuation for eight employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/verify-staff-data-to-prevent-fraud-epfo-to-employers/articleshow/79554914.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Pune||PMC halts MIT’s hillslope road work to protect portion of Vetal Tekdi||Pune: A stop-work notice has been issued to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) after the college began building a 20ft-wide road from Paud Road side going through the Vetal Tekdi hill slope on survey number 123 without the Pune Municipal Corporation’s permission. Mahesh Chopade,director of planning and development for MIT Group, denied any excavation or construction, but agreed that an “internal road is being extended”. According to Chopade, the entire 13-acre land belongs to MIT. Mangesh Karad, executive director and secretary of MAEER'S MIT Group Pune, said, “The hill is not Vetal Tekdi but “MIT tekdi”. This is a stretch of land that belongs to MIT.”Dattatray Takale, deputy engineer from the PMC’s building permissions department, told TOI, “The notice, under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, was sent to MIT on November 19. We have told them to remove all the debris dumped at the location.”Chopade said they want to enhance the greenery in the area by planting more trees and help them flourish with regular water supply. “For these reasons, a need was felt for a road on the slope for easy access. We were thus extending the internal road,” he added.As per the MRTP Act, such road work cannot be undertaken. “Even if a portion of the tekdi land belongs to MIT, it needs PMC’s sanction for the road work. Secondly, survey 123 is part of a hilltop/ hillslope zone. As per Development Control Rules 2017, all such development activity is restricted, irrespective of the ownership of the land,” Takale added.A visit to the location by TOI revealed that truckloads of gravel and boulders had been dumped on a significant portion of the slope to make a “kutcha road”. Residents of the area said all the rubble was dumped on grassland and trees on the slope, destroying them. “Debris was offloaded over the hard, sheet rock of the hill slope, destroying grass and trees which grew there to provide a base of compacted earth,” a resident said. Others added that the activity will build another road to the college.When it was pointed out to Takale that the institute had not removed the debris, though it had stopped work, Takale said MIT had sought more time to clear it.Chopade said that during summers, the area is prone to fires but is inaccessible to the fire brigade, hence the need for a road. “In future, maybe this internal road could be connected to a larger PMC road, and could become an alternate approach road for the students of MIT,” he added. Chopade is also the registrar of MIT-ADT University.A resident of a society overlooking the affected Vetal Tekdi section said, “The dumping of rubble, huge boulders and stones, usually used for levelling a road, started around November 11. Within 2-3 days of Diwali holidays, when many local people were away from home, and government officials were on leave, there was huge dumping of debris. All the residents are against any unnatural activity on this hill and want to restore and maintain the natural hillslope and the hilltop.”Another resident, who did not wish to be identified, said the landscape is a natural grassland and cannot be altered. “A road like this can create havoc as it can obstruct the natural flow of water during heavy rain. The debris dumping has caused this road to rise to the height of the adjacent bungalows overlooking the tekdi’s affected slope. This could be disastrous.” Others said the slope where the road is being made feeds the largest aquifers of Pune city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-halts-mits-hillslope-road-work-to-protect-portion-of-vetal-tekdi/articleshow/79554938.cms||Neha Madaan
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 20-hour operation fails to save boy trapped in borewell||KANPUR: The four-year-old boy who fell into a 60-foot deep uncovered borewell in Budhaura village in Kulpahad police area in Bundelkhand’s Mahoba district on Wednesday could not survive. His body was recovered by the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) after a 20-hour-long operation on Thursday. A borewell is a narrow shaft drilled into the ground to extract water. Ghanendra, the son of Bhagirath Kushwaha of Budhaura village, had fallen into the borewell when he was playing with his sister Rekha while their father was irrigating the fields. The incident had occurred at around 1 pm on Wednesday. Later, a parallel pit was being dug to reach Ghanendra, and oxygen, besides biscuits and water being supplied to him. Doctors at the district hospital said he could have been dead for at least 6 hours before his body was taken out of the borewell. “We have examined the child and we found that it has been more than six hours since the child is dead,” said Dr Gulsher Ahmad medical in-charge district hospital. The SDRF team that arrived from Lucknow used specialised equipment to dig a pit parallel to the borewell in which the boy had fallen. They also lowered cameras into the borewell to check for any signs of movement or life. The team finally pulled the boy out at around 8:45 on Thursday morning and rushed him to the district hospital where he was declared dead by the doctors. The borewell into which the child fell was dug by the boy’s father in July to try and find water for their fields. However, it was left abandoned after no sign of water was found there. “We are sorry about the passing of the boy. Our condolences to his grieving parents and his family. Best technically possible measure was being adopted to rescue the child, but unfortunately, the boy couldn’t be saved. As part of the operation, a parallel pit was dug along the borewell hole with the help of six JCB machines and oxygen was supplied into it and a camera was also used to locate the boy, but the efforts went in vain. SDRF members, police personnel and firemen toiled hard all throughout the night and also consulted experts,” said district magistrate Satyendra Kumar. Prayers were also held by the villagers in the temple for safe rescue of the toddler. A pall of gloom meanwhile descended on the village following the boy’s death. Ghanendra, besides two sisters, was the only son of his parents. The body was later handed over to the parents. The body was laid to rest in the village. According to the officials, the borewell into which the boy fell has been closed and the hole drilled near it to rescue the boy would also be closed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/20-hour-op-fails-to-save-boy-trapped-in-borewell/articleshow/79555852.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 4, 2020||Madurai||‘Cracker ban extension won’t affect industry’||Madurai: The decision by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to ban the sale and use of crackers in Delhi-NCR and all cities and towns across the country where ambient air quality falls in the ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories till the pandemic comes to an end, will not affect their industry, cracker manufacturers from Virudhunagar district have said. The NGT on Wednesday said that green crackers can be used for a limited period of time from 11.55pm to 12.30am, during Christmas and New Year, as directed by the Supreme Court, only at places where air quality is at ‘moderate’ or below category. NGT order also says that any victim of pollution can approach the district magistrate (collectors) for compensation by showing evidence of individual damage and the person responsible for it. President of the Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association (TANFAMA), P Ganesan said that the NGT had extended the ban only in few cities and towns. “Of the total annual consumption of crackers, only 5% of crackers is consumed during Christmas and New Year every year. Since the ban is only in a few cities, it would not affect the fireworks industry,” said Ganesan. However, general secretary of The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers Association (TIFMA) T Kannan said that crackers play a major role during Christmas and New Year celebrations. He said that fancy (aerial) crackers are mostly used to celebrate these occasions. The extension of ban on use and sale of crackers during Christmas and New Year would slightly affect the industry as the existing stock would be used and no new purchases would be made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cracker-ban-extension-wont-affect-industry/articleshow/79555849.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 4, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Kamal Nath leads Congress preparations for civic polls||BHOPAL: State Congress has started preparations for the upcoming local body polls with the appointment of observers. PCC chief Kamal Nath is also learnt to be taking meetings of office-bearers and senior leaders ahead of the urban polls. PCC general secretary (administration) Rajiv Singh said that senior leaders and MLAs will be given responsibilities as observers – their job will be to dig out issues in areas going for civic polls and selection of winnable candidates. “MLAs have been told to start election preparations in wards that fall under their respective constituencies. Candidates for corporators will be decided after observers speak to MLAs, ward leaders and party workers,” Singh said. Singh added that candidates for mayors and chairpersons of municipal corporations have been withheld till the Election Commission announces the reservation quota. With petrol prices having crossed the Rs90/litre mark this week, state Congress under Nath’s leadership is soon going to launch a major movement against the BJP government on the issue. Senior party leaders claimed that petrol-diesel price hike is an issue that affects the everyday life of citizens. The dates for the major offensive against the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government will be announced shortly. Congress leaders are also of the view that fuel prices will establish the party’s connectivity with people. The party has also formulated certain guidelines on the selection of candidates and distribution of tickets for mayors, chairpersons of municipalities, town councils and corporators. Other than the recommendation of observers, MLAs and workers at the ward levels, one of the main considerations will be loyalty to the Congress party. After 26 sitting party MLAs quit and joined BJP, the state Congress is wary of giving tickets to people who may get influenced by the ruling BJP. Ticket aspirants will be tested and their performance in previous polls will be taken into account. Qualities such as whether they stood steadfastly with the Congress party and worked for the victory of party candidates will also be taken into account. Congress will also check their credentials and whether they are in touch with BJP leaders or have raised issues and voiced their opinions against BJP’s policies. Sources in Congress said that youth will be given preference as candidates for the civic polls but clean image and dedication to the party will be the major considerations. There are 16 municipal corporations going for polls and in the last elections, BJP emerged victorious in all of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-leads-cong-preparations-for-civic-polls/articleshow/79553520.cms||Suchandana Gupta
December 4, 2020||Kochi||CBI seeks govt support to set up office at Kasaragod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has written to the state government to provide facilities for opening its office in Kasaragod as part of continuing its probe in the Periya double murder case. This is the second time that the agency is requesting the government to provide logistical support for undertaking the probe, after the high court verdict ordering the case to be handed over to the CBI. Earlier, the agency had written to the government on the same matter when the high court had ordered that the case be handed over to the CBI, but the government had refused to acknowledge. In the wake of the Supreme Court turning down the state government’s plea on Tuesday, the agency has once again sought the state government’s assistance in setting up its office in Kasaragod. It is not the first instance that the agency is facing resistance from the state in setting the stage for investigation. It had faced similar issues when it had taken up cases that involved the CPM cadres in the past. On July 28, 2016, the public works department had issued an order cancelling the free accommodation facilities to the CBI sleuths with effect from August 14, 2014. Interestingly, the agency had taken up cases of Kathiroor Manoj murder in September 2014, Payyoli Manoj murder case in January 2016 and Ramabhadran murder case in Kollam in October 2015, in which CPM activists were the prime accused. The government order then had not only cancelled the facility given by the government for CBI in PWD rest houses, but had also decided to seek rent for using the facilities since August 14, 2014. The government had denied the facilities despite the HC directing the state government to give necessary protection and assistance for the CBI in carrying out the investigation, while handing over the investigation of Kathiroor Manoj murder case to the agency. In the Periya case too, the agency has been facing several roadblocks created by the state government,even after re-registering the case on October 23 last year based on the HC verdict. The government had refused to hand over the case diary and other relevant documents, despite the agency writing nine letters to various officials ranging from DSP (crimes) who was the investigating officer of the case to the state police chief, requesting to hand over the original case diary and documents. The agency even had to issue a notice under Section 91 of the criminal procedure code (CrPC), which is a step prelude to invoking Section 93 of the CrPC that empowers the agency to undertake a search and seize the documents after obtaining a warrant from the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbi-seeks-govt-support-to-set-up-office-at-kgod/articleshow/79552415.cms||KP Saikiran
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Slow winds to worsen Delhi air quality further||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the capital remained in very poor category zone on Thursday with an Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 341. It is likely to deteriorate further this week due to adverse weather conditions. As the season of farm fires is almost over, with only a few fire counts, the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 was negligible on Thursday. Track the pollution level in your cityKuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD) and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The dispersion of pollutants was hampered by the low wind speed. The average wind speed on Thursday was 6 kmph. Though calm wind prevailed over the region in the night, it is predicted that the wind speed will remain below 5 kmph during the day from Friday to Sunday,” he said. “The wind direction is also likely to shift to easterly in the next two days and local pollutants will accumulate in the transition phase.” The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said on Thursday, “The overall air quality has improved compared with Wednesday as forecast, but is still in very poor zone.” SAFAR said that its satellites counted 249 farm fires, and the share of stubble burning PM2.5 in Delhi’s air was estimated as 2% for Thursday. “The air quality is likely to marginally deteriorate for the next two days within very poor category, owing to calm winds. AQI is likely to marginally improve on Sunday due to better ventilation,” said the forecast body. According to IMD, the minimum temperature recorded on Thursday was 8.2 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal, while the maximum temperature was 27.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees above normal. Met officials said that shallow fog is forecast for Friday morning, with visibility between 500-1,000 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/slow-winds-to-worsen-city-air-quality-further/articleshow/79554943.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||No clue about body of murdered girl||Ahmedabad: There have been no leads yet in the murder of a girl of between 15 and 20 years in the Meghaninagar area. Her body was found next to railway tracks with her face burnt, ostensibly to hide her identity. Inspector J L Chauhan of Meghaninnagar police station said they flashed the picture of the body to police stations across the state. “We have also roped in forensic experts to ascertain her exact age and are inquiring about girls or woman of this age group going missing. It seems that she was killed somewhere else and the killers or killer dumped her body at the place it was found,” he added. Chauhan added that there are some 100 houses near where the body was found. “If she was killed at the spot somebody would have noticed or heard screams. “Nobody here heard anything and we thus think she was murdered somewhere else. We are waiting for the forensic and postmortem reports,” he said. Ghamandisinh Parihar, 49, a resident of Meghaninagar, noticed the body in bushed near the tracks at about 11.30am on on November 1. “He informed the police control room about the body. Our team rushed to the spot and found that a lot of people had gathered at the spot but nobody could recognize the woman,” said a police official. Police sources said though the body was not highly decomposed, which suggests she was killed no more than 48 hours earlier, she had been ablaze and remnants of her clothes had stuck to the body. “We don’t rule that she may have been stabbed first and then burned to hide her identity,” a police source said. Inspector JL Chauhan said they have asked for missing persons details from police stations across the city but no information has come in yet. Police sources said the biggest impediment in the case is that there are no CCTV cameras at the site or even near it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-clue-about-body-of-murdered-girl/articleshow/79553518.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham road width: Wider roads required to transport weapons, heavy equipment along border, say Army personnel, support def min request to SC||Nainital: Reacting to the issue of whether the Char Dham all-weather road being built in the Uttarakhand hills should have a width of 7m in border areas (instead of 5.5m) -- as requested by the defence ministry in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court on Wednesday -- defence experts and former Army officers told TOI that they supported the defence ministry’s contention as “building wider roads is essential in maintaining the security of the border.” They alleged that “maintaining a proper network of roads in the border areas is required for not just smooth transfer of troops and equipment but also providing relief to the soldiers posted in the challenging terrains.” As reported by TOI earlier, the issue of the road’s width has been a contentious one. In September, the Supreme Court, based on recommendations of a minority group of the high-powered committee (HPC) constituted by the court to monitor the Char Dham road project, had decided that the road width should be kept at 5.5m. This, the SC held, was in accordance with a March 2018 circular issued by the ministry of road transport and highways which specified the guidelines for road construction in hilly areas of the country. The Centre and the state government however remained in favour of the width being increased. On Wednesday, when the defence ministry submitted its affidavit urging the court to review its earlier decision, citing the requirements of the Army in border areas, members of the HPC’s minority group including its chairman Ravi Chopra (who had opposed the other members of the committee that supported the government’s stance of a wider road) expressed surprise at the defence ministry’s request, saying that the ministry had been kept in the loop all along while deciding the width of the road. Members of the HPC said that based on the ground situation in the hills, and the vulnerability of the Himalayan slopes, they felt that “during any defence emergency, it is far safer to have a narrower road that will stay reliably open than a wide road that is frequently and unpredictably blocked due to landslides.” However, defence personnel cited the changing situation on the India-China border for having wider roads in border areas. “We know that China is building expressways on its side of the border while we are having difficulties in building highways wide enough to transport guns and equipment. Carrying heavy equipment on a 5.5m wide road is very challenging. Therefore, building proper roads is important for national security especially when China is behaving aggressively,” said an officer who had commanded the Central Command – under which Uttarakhand falls —requesting anonymity. Another officer said that building quality infrastructure along the border with China should be a priority for the country. “We know that the sensitive environment of the Himalayas has to be taken into account but to deal with an aggressive neighbour who has an operational advantage, we also need quality infrastructure. Therefore, building roads that are wide enough to carry equipment and arsenal has to be taken into account,” the officer added. Strategic expert Maroof Raza said that in his opinion, “a good road network is always an asset.” “It is not only important for troops to reach the border posts but also to ensure a steady supply of food, fuel and clothing to the troops. Another alternative is to airdrop supplies but that is not always feasible.” The matter of the road width is now likely to be taken up afresh when the HPC convenes again within two weeks as per the directions of the Supreme Court and examines the Centre’s objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-road-width-wider-roads-required-to-transport-weapons-heavy-equipment-along-border-say-army-personnel-support-def-min-request-to-sc/articleshow/79552409.cms||Prashant Jha
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Guv Mishra yet to give assent to state farm bills||Jaipur: Over a month had passed after the Congress government in Rajasthan had passed the bills to counter the contentious central legislation on agriculture, but governor Kalraj Mishra is yet to give his assent to them. This could be another flash point between the Congress government and the governor. The three state Bills passed were the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020; and Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, 2020.The Parliament enacted farm laws deregulating the sale of agriculture produce. Farmer unions and the opposition Congress however claimed that the move by the BJP government at the Centre will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system.The farmers are on an agitation seeking a rollback on the farm laws passed by the Centre which allowed private parties to purchase farm produce directly from the farmers instead of authorized mandis and allowing contract farming by corporates. The Rajasthan Bills mandate that crops will be bought or sold for no less than the minimum support price (MSP) and provide for imprisonment of three to seven years for harassing farmers. Sources said the governor has not given his ascent nor send it back the cabinet for reconsideration. The governor has been keeping the bill pending as there is no time limit for the governor to give his ascent to a bill. On the other hand, the state government is also not in a hurry as it had already appropriated the issue by passing the bill. Now, the ball is in the governor’s court. It could blame the BJP and the governor for the delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guv-mishra-yet-to-give-assent-to-state-farm-bills/articleshow/79554939.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Govt must be clear over date for conducting zilla polls: MGP||Ponda: Criticising the state government for lack of consensus over the date of zilla panchayat election, MGP has demanded that the government should come clear on it. “While chief minister Pramod Sawant says one date, his minister (panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho) suggests another. This shows that the government itself has no consensus over the date,” MGP president Pandurang Dhavalikar said on Thursday. Sawant had earlier suggested that the elections will be held in the first half of December, while Godinho has given probable dates in January. He also alleged that some ministers are misusing government machinery to win the forthcoming ZP polls. Irked with the confusion over the ZP elections, the regional party has even suggested that the government should opt ‘one nation, one election’ - an idea suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi - next year by conducting elections of state assemblies, zilla panchayats, municipal councils and village panchayats together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-must-be-clear-over-date-for-conducting-zilla-polls-mgp/articleshow/79554937.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Kiosks in parks a bid to loot people, claims Saurabh Bharadwaj||NEW DELHI: Opposing the proposal of South Delhi Municipal Corporation regarding opening of milk booths and fruit and vegetable kiosks in parks, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj on Thursday claimed that the BJP-led civic body had made the plan only “with the intention of looting people”. Bharadwaj said the capital had enough milk booths and vegetable and fruit shops. “SDMC has come up with a new technique of looting citizens through the beautiful parks of south Delhi. In areas like Greater Kailash, Panchsheel Colony and Kailash Colony, there are many beautiful parks. The corporation wants to set up fruit, milk, vegetables and confectionary shops in them. For this, private players have been allowed to lease the places for seven years,” he added. The MLA wondered who would ensure that licences were not issued to only those known to BJP councillors. “Who will ensure how many licences are being issued? No RWA or citizens’ organisation gave this suggestion to SDMC. The corporation has come up with this proposal just for the benefit of BJP’s supporters and cadres,” alleged Bharadwaj. However, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called AAP’s allegations frivolous. “The proposal relates to small stalls in parks, which will be operated only in the morning and evening. This is just a preliminary proposal that needs to be deliberated upon before a decision is taken. At this stage, the proposal just covers one sample park in each ward. The BJP leadership in SDMC is committed to respecting the opinion of RWAs and councillors before allowing implementation of the plan in even sample parks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kiosks-in-parks-a-bid-to-loot-people-bharadwaj/articleshow/79554958.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Motorcycle pilots seek financial aid for seniors||Panaji: The Goa Motorcycle taxi rider’s association on Thursday demanded restarting of the monthly financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to pilots aged 50 years and above. They also submitted a representation to chief minister Pramod Sawant listing their other demands such as subsidy for replacement of vehicle. “We have been facing a crisis ever since the lockdown started and there has been no relief even now,” said Suresh Thakur, president of the association. He further said that they have demanded that all erstwhile schemes require to be restarted. “We are aware that the government is also facing financial issues. However, the role of pilots goes beyond that of being a medium of public transport. We are hopeful that the government pays heed to our request,” Thakur said. Damu Naik said that during the pandemic, motorcycle pilots and rickshaw drivers helped senior citizens. “By next month, the schemes must be implemented, and grants released. There is unrest among this community,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/motorcycle-pilots-seek-financial-aid-for-seniors/articleshow/79554946.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Price of gold increases by Rs 1,900 in just three days||Ahmedabad: After consistently declining for a week, the gold price has once again become volatile, riding on global cues. Slipping below the Rs 50,000-mark after five months on November 30, gold price sharply rose in the Ahmedabad market, to settle at Rs 51,800 per 10 gram. This means gold price went up by Rs 1,900 in merely three days against Monday’s Rs 49,900 per 10 gram. Explaining reasons for sharp rise and increased volatility in gold prices, Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA), said, “With the economic crisis in middle eastern countries, several currencies across the world are getting depreciated. Amidst increased liquidity pumping by the government, people are moving towards safe haven investments in gold pushing the prices up.” “Surge in gold price was supported by a weaker dollar as well as the fall in US treasuries,” Acharya added. Gold prices declined two days ago, tracing its plunge in the international market, amidst increased optimism over Covid-19 virus vaccine. Industry experts said if the volatility continues, the investments in gold will come to a standstill. “Investors who used to buy bullion or invest in gold exchange traded funds (ETFs) are in wait and watch mode amid the rapid rise and fall in gold prices. People are waiting for prices to stabilise before entering the market and currently, a number of factors including the economic crisis, vaccine for Covid-19 and the US elections are at play, affecting gold price,” said a bullion trader from Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/price-of-gold-increases-by-rs-1900-in-just-three-days/articleshow/79553546.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||2 narcotics smugglers assault cops, flee||Jodhpur: Two drug smugglers assaulted policemen on Wednesday evening in Dangiawas area near Jodhpur and fled from the spot with the help of their aides who reached the spot to pick them.Three policemen, including Dangiawas SHO, sustained injuries. They were discharged from the hospital after primary treatment.Police, however, succeeded in seizing the vehicle belonging to the smugglers and recovered live cartridges and a 12 bore gun besides some registration plates. The vehicle seized by police was stolen from Jaipur.ACP (Mandore) Rajendra Prasad Diwakar said the incident occurred when SHO Kanhaiyalal was on patrolling with two other policemen on Wednesday evening. “During patrolling, they spotted an SUV and signalled it to stop. But the vehicle drew close and tried to run over the policemen,” Diwakar said.They stopped the vehicle and two persons abruptly jumped out of it. They assaulted the policemen before they could recuperate. One of them was identified as Surjaram, who is a drug and arms smuggler, while the other could not be identified.“Inspite of the assault, policemen tried to catch hold of the assailants, but suddenly two persons emerged on two motorcycles and both fled from the spot leaving their vehicle behind,” the officer said.When police searched the vehicle, they found 20 live cartridges, 2 used cartridges and a 12 bore gun. The vehicle was found to be stolen from Jaipur and was having some number plates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-narcotics-smugglers-assault-cops-flee/articleshow/79554950.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||1,467 motorists fined for violations||Nagpur: Continuing with its zero tolerance against traffic violations, the Nagpur city traffic police on Friday penalized 1,467 motorists for having tinted windows on four-wheelers and fancy number plates — 736 black films and 731 fancy number plates. The highest numbers of cases were booked by Cotton Market traffic zone. Here, the traffic police caught 204 motorists for both black films and fancy number plates. Sonegaon traffic zone penalized 203 motorists. Sitabuldi traffic zone issued 186 challans, Sakkardara zone (173), Kamptee zone (149), Sadar zone (143), Indora zone (118), MIDC zone (115), Ajni zone (91 cases) and Lakadganj zone (85 cases). DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad said the zero tolerance drive will continue till January 1 and appealed to motorists to follow traffic rules and regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1467-motorists-fined-for-violations/articleshow/79571922.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bhopal||Now, VD Sharma seeks to rename MP's Hoshangabad||BHOPAL: BJP Madhya Pradesh president V D Sharma on Thursday said that Hoshangabad should be renamed as Narmadapuram on the popular demand of people. Sharma said the whole world knows about the river Narmada. “The residents of the district have been demanding for a long time to change the name of Hoshangabad to Narmadapuram, which is commonly used by the local residents. We should work for the voice of the people”, he said. Sharma was speaking on the sidelines of the ongoing training programme of party workers at Panchsheel Nagar mandal in Bhopal. The statewide training of party workers started from November 29 and are being held in 1,059 mandals of BJP organisation where workers from the booth-level to district and state-level are getting trained on party policies and ideology, election management, media and social media management. Sharma said such training programmes help BJP workers to understand the party better and how its patrons work for the upliftment of society. “They throw light on saffron ideology and give answers to a host of questions with regard to the way the party works for people’s welfare”, he said. Sharma also accused Congress of misleading farmers on the newly-enacted agriculture laws. “The laws are aimed at doubling the income of farmers, but Congress party is misleading them”, he said. Sharma’s demand to rename Hoshangabad came two days after MP assembly pro tem speaker and Huzur MLA Rameshwar Sharma demanded the renaming of Idgah Hills area in state capital Bhopal as ‘Guru Nanak Tekri’. The issue is likely to be raised in the winter session of the assembly. A delegation of Sikh community members had also submitted a letter to Sharma on Wednesday, urging him to immediately take up the issue with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and rename the area in the memory of the first Sikh Guru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vd-seeks-to-rename-hoshangabad/articleshow/79553529.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Dead person is equally entitled to justice, says HC||Madurai: The legitimacy of the state suffers a big dent in cases of custodial deaths, and it can be set right only by ensuring transparent investigation, the Madras high court has said. Transferring investigation into the alleged custodial torture case of a man to the CB-CID, the court issued a series of directions on the procedures to be performed while performing postmortems. “The foundations of any democratic government rest on popular acceptance. Though the state primarily functions through its coercive apparatus, its actions must be perceived as proper by the people. What the government does must inspire the confidence of the people,” justice G R Swaminathan observed. “Every time a custodial death occurs, the legitimacy of the state suffers a big dent. A dead person is equally entitled to justice,” observed the judge. The judge said that whenever someone suffers an unnatural death, the circumstances that led to it will have to be unearthed, else, there would be no closure. The court was hearing a petition filed by K Santhosh, who stated that the Saptur police had taken his younger brother Ramesh in custody in September. Later, Ramesh was found hanging in a tree in a hillock near his house. The judge said that it is for the investigation to unearth the truth. Issuing a series of directions, the judge said that the judicial magistrate (JM) conducting the inquiry under Section 176(1)(A) CrPC, shall ensure that the family of the deceased are given access to see the body both front and back and are also allowed to take video and photos. The judge said that no autopsy shall take place or commence without the next of kin having seen the body. If the family of the deceased refuses to see the body, even after so being permitted by the JM conducting the inquiry, the JM can, in writing, permit the conduct of a postmortem. The autopsy shall be carried out by a team of two doctors who have a master’s degree in forensic medicine and are attached to a medical college hospital in the state. The judge directed that the whole body shall be x-rayed in order to find out if there are any fractures. The entire autopsy should be videographed from the start of the examination till its completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dead-person-is-equally-entitled-to-justice-says-hc/articleshow/79555869.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||BJP state in charge focuses on seats lost in 2017 polls||LUCKNOW: After having churned the state organisation of the BJP for two days and before returning to Delhi on Thursday, the newly appointed state in charge of the party Radha Mohan Singh, who is also national vice-president of the BJP and MP, asked party cadres to gear up to support the Ramjanmabhoomi Trust’s campaign for collection of donations in the next two months and simultaneously prepare for the upcoming three-tiered panchayat and Assembly election. Staying away from the customary felicitation functions, the new incharge chaired five meetings in two days, including one with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on December 1 to discuss party affairs and draw strategy for 2022 Assembly elections. Radha Mohan Singh appointed incharges of 80 Assembly constituencies in the state which the party had lost in 2017. He also deputed MPs, office-bearers and senior leaders to camp there and ensure victory of the party. It was the first visit by Singh who in NDA I was Union agriculture minister. He camped in the state capital along with his deputy in charges Sanjiv Chaurasia, Satya Kumar and Sunil Ojha and the newly appointed co-organising secretaries Bhawani Singh and Karambir. Singh called state office-bearers and members of the executive committee and asked them to complete formalities related to the constitution of frontal wings and unitedly prepare for the panchayat elections and for the 2022 Assembly elections. During marathon meetings it was decided that in the first phase the party should focus on 80 Assembly constituencies where it had failed in ’17. Secondly, Singh asked the state organisation to send the message to grassroots workers to join the Ram Mandir Trust’s two-month campaign for distributing coupons for donations for the Ram temple. “The exercise may appear for collection of donations, but the main intention is to galvanise the organisation before panchayat polls,“ observed a senior functionary of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-state-in-charge-focuses-on-seats-lost-in-2017-polls/articleshow/79555864.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 4, 2020||Goa||Lobo: Reshuffle suggestion was made in party’s interest||Panaji: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo on Thursday said that if BJP and chief minister Pramod Sawant don’t want to drop non-performing cabinet ministers then it is up to them. “I had made the suggestions as a senior member of the party in its interest and it is the party’s and the chief minister’s prerogative to take a decision to win the 2022 assembly elections. If they don’t want to drop, then let them not drop,” Lobo told TOI. “MLAs have to give suggestions to the chief minister and the party and I have done that,” he said. The Calangute MLA, who has completed 15 years in BJP, said that in the past, he had asked then CM Laxmikant Parsekar to drop non-performing ministers, but Parsekar didn’t do so and a lot of ministers in that government lost the2017 elections. Lobo had said that if he is non-performing then he should also be dropped and replaced by another BJP MLA. The party has 27 legislators in the House. A day after Lobo said that non-performing ministers need to be replaced for better results at the 2022 polls, Sawant on Wednesday said that Lobo hadn’t approached him on the issue. “(Lobo) has not spoken to me at all,” Sawant had said. “Issue of reshuffles is not decided by ministers. The party decides it.” State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Wednesday said that there are no such plans at the moment. Tanavade had said that Lobo has expressed his personal opinion, adding that such statements by ministers against their cabinet colleagues are unbecoming of them. “How can he speak for the party? He cannot,” Tanavade had said. “Taking away and allotting portfolios is the prerogative of the chief minister. If the CM feels any such move is required, he will discuss it with the party. But till the time (comes), the CM does not speak about it, (so) why should he discuss it unnecessarily?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-reshuffle-suggestion-was-made-in-partys-interest/articleshow/79554942.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC man beaten for ‘unbuttoned shirt, upper caste surname’ in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: A man belonging to a scheduled caste (SC) was on Tuesday beaten just outside the automobile parts manufacturing unit where he works by an upper caste man and his aides, for keeping his shirt unbuttoned and using a surname of the Kshatriya or Darbar community. In the FIR filed at Sanand GIDC police station on Wednesday, Bharat Jadhav, 21, a resident of Sanand who is from Gir-Somnath district, stated that the accused, Narendra Rajput, who also works at Magneti Marelli Motherson Auto System Private Limited in Sanand with Jadhav, had assaulted him. Jadhav stated that when he had gone to the factory on Tuesday, Rajput stopped him and asked him why he had not buttoned up his shirt properly. To this Jadhav buttoned up his shirt. Rajput then asked him his surname and village name. Jadhav told him his surname and said he belongs to a village in Gir Somnath district. To this, Rajput asked him that if he belongs to the Kshatriya or Darbar community, Jadhav told him that he is a Dalit. At this, Rajput got angry and asked him why he used such a surname which sounds like a Darbar surname. Jadhav told him that he is like Rajput’s brother only. After this, Rajput went away and told Jadhav to meet him outside the company after working hours. After his work ended, Jadhav went outside the factory where Rajput and his four aides were waiting for him. They began beating him and asking him how he dared to say that he is like Rajput’s brother when he belongs to an SC community. After he was badly beaten, Jadhav boarded his bus and got off at Sanand police station. At Sanand police station, his complaint was not filed and he was sent to Sanand GIDC police station. According to the law, police can file a ‘zero’ complaint and forward it to the police station concerned without so as not to make the complainant got from pillar to post. Jadhav was finally able to get his complaint registered at Sanand GIDC police station, under charges of causing hurt and criminal intimidation along with charges under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-from-scheduled-caste-beaten-for-darbar-surname/articleshow/79553526.cms||Ashish Chauhan
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||No policy support to PAU plans for home gardens with year-round fruits, veggies||CHANDIGARH: Farmers in Punjab have enjoyed the economies of scale by producing wheat and rice but forgone the economies of scope by moving away from the production of vegetables and fruits in their household gardens. The Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) at Ludhiana has developed plans for home gardens with the potential to produce fruits and vegetables round the year but adoption has failed to pick due to lack of policy support. These are the findings of a study conducted by Amarjit Bhullar, assistant professor of economics in University of Northern British Columbia, Canada, which is part of the policy series by Patiala-based Punjabi University’s Centre for Development Economics and Innovation Studies.  Bhullar, who taught at the Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) for 25 years before moving to Canada, says household gardens are an integral part of local food systems and the agricultural landscape of many developing countries which have endured the test of time. Punjab has moved in a different direction during the green revolution, says Bhullar. Farmers were accustomed to produce not only a variety of food grains but also vegetables, fruits, eggs, meat and milk for domestic use. But now, barring wheat, rice and milk, most farming families are dependent on markets for supply of other food items. This results in nutritional inadequacy, higher expenditure and lack of access to fresh and quality food. Opportunity of revival amid lockdowns, curfew Lockdowns and imposition of curfews necessitated to check the spread of Covid-19 have disturbed the food supply chains resulting in food shortages and price volatilities. Therefore, the study says, Covid is an opportunity to think and revive the system of producing food items that can possibly be produced at farm. The study underlines that nutritional security is a big concern especially in case of marginal and small farming families as these are consuming fruits, vegetables, pulses and fats less than what is required. There has been growing interest to strengthen and intensify local food production in order to alleviate the adverse effect of food supply shocks and food price volatilities. Farm gardens have five intrinsic characteristics – these are located at own farm, contain a high diversity of plants, production is supplemental, income, occupy a small area and poor can also easily start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-policy-support-to-pau-plans-for-home-gardens-with-year-round-fruits-veggies/articleshow/79554953.cms||Sanjeev Verma
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Body of Fatehwadi missing boy found||Ahmedabad: The body of the 13-year-old boy from Fatehwadi who was missing since Wednesday was found from a canal in Asali late on Thursday evening. He had gone missing after he went to search for a cricket ball near Fatehwadi canal. Mujibur Rehman Rizvi, brother of the deceased, Talha Rizvi, had filed a complaint of abduction against unknown persons with Vejalpur police. After an intensive search by personnel of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), his body was recovered from Aslali. Rehman said in his FIR that Talha was playing cricket with his friends near Fatehwadi canal at around 11.30am on Wednesday. He was fielding and chasing the ball when one of his friends played a shot. He went to get the ball. When he did not return for a long time, his friends tried to find him but failed. They then informed family members who informed cops and fire brigade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/body-of-fatehwadi-missing-boy-found/articleshow/79553580.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Dehradun||Farm protest: Thousands of Uttarakhand farmers to reach Delhi||RUDRAPUR: Thousands of farmers from the Terai region-- popular as “rice bowl” of the hill state comprising Udham Singh Nagar district and parts of Nainital and Champawat-- left for Delhi on Thursday and were hopeful of hitting the protest ground by Friday morning. Some were expecting to reach much earlier. Another 2,000 Uttarakhand farmers, who were stopped by UP Police near Rampur on November 26, were also allowed to proceed on Thursday. Among the unions participating in the protest are Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an alliance of farmers groups like the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKS), All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), and various factions of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). One of the farmer leaders recalled how Mahendra Singh Tikait had “bought the Rajiv Gandhi government to its knees”. “Five lakh farmers had staged a protest in Delhi for seven days in 1988 under the leadership of Mahendra Singh Tikait, compelling the then Rajiv Gandhi government at the Centre to accept their demands. As more and more farmers from Terai are going to Delhi, we will force the current government to withdraw the contentious bills,” said Jagir Singh, block president of BKU in Jaspur. Another farmer leader Vikramjit Singh Vicky from Bigwada village said, “We will not relent until these laws are withdrawn. These bills have been brought to destroy the agricultural sector and to help the corporates.” The three laws -- the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 -- that the farmers are protesting against were given a nod by President Ram Nath Kovind on September 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thousands-of-farmers-from-uttarakhand-plains-expected-to-reach-delhi-on-friday-to-join-stir/articleshow/79552453.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 4, 2020||Pune||17k signs for online petition, citizens plead with PMC to save Vetal Tekdi||Pune: Efforts to save the section of Vetal Tekdi where MIT was building a road have caught on across the city. A petition called ‘Save Vetal Tekdi. Stop MIT Road!’ on change.org has garnered over 17,000 signatures in just two days. Residents and citizens groups have also demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation notify the Vetal Tekdi complex as a ‘natural heritage’ site as identified in the state government’s draft list in September 2000. The list has 46 sites. Sushma Date, who climbs the Vetal Tekdi regularly, said, “Regardless of the purpose in building this road, the fact remains that any construction activity on this hill will cause tremendous ecological damage to one of the few remaining natural green spaces in the heart of the city. An additional road when there is already one from Paud Road to ARAI at the top, will bring unwanted traffic to the top of the hill which is an ecologically sensitive reserved forest. The road will eventually lead to encroachments in the form of hawkers, food stalls and hutments.” A resident, who lives close to the Vetal Tekdi complex on Paud Road, said, “The hill is rich in flora and fauna. Over 15 bird species thrive in these woods, including near-extinct sparrows. Urban forests have a huge positive impact on residents of any city as they are the biggest air purifiers.” Another resident said there were over 300 families that do not disturb the hills and have kept them protected from any activity. “Survey number 123 on the hillslope and hilltop of Vetal tekdi may officially belong to MIT, but the tekdi itself, its grasslands and forests and the precious aquifers benefit all.” Another resident, who did not wish to be identified, said the landscape is a natural grassland and cannot be altered. “A road like this can create havoc as it can obstruct the natural flow of water during heavy rain. The debris dumping has caused this road to rise to the height of the adjacent bungalows overlooking the tekdi’s affected slope. This could be disastrous.” Others said the slope where the road is being made feeds the largest aquifers of Pune city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/17k-signs-for-online-petition-citizens-plead-with-pmc-to-save-vetal-tekdi/articleshow/79554951.cms||Neha Madaan
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Farmers from 27 tehsils of Kota div take out protest rally||Kota: In support of the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, hundreds of farmers from the 27 tehsils of the four districts of Kota division marched a rally in Kota city on Thursday demanding withdrawal of the farm bills. They submitted a memorandum to the district collector in this regard.A rally of around 1,500-2,000 farmers under the aegis of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sangharsh Samanvaya Samiti (ABKSS) assembled at the Shahid Smarak in the city on Thursday noon. The farmers, some of them riding in tractor-trolleys and on two-wheelers marched through the main roads while demonstrating slogans against the farm bills with banners and placards in their hands. Heavy police force was deployed along with the farmers demonstrating in the rally to check any untoward incident.The rally reached the district collector’s office where a 11-member delegation of farmers led by ABKSS Kota division convener Fatehchand Bagla, Dulichand Bordha of Kisan Sabha and Abdul Gafur of Kisan Federation met Kota district collector and handed him a memorandum demanding withdrawal of farm bills, formation of law on MSP and other demands.The farmers termed the recently passed bills as anti-farmer and anti-agriculture and demanded the Union government to immediately revoke them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-from-27-tehsils-of-kota-div-take-out-protest-rally/articleshow/79554955.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||22-year-old girl alleges rape, youth booked||Kota: A 22-year-old girl lodged a case of rape against a youth of her village under Ghatoli police station of Jhalawar district on Thursday late evening and alleged that the accused raped her while she was alone at her home in the village in the noon hours on Thursday last week (November 26). The survivor was later in the evening sent for medical examination and her statement before magistrate under Section 164 would be recorded in next few days. The survivor, along with her mother, reached the police station on Thursday evening and lodged a case of rape against a youth of her village, identified as Nanuram alias Ramvilas Meena, said SHO at Ghatoli police station Ajit Choudhary. The survivor in the report alleged she was alone at her home at noon on November 26 (Thursday last week) when the accused barged into her room and raped her while suppressing her cries and shouts by stuffing a cloth piece into her mouth, the SHO said. The accused threatened the girl of dire consequences in case she dared disclose the incident to others in the family, he said. The survivor and the accused belong to the same caste and live in the same village, he added. The survivor stated she got delayed a week in lodging the case because of the threat by the accused and of the social shame, but eventually on Thursday evening she gathered courage, making up her mind to register a case with police, the SHO said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/22-year-old-girl-alleges-rape-youth-booked/articleshow/79554989.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Quack booked for sexual assault in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: A case of sexual assault has been lodged against a quack in Chandhan town of Jaisalmer district on Thursday.According to a complaint filed by the survivor with the women’s police station, the quack allegedly misbehaved with the 27-year-old married woman by removing her clothes on the pretext of checking her.SHO Ugamraj Soni said Rajnish, a resident of Ganganagar, runs a private clinic at Chandhan. On Thursday, the victim went to him to get treatment for her backache. According to the woman, the accused asked her to remove her clothes and misbehaved with her. When she raised cries, her family members came inside the clinic, but the accused managed to run away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/quack-booked-for-sexual-assault-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79554984.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||Frontline staff second in vaccine priority list in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In a strategic shift, the state health department would now provide coronavirus vaccine to all the security personnel and front line workers after covering nearly eight lakh health workers. Earlier, it was proposed that the vulnerable population including elderly and children below 10 years of age would be vaccinated after health staff. Sources in the government said the decision has been taken in accordance with the recommendations of NITI Aayog and relevant departments have been instructed to prepare a list of the people. As per the change in strategy, now personnel of state police, PAC, central protection forces like CRPF, RPF, home guards, support staff on municipal body duties, ambulance drivers, employees supporting back end operations like storage of vaccines and distribution of essential commodities will be inoculated after health workers at the front line of Covid battle in each district. Officials of the health department are holding meetings with state and district task force on smooth rollout of Covid-19 vaccine programme. “Everything that the state needs to do to provide Covid-19 vaccine to people is being done,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said on Thursday. “Indications are that the vaccine is to be administered through intra-muscular route. Efforts are on to increase the storage capacity for vaccine and training of vaccinators has been launched alongside,” he added. Insiders revealed that the government is working to form mobilising teams and is engaging with NCC and other volunteer groups besides collaborating with NGOs and Panchayati Raj institutions. The government has also launched a separate mechanism to track and manage any adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) the possibility of which cannot be ruled out even with the best vaccines in the world. It may be noted that UP government was one of the first to undertake gap analysis for implementing national Covid-19 vaccine programme. Based on the SWOT analysis done by Unicef, the government has already sanctioned funds to create additional storage capacity for the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/frontline-staff-second-in-vaccine-priority-list/articleshow/79555874.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Sarpanch hubby still untraceable, no repolling||Jaisalmer: The husband of the sarpanch, who tried to run away with the EVM at Devra village under Fatehgarh panchayat samiti in Jaisalmer district on Tuesday evening, has not been traced so far. Police teams have been sent to different places in search of him. As the seal inside the EVM was not broken, the votes in it are safe as per the directions from the State Election Commission and the district administration has refused of any possibility of repolling. It has been announced to reward the police constable who foiled the EVM loot. District collector Ashish Modi said that on December 1, after the polling of Zila Parishad was over at Devda village, husband of the sarpanch, Datar Singh, entered the EVM room by jumping over the wall and ran away with the EVM. Police constable chased him and Datar left the EVM in school premises and ran away. A case has been lodged against him at Jhinjhinyali police station. The EVM was safe and untampered. He said that videography of the entire area has been done. The seal inside the EVM was safe and a report in this regard was sent to the State Election Commission and as per the directions from the commission, repolling will not be done as the EVM is safe. SP Ajay Singh said that constable Rohitash Singh chased Datar Singh and tried to catch him, but he managed to run away and Rohitash managed to get back the EVM and handed it over to senior officers. He said the constable did a praiseworthy work and was awarded at Jaisalmer police line to boost his morale. Teams have been sent in search of Datar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanch-hubby-still-untraceable-no-repolling/articleshow/79554961.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders to reinstate talati dismissed on graft charges||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has ordered the state government to reinstate a revenue talati to complete his fixed five-year service after he was dismissed from service on graft charges.Justice S H Vora ordered the talati’s reinstatement in service for the remainder of his fixed period of five years because he was dismissed straightaway without any departmental proceedings after he was charged by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of accepting bribes. The court said that the order of termination was stigmatic and an employee, even if he is ad hoc, cannot be sacked without giving him an opportunity to explain his side.In this case, Yogesh Vatikiya was appointed as revenue talati in June 2017 for a fixed period of five years in Surat district. His tenure was to end in 2022. In January, the ACB nabbed him allegedly accepting Rs 2,000 from a villager to prepare a pedhinama (succession certificate). In February, the Surat district collector dismissed him from service citing the FIR against him.Vatukiya approached the HC complaining that he was dismissed without being accorded the opportunity for a hearing. This is a violation of the principles of natural justice. The HC felt the order of dismissal could be treated as stigmatic. The court said Vatukiya was liable to be reinstated and permitted the department to go ahead with proceedings in accordance with the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-to-reinstate-talati-dismissed-on-graft-charges/articleshow/79553614.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How road accidents are leaving survivors with an uphill task||NEW DELHI: For Harry Singh, life turned upside down when he met with an accident as a student. On International Day of Disabled Persons, Singh recalled when, as a 20-year-old studying Russian at Jawaharlal Nehru University, he collided with a car and he was flung to the pedestrian walkway. He is paralysed from the waist down. Apart from being a research scholar, he also has a startup, but says life has never been the same again. Around the world, more than a billion people live with disabilities, the vast majority in low-income and middle-income countries. A significant proportion of disabilities is caused by injuries, including those which result from road accidents. Delhi is among the cities with a long record of road mishaps that have affected the lives of thousands, many of them rendered bedridden for life. In 2019, there were 5,610 road crashes in Delhi, in which 1,463 people died and 5,152 others suffered injuries. Speeding is a major cause of the accidents in Delhi, accounting for at least 50% of them. There were 674 fatal road collisions categorised as hit-and-run cases in 2019, a decrease from 765 in 2018. Another road accident survivor, Prathistha Deveshwar, told TOI she was 13 years old when a road accident left her paralysed. Dependent on a wheelchair for movement now, Deveshwar remembered how the poor condition of the road had caused the accident when she was travelling with her family. “I strongly believe that amendment to road safety laws will hold the right people accountable,” said Deveshwar on Thursday. “Even though life was tragically changed, I gathered courage and pursued political science from Lady Shri Ram College.” Shashank Shekhar, brother of a survivor, said that his sibling was hit by someone driving illegally into incoming traffic in August 2017. After sustaining a brain injury, the brother was in a coma for a year, and is currently undergoing rehabilitation, including physiotherapy, occupational therapy and speech therapy. Shashank said that he had to leave his job in Patna and move to Delhi to take care of his brother and now is an activist for the cause of road safety. Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation, told TOI, “While we celebrate the potential of persons with disabilities, let’s not forget that each year more than 4.5 lakh people are seriously injured or permanently disabled in road accidents, the single biggest contributor to disability in India. Unless we address the scourge of road crashes to prevent injuries and disabilities in the first place and establish a competent system for rehabilitation for the injured, we will never really do justice to the cause of disabled people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-road-accidents-are-leaving-survivors-with-an-uphill-task/articleshow/79554997.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC allows riot accused to shift to guesthouse for exams||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Thursday permitted Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in a connection with northeast Delhi riots earlier this year, to shift to a guest house to enable him to study and appear in examinations scheduled from Friday. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri also asked the jail superintendent to permit the accused to take studying material with him and provide him other teaching material, if required. Tanha was directed to be taken to a guest house in Lajpat Nagar as proposed and agreed to by police and his lawyer. The court made it clear it will be the responsibility of the jail superintendent that from the guest house, the accused be taken to the examination centre at Jamia university at 8.30am on December 4, 5 and 7 and brought back. He will be brought back to the jail after the three exams are over. The court also allowed Tanha to make a phone call to his counsel for 10 minutes once a day during his stay at the guest house. A trial court has granted him three-day custody parole to appear in compartment/ supplementary exams of BA Persian (honours). However, he was not satisfied with it on the grounds that his entire day will be wasted and he will not be able to study and approached the high court seeking interim bail for the purpose. His interim bail was opposed by additional solicitor general S V Raju, representing the state, who stated that no such relief ought to be granted to Tanha and suggested that he can be permitted to stay in a guest house under judicial custody till his exams get over on December 7. The accused submitted that he is ready to give an undertaking to surrender immediately after the exams and that he would not seek benefit of the full court’s Covid-19 orders in which interim bails were granted and regularly extended. Besides granting custody parole, the trial court had also directed the jail superintendent to provide necessary assistance in terms of the teaching material for the examinations of the accused. It had said that clearing the exams was necessary for Tanha to pursue MA in Persian, and that leniency must be shown to the accused by allowing him to appear for the said exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-allows-riot-accused-to-shift-to-guesthouse-for-exams/articleshow/79555038.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh meets Amit Shah, seeks early solution||CHANDIGARG: Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Thursday during the ongoing farmer agitation against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws and urged both the Centre and the farm groups to find an early solution to the impasse. After the meeting, Amarinder told reporters that while he and his government were not involved in the mediation. Listen to farmers with an open mind to resolve standoff: CaptAmarinder said the matter had to be resolved between the Centre and the farmers, an early resolution was vital in the interest of both Punjab and the country. “There should be an early solution. It is having an impact on the economy of Punjab and also on the national security,” Amarinder said. Replying to a question about the fourth round of talks between the Centre and the farmer groups, Amarinder said, “That is a discussion between the government and the farmers at Vigyan Bhawan. It has nothing to do with me. It is for them to resolve.” The CM reiterated Punjab’s position seeking early resolution of the deadlock and urged the Centre to rethink its stand on the legislations while appealing to the farmers to find an early solution to the problem that was adversely impacting the state’s economy and also posed a serious danger to national security. The problem needs to be solved quickly, he said during his meeting with Shah, whom he urged to ensure that the Government of India addresses the concerns of the farmers. Stressing the need to protect MSP and continue with the APMC-based Mandi system, Amarinder urged Shah to listen to the farmers with an open mind to resolve the standoff quickly so that farmers from Punjab and other states, including a large number of women, could return to their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cm-captain-amarinder-singh-meets-amit-shah-seeks-early-solution/articleshow/79554964.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Udaipur||Four months on, ‘drug smuggler’ cleared, released from jail||UDAIPUR: After four months in jail, Tejaram Devasi, a cattleman from Bankli village of Sumerpur in Pali district was released on the orders of a local court here on Thursday. Tejaram shed tears of joy when activists and supporters greeted him as he stepped outside Udaipur central jail. During these four months, Devasi community as well as civil rights activists had held a massive movement, staged protests for his release. “We are grateful to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and DGP M L Lather, who were sensitive about the case and transferred the investigation to CID-CB which in the course of its inquiry found no evidence against the poor man. The CID department instructed Udaipur SP to file application under Section 169 of CrPC for Tejaram's release. On the application, the local court ordered his release,” R S Sameeja, the activist who led the movement told TOI. Tejaram is an animal raiser as well as a daily wager enrolled under MGNREGA scheme, who was accused and jailed for alleged involvement in doda post smuggling case lodged in May 2019 at Kheroda police station in Udaipur. In May 2019, the Kheroda police had seized a Scorpio jeep carrying 353kg doda post and had arrested one Shyamlal Gurjar while two others escaped. Shyamlal told the police that one Umesh Beniwal from Barmer aided him while he didn’t know the driver. Police brought Umesh on production warrant from Bali sub-jail and questioned him. Umesh named Tejaram as the jeep driver upon which the police interrogated Tejaram too and finding him innocent, let him free. However, on August 6, Udaipur police took away Tejaram from his home and took him to Vallabhnagar police station where he was kept for a day and arrested later. Tejaram was sent to judicial custody on August 10. It is told that Tejaram is a witness in a murder case of his nephew and the accused are presently in Bali sub jail. Umesh, who has no connection with Tejaram, happened to meet his rivals in the jail and they prompted Umesh to take Tejaram's name as the jeep driver in the NDPS case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/4-mths-on-drug-smuggler-cleared-released-from-jail/articleshow/79559078.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM launches ‘Online Development Permission System-2.0’||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Thursday launched the ‘Online Development Permission System (ODPS)-2.0’ at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar and said the state government is working towards good governance with transparency.Rupani claimed the state government wants to develop online systems by making maximum use of technology in departments like housing, revenue and urban development, where people are directly connected.He said Gujarat has become the first state in the nation to develop a faceless system to pass development plans. “Our government is working on the four pillars of transparency, decisiveness, sensitivity and progressiveness. We have made a number of pioneering improvements to ensure that services are made available fast and effectively,” the CM said.Now that the new ODPS-2.0 is operational, off-line permissions for low-rise buildings will be completely discontinued, the CM clarified. He said that ODPS for highrise buildings will also be implemented in future. The state government is committed to taking action against those involved in malpractices and will ensure people are not cheated.Rupani said that the GDCR has been amended to common GDCR for developing the new system. He added that by focusing on 15 vital things like FSI, height, margin, parking, fire safety, the government has ensured that plans are passed within 24 hours based on their adequacy.The CM added that even in town-planning scheme approvals, this government has gone ahead with 100 TP approvals every year.Real estate bodies welcome govt move“It is a very good move for consumers as well as the construction industry. This decision will accelerate construction activity across Gujarat and reduce delays in construction. Moreover, development certificate will also be issued the same day,” said Ashish Patel, president, CREDAI-Gujarat. “Smaller towns will benefit even more as most of the constructions in such areas seldom cross 15 metres height,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-launches-online-development-permission-system-2-0/articleshow/79553624.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Damaged roads in Madurai city add to woes of commuters||Madurai: The damaged DD Road near Arapalayam Bus terminal is giving a bumpy ride to commuters for several weeks now. The road is also turning dangerous as minor accidents are frequently taking place when the deep potholes are filled with rainwater.Bike riders are most affected. With the potholes so deep, it literally makes it impossible for them with lesser ground clearance to pass through. They have to ride the vehicle carefully by taking zig-zag turns in order to avoid hitting the potholes, which are becoming deeper day by day.R Paramasivam a regular commuter said that the road condition is turning worse from bad in the recent weeks. “I have raised complaints with the corporation officials over Whatsapp along with pictures. At least two weeks on, no repair work has been carried out so far,” he said.Residents say that not just the DD Road, many of the roads in and around Arapalayam are in bad shape. Melaponnagaram Road, Konmoikarai Road and AA Road are in bad shape. The New Jail Road was recently laid, but the quality of the road is not up to the mark. There are already signs of road patches coming off in many areas, they say.V Stalin, CPM functionary from Melaponnagaram said that as the corporation did not take any steps to address the road issue, they conducted a paddy nursery planting protest in the DD Road to attract the attention of the officials. It is the most damaged road of all. Even then no repair work was carried out, he said. When contacted, an official from the corporation acknowledged the complaints received from people from various quarters. He said that road work will be carried out after rainy season ends. Road laid during the rainy season would not last long, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/damaged-roads-in-madurai-city-add-to-woes-of-commuters/articleshow/79555876.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Four months on, ‘drug smuggler’ cleared, released from jail||UDAIPUR: After four months in jail, Tejaram Devasi, a cattleman from Bankli village of Sumerpur in Pali district was released on the orders of a local court here on Thursday. Tejaram shed tears of joy when activists and supporters greeted him as he stepped outside Udaipur central jail. During these four months, Devasi community as well as civil rights activists had held a massive movement, staged protests for his release. “We are grateful to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and DGP M L Lather, who were sensitive about the case and transferred the investigation to CID-CB which in the course of its inquiry found no evidence against the poor man. The CID department instructed Udaipur SP to file application under Section 169 of CrPC for Tejaram's release. On the application, the local court ordered his release,” R S Sameeja, the activist who led the movement told TOI. Tejaram is an animal raiser as well as a daily wager enrolled under MGNREGA scheme, who was accused and jailed for alleged involvement in doda post smuggling case lodged in May 2019 at Kheroda police station in Udaipur. In May 2019, the Kheroda police had seized a Scorpio jeep carrying 353kg doda post and had arrested one Shyamlal Gurjar while two others escaped. Shyamlal told the police that one Umesh Beniwal from Barmer aided him while he didn’t know the driver. Police brought Umesh on production warrant from Bali sub-jail and questioned him. Umesh named Tejaram as the jeep driver upon which the police interrogated Tejaram too and finding him innocent, let him free. However, on August 6, Udaipur police took away Tejaram from his home and took him to Vallabhnagar police station where he was kept for a day and arrested later. Tejaram was sent to judicial custody on August 10. It is told that Tejaram is a witness in a murder case of his nephew and the accused are presently in Bali sub jail. Umesh, who has no connection with Tejaram, happened to meet his rivals in the jail and they prompted Umesh to take Tejaram's name as the jeep driver in the NDPS case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-mths-on-drug-smuggler-cleared-released-from-jail/articleshow/79555005.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||9 held for ATM loot||Jaipur: Cracking the case in which armed robbers had decamped with money by cutting the ATM machine of a private bank from Rainwal village on the outskirts of Jaipur, police have arrested nine persons of the gang. Police have also recovered Rs 9.72 lakh from the possession of the robbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/9-held-for-atm-loot/articleshow/79555033.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Forest dept sidetracks EIA for Gir rly project||hmedabad: The state forest department seems to have overlooked the concerns of many wildlife lovers and even members of the State Board for Wildlife (SBWL) chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani in connection to a proposal for conversion of railway lines that pass through the Gir Sanctuary – home to the last surviving population of Asiatic Lions. At the nineteenth SBWL meeting held on September 29 in the presence of the board chairman CM Rupani, a proposal was submitted by Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd for upgrading the current meter gauge line to broad gauge with electrification. According to the proposal, the project required 148 hectares of land in Gir Sanctuary. The minutes of the meeting, prepared nearly two months after the board meeting, states that SBWL has deliberated on the proposal of railway track conversion and sent it to National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) for clearance, said sources close to the development. This has however not gone down well with the board members many of who claim that the project was not given any approval by the SBWL board. “The chief minister gave his assurance at the meet that the state government will not sanction any rail project that passes through the sanctuary,” a member of SBWL said. At the meeting, it was also agreed upon to carry out an environment impact assessment (EIA) of the project. Based on the outcome of the EIA report, a final decision was to be taken, said another member of SBWLwho had attended the meeting. The agenda of the meeting mentions that EIA for the project is pending. A suo motu petition in connection to deaths of lions on Pipavav railway line is pending before the Gujarat high court in which the railways admitted that lions were accidentally killed on the tracks. In a period of 18 months, the railways has saved 63 lions on Rajula-Pipavav rail route, the department said in its affidavit. The Gir Sanctuary has been declared as an eco-sensitive zone, and no such construction activity can be carried out within a radius of 10kilometers from the sanctuary, an SBWL member said. The proposed project talks about not one railway route but three routes including Visavadar to Kodinar, Khijadia-Amreli-Dhari route and Junagadh to Visavadar railway. All of them pass through the eco-sensitive zone at Gir Sanctuary, experts say. A senior forest official when contacted said that the project will soon be sent to NBWL for final approval. Some members of SBWL have also written to chief minister Rupani, opposing the decision and seeking his intervention into the matter. “One fails to understand the purpose of the project. There is not much passenger demand in the region with a couple of trains running every day. Development is essential but it must be kept away from our forests and jungles,” said a wildlife expert. Presently the speed of the trains is restricted to avoid killing of animals, especially lions. But experts feel that once the routes are upgraded and good trains start running on them it could cause serious environmental impact in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forest-dept-sidetracks-eia-for-gir-rly-project/articleshow/79553697.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Man beaten to death over fencing of farm, 3 injured||ALWAR: A 52-year-old man was beaten to death by at least 20 assailants after a feud over fencing of a farm situated at Balota village under Malakhera police station area of Alwar on Thursday afternoon. Three members of the deceased’s family were also injured in the clash. Members of Hindu outfits staged protest and dharna at the Malakhera police station demanding the arrest of the accused. The incident took place at 3pm on Thursday when the ill-fated Dharmi Jogi was putting fencing over his farm. Suddenly, at least 24 persons attacked him with batons and iron rods. “It was alleged in the FIR that accused, identified as Aarif, Taiyyab, Honey, Gillad and Mormal along with their accomplices, barged into the farm of Dharmi Jogi and attacked him with iron rods and batons. He was mercilessly beaten,” said a senior officer of Malakhera police station.  Jogi was rushed to the nearby hospital where he succumbed to the injuries. Three other members of Jogi’s family who came for rescue were also been beaten up badly by the assailants.  Rajesh, son of the deceased, talking to TOI, said, “We were putting fencing over our farm when Arif, Taiyaab, Honey and Gillad along with at least 20 people came and thrashed us badly. My brother Hariom and I got injuries. My sister Savita had to run away to save herself. They had also opened fire while beating us.”  “Assailants also warned us if we will inform police they will kill our whole family,” he added.  In the evening a large number of force was deployed in the area to maintain law and order and any further communal clash. On the other hand, members of the Hindu outfits staged dharna outside the Malakhera police station demanding arrest of the assailants.  Police, so far have taken one person in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-beaten-to-death-over-fencing-of-farm-3-injured/articleshow/79555043.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 40% rise in ear ailments due to overuse of earphones||BHOPAL: There has been an increase of more than 40% in complaints related to ear ailments in Covid-19 times and a majority of these are related to the overuse of headphones and ear plugs, say experts. There are two major complaints and it is mostly teenagers who are facing it — one is tinnitus (perception of noise or ringing in the ears) and then infection in the ears. Unfortunately, there is no definite treatment to tinnitus, which is also considered an early sign of deafness, say experts. “Post-lockdown, there is an increase of around 40% in the number of patients complaining about tinnitus or infection in ears. These are mostly teenagers,” Dr Yashveer JK, assistant professor at PNT department, Gandhi Medical College told TOI. He added, “And for tinnitus, there is no definite cure. It also means that deafness could be early in the teenagers suffering from it, like if people suffer deafness in old ages, it could be earlier. The major cause is prolonged usage of headphones and ear plugs. Ear plugs are also leading to infections.” “Most importantly, there no requirement of headphones in online classes, it is better to use the sound of the laptop or if need be, attach speakers to it. If it is unavoidable, use headphones that too only for maximum an hour at a stretch. What we have observed is, kids use headphones for hearing music etc, but with online classes added to it, the total duration of using such things is increasing. Thus if one can’t avoid headphones in online classes, stop using it for other things like hearing music etc.” Expressing similar sentiments, senior PNT surgeon of the city, Dr Satya Prakash Shukla, said, “Tinnitus and infection in ears is a major complaint and cases where kids are approaching us with these problems have increased significantly now. First of all, ear plugs should be avoided at any cost. If at all using such things is important, use headphones and keep the volume lower.” “For kids of lower ages, usage should not be more than 45 minutes at a stretch, thus after every class of 45 minutes, it is important to have a break. Proper hygiene should also be maintained while using headphones as it may lead to infections. Ear plugs should be avoided for the same reason, as a majority of infection cases are related to ear plugs. Moreover, if there is any kind of itching in the ear, parents should consult a doctor immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/40-rise-in-ear-ailments-due-to-overuse-of-earphones/articleshow/79553690.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 4, 2020||Jaipur||Dholpur & MP cops to jointly check Chambal bandit menace||Jaipur: In a campaign against the bandits active in the ravines of Dholpur, Rajasthan police on Thursday had a joint meeting with Madhya Pradesh police and initiated a campaign against the dacoits active in the region. Police have shared a list of wanted dacoits and stated that both the state police will work mutually to nail down the notorious bandits active in the region.At Dholpur, the dacoits like Keshav Gujjar, Laden and Mukesh Thakur are on the run and are wanted in more than a dozen cases of extortion, loot and robbery. “It is seen that whenever we raid a place or village, the dacoits enter the neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, in areas including Bhind, Murena and others. Thus, we want to ensure that no inter-state beat clash occurs and we can nail them down easily. So, I invited the superintendent of police, Murena and other police officers of Madhya Pradesh to have mutual exchange of information related to the bandits,” Kesar Singh, superintendent of police, Dholpur told TOI over phone. Singh added that almost a month ago, raids were conducted to nab Keshav Gujjar but he managed to flee from the scene. “Ravines of Chambal are widespread and pass through neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. Thus, if we come to know that a dacoit has fled towards MP we should have mutual coordination and cooperation,” Singh added. Senior officers of Madhya Pradesh police including Mukesh Thakur, superintendent of police Murena and other policemen came for the meeting with the senior officers of the Dholpur police and assured that both the state police would ensure inter-state exchange of information and will strengthen their network of informers. “We have also shared the details of villagers who give shelter to fleeing bandits and will keep an eye on them,” he added. Police have exchanged a list of at least 12 bandits and their gang members on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dholpur-mp-cops-to-jointly-check-chambal-bandit-menace/articleshow/79555039.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Interns seek better pay for Covid duty||Ahmedabad: Medical interns doing Covid-19 duty at government medical colleges have demanded better pay in line with what is paid to their counterparts at NHL Medical College. As many as 800 MBBS interns from government colleges in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat are demanding that their stipend of Rs 12,500 per month be revised to at least Rs 15,000 per month with additional pay of Rs 500 per day.Khushbu Somaiya, an intern doctor at PDU Medical College, Rajkot, said they are being paid less than their juniors who are in their final year of MBBS studies. “According to a recent Gujarat government order, final year students of medical courses like MBBS, BDS, physiotherapy and nursing are to be given Rs 15,000 stipend per month for performing Covid-19 duty. We (MBBS passed interns) should definitely receive better remuneration than them. At least more than Rs 20,000 per month is what we expect,” Somaiya said. In a letter to Nitin Patel, deputy CM and minister of health, interns of BJ Medical College, Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad, said their monthly stipend of Rs 12,800 from their college is meagre to what their counterparts are paid in many other states.“We are not being given any additional benefits or honorariums for our duty, in which we put ourselves and sometimes our parents in danger of infection,” they wrote in the letter. These interns are on duty at various hospital departments such as the ICU, OPD, emergency and triage and also for Covid testing at the 1,200-bed Covid hospital on the Civil Hospital campus.In Mumbai, the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) pays Rs 39,000 a month over and above the regular stipend to all medical interns performing Covid duties.“Our stipend is Rs 12,800. Our counterparts at LG and NHL Medical Colleges are get their regular stipend plus Rs 500 per day extra for Covid duty. From the second year onward, BDS and BSc Nursing students are receiving the same under the AMC. We at least deserve more than our juniors,” said Vishal Jani, who is an intern at the 1200-bed hospital.The government of West Bengal also increased the stipend of interns to Rs 28,050 per month as a “token of recognition and appreciation for the selfless work done”.“In the case of BMC, the overall monthly income of interns will be at least Rs 50,000, in the case of West Bengal it will be Rs 59,000 per month,” said sources. A senior state health department official told TOI that they have received the interns’ demands. “So far, no discussion or decision has taken place on this,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/interns-seek-better-pay-for-covid-duty/articleshow/79555040.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Madurai||Burevi weakens, but hits normal life||Madurai/Trichy: Most parts of the state were soaked in incessant rain throughout the day as people braced for the impact of Cyclone Burevi, which however weakened and changed into a deep depression by evening. Minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar confirmed in Tenkasi that the cyclone, which was moving towards the Pamban coast, had turned into a low depression over the bay which though would bring heavy to moderate rain to many districts. Normal life was affected in the southern and central districts as the rain kept people indoors and key roads in major towns sported a deserted look. A 60-year-old woman in Sivaganga district was electrocuted when she accidentally stepped on a live wire. In all, 5,777 people were shifted to relief shelters in Ramanathapuram while rainwater inundated many low-lying residential areas in Madurai and Trichy besides paddy crops in the delta districts. Madurai experienced one of the wettest days in recent times turning many places in the city and its outskirts slushy and muddy. Vandiyur tank bordered by K K Nagar, Melamadai, Gomathypuram and Pandikoil was brimming as water overflowed through the sluices on the southern side. The city experienced an average rainfall of 13.27 mm in the last 24 hours, Sivaganga 25.83 mm, Dindigul 13.37 mm and Ramanathapuram 46.64 mm till 8 AM on Thursday. Rameswaram received the highest rainfall of 120 mm till 8 AM and 61.40 mm in the next eight hours. Mudukulathor in the district also received 105 mm till AM. The sea remained rough in Rameswaram and Pamban with sea water entering some of the coastal villages. In the central region, Trichy received substantial rainfall averaging 22 mm rainfall till Thursday morning while Vedaranyam and Thalaignayiru in Nagapattinam district recorded 193 mm and 142 mm rain respectively, the highest rainfall recorded in the delta region. In Tiruvarur district, Thiruthuraipoondi received 130 mm of rain. As heavy rain lashed Manapparai in the early hours, district collector S Sivarasu visited there and held a meeting with revenue department officials. IMD has forecast substantial rainfall in Trichy for the next three days. Incessant and heavy rains affected normal life in delta districts by confining people indoors. Heavy rain damaged two thatched houses in Peravurani taluk in Thanjavur. District collector M Govinda Rao said the district has received 296.41 mm rain so far, against its average rainfall of 637.02 mm. Out of 13 lakes and tanks coming under Vennaru division, six lakes have 75% water. While three tanks are half-filled, four lakes have less than half the level of water, the collector added. There are about 32 coastal villages in the over 40 km-long Pudukottai coastline. High tides induced by cyclonic wind damaged fishing net kept on the shores after sea water came up to 30 feet on the coast. A total of 77 low-lying vulnerable areas were identified in the district fom where villagers were being evacuated to relief camps. The district collector has formed 11 teams comprising officials across departments to closely watch the ground situation and act accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/burevi-weakens-but-hits-normal-life/articleshow/79555887.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Alternative roads to Behala to remain open; additional cops on bridge||KOLKATA: The pain of getting stuck on the Bailey Bridge railway crossing or taking a 45-minute bus ride from Taratala to Mominpore via Taratala RoadHyde RoadRemount Road for the past 27 months is finally over. From Friday, barring medium and heavy goods vehicles, traffic can zip from Pathakpara in Behala to Mominpore in less than five minutes. Kolkata Police announced a slew of measures to make commute smooth and avoid snarls. Moreover, the alternative routes that were made available to around 10.5 lakh Behala residents during the reconstruction of the bridge — rechristened Jai Hind Bridge — will remain open. This will include the bailey bridge, which will now allow traffic flow towards Alipore (from New Alipore) throughout the day “until further orders” and the Tolly Nullah link bridge from BL Saha Road in Behala. So, Alipore Park Road will continue to remain one-way against the demand of the locals. This will prove beneficial to hundreds of New Alipore residents who may want to skip the traffic signals at the busy Taratala crossing. Sources said a meeting between the PWD and railways to decide on this is expected soon. Police said all vehicles — two-wheelers (barring cycles), autos, cars and buses — towards Mominpore on D H Road on the north or to Behala in the south will avail the Jai Hind Bridge. All buses plying on Behala, Maheshtala, Budge Budge and Diamond Harbour-Namkhana routes will take the Majerhat Bridge. “Unless there is a sudden long-tailed jam on and around the ROB, we have no plans for diversion. People will try to gofor joy rides initially increasing the traffic load. Hence, we are posting additional sergeants in the area,” said an officer from south-west traffic guard. Police have calibrated the traffic signal timings at both Remount Road and Mominpur crossings. “With the stretch between Mominpore and Kidderpore being accident-prone, we shall now ensure that the bus bay is maintained given most cars will take this route. We are expecting a major decrease in traffic around Chetla and on Durgapur Bridge, which will soon undergo a health inspection,” said an officer. Sahapur Road and N R Avenue will now be both-way for all vehicles. This will mean that vehicles bound for Durgapur Bridge from Behala will no longer take the Taratala flyover-NR Avenue route. Instead, they can travel below Taratala flyover and take a right towards New Alipore via Sahapur Road. But for smaller vehicles, the police will be allowing movement via the Tolly Nullah link from BL Saha Road in Behala. “With commuters set to take more buses now to Esplanade and Howrah, we are hoping for a drop in traffic on the Karunamoyee Bridge too in a week,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alternative-roads-to-behala-to-remain-open-addl-cops-on-bridge/articleshow/79553703.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||13 Covid deaths in state in 24 hours||Ahmedabad: Thirteen more people succumbed to coronavirus infections over a 24-hour period ending at 5pm on Thursday. All thirteen deaths were reported from the municipal corporation-governed areas i.e. city limits of all four major cities of Gujarat namely Ahmedabad (9), Vadodara (1), Surat and Rajkot. This is for the third time in a fortnight that all Covid-19 deaths in the state were reported from four major cities.This took the total death toll of Covid-19 patients to 4,031 persons. For the second consecutive day, Ahmedabad city reported daily deaths in single digits. There was a marginal rise in the number of fresh coronavirus infection cases reported in the state with some 1,540 fresh cases reported during the 24-hour period, according to data furnished by the state health department.With this, Gujarat has 14,913 active cases as on Thursday. Of these, 96 patients are still on ventilator support whereas 14,817 are in a stable condition. Some 1,472 patients were discharged from various hospitals across the state.The number of critical patients has marginally increased as some 96 patients are currently on ventilator support. At 312 fresh cases, Ahmedabad reported the highest number of cases in the state and for the third consecutive day, the city’s daily case tally was above 300. At least 59% of the fresh cases reported in the state on Thursday i.e. 907 cases of the total in Gujarat came from four major districts namely Ahmedabad (336), Vadodara (184), Surat (246) and Rajkot (141).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/13-covid-deaths-in-state-in-24-hours/articleshow/79555076.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||Rita faces NBW for poll code violation||Lucknow: Special MPMLA court on Thursday issued NBW against MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi in connection with a case of violating election code of conduct. Judge PK Rai also issued notice to her sureties. The court fixed January 4 as the next date of hearing. The strategic magistrate of surveillance team Mukesh Kumar had lodged an FIR in February 2012, saying Joshi was campaigning in Bajrang Nagar even after the time for campaign was over. After a probe, a chargesheet was filed against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rita-faces-nbw-for-poll-code-violation/articleshow/79555886.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Online petitions demand justice for farmers||AMBALA: While thousands of farmers continue to camp in and around New Delhi to protest against the three agricultural laws of the Centre, internet users (netizens) from all over the world have taken to an online platform, Change.org to express their support for the nation’s annadaata (food producers). Over the last two days, over 4,47,776 people have signed petitions on Change.org demanding justice for farmers. Lakhs of people have signed these petitions over the last three days. A large number of petitions have been started on the issue, the biggest among them by Indian nationals in the United Kingdom (UK), Canada, and United States (US). In fact, rapid digital activism by the Punjabi diaspora, especially the Sikh community in Canada, UK, and US has been instrumental in drumming up support for protesting farmers. Canadian prime ,inister Justin Trudeau, his defence minister Harjit Sajjan, and other lawmakers from Canada as well as the UK have spoken out in support of Indian farmers gathered to protest in Delhi. The biggest petition was started by the American Sikh Council and has been signed by over 94,000 people over the last three days. A petition by Prabhjot Bath, a resident of the UK, has received over 83,000 signatures. Another rapidly growing petition, titled ‘Justice for farmers of India’, was started by Canada-based Gina Takhar on Saturday, November 28. Indian diaspora are raising concerns that the three new farm laws are expected to change the way farm produce is procured, stored and sold in India by allowing private corporations to become directly involved in the farm economy like never before in the history of country. Some say this might leave smaller farmers at the mercy of powerful corporations who might use their purchasing, warehousing, and stock holding power to dictate terms, resulting in a small oligarchy controlling India’s food production and distribution. Most petitions are asking for the withdrawal of the three farm laws introduced by the government. However, some are raising other demands as well. Like give farmers a “guaranteed Minimum Support Price” for their produce, declare the usage of “water cannons” by police during north India’s harsh winters as illegal and urging the government to “drop charges” against Navdeep Singh (a farmer’s son who climbed atop a water cannon being used by the police on protestors and turned it off), Another petition asks the Indian media to either report neutrally or announce their political bias on air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-petitions-demand-justice-for-farmers/articleshow/79555045.cms||JK Singh
December 4, 2020||Amritsar||Jathedar calls for support to farmers||AMRITSAR: While exhorting the Sikh youth living abroad to raise their voice in support of agitating farmers in India, the officiating jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh asked them to take a keen interest in the political activities of their respective countries so as to raise a unanimous voice from across the globe for the issues of their community and countries. “Efforts are being made to engage us in the gurdwara politics and we are also knee-deep involved in the same but the need of the hour is that we should come out of the gurdwara politics and wherever the Sikh youth are living they should take part in the political activities of their respective countries so as to fight for our community and country and raise voice in support of labourers and farmers from those political platforms,” said Harpreet Singh. Stating that farmers of the country were braving the cold and freezing nights on the roads, the officiating jathedar also appealed to the Sikh youth of New York to participate in a demonstration being held on December 3 to mount pressure on the Indian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/jathedar-calls-for-support-to-farmers/articleshow/79555048.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 4, 2020||Chandigarh||Bathinda farmer, 57, dies during protest||BATHINDA: Another protester, 57-year-old farmer Lakhbir Singh, from Laleana village of Bathinda in Punjab, died at Tikri border of Delhi. he passed away after a cardiac arrest late on Wednesday night. He had arrive the protest with site other farmers from Dabwali a week back. Lakhbir’s is the sixth death related to farmers’ protest on Delhi border against the Centre’s recent agriculture laws. Earlier, farmer Barjinder Singh, 32 had, died in a road accident near Kurukshetra while returning from Delhi. Another farmer Dhanna Singh had also died in a road accident in Bhiwani, enroute Delhi. Mechanic Janak Raj, 60, died near Tikri border when the car he was sleeping in caught fire, while farmer Gajjan Singh died of cardiac arrest. On Wednesday, Gurjant Singh, 60, of Bachhoana village in Mansa district had also died during protest. BKU Ekta Ugrahan Bathinda secretary Harjinder Singh Baggi said Lakhbir was an active member of the farm organisation and was a regular at their protests. The family owned 5 acres land. The farm body demanded financial aid for his family. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has so far announced ex gratia relief of Rs 5 lakh for yje families of two farmers belonging to Mansa and Moga districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bathinda-farmer-57-dies-during-protest/articleshow/79555046.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||Sugar glut: Output up 12 lakh tonnes despite ethanol diversion in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Enhanced sugar recovery in current crushing season in Uttar Pradesh was evident from jacked-up production by at least 111 operational mills despite diverting B-heavy molasses for ethanol. Experts say high production could once again trigger a sugar glut, resulting in price drop. November 30 data by Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) showed as many as 28 mills diverted B-heavy molasses — first stage of cane juice processing — for production of ethanol, which is essentially used to supplement fuel, mainly petrol. In the corresponding period in 2019, only 18 mills diverted B-heavy molasses for ethanol production. Despite this, sugar production in the state has gone a notch higher to 12.65 lakh tonnes in comparison to 11.46 lakh tonnes last year. Nationally, 408 sugar mills were in operation as on November 30 and have produced 42.90 lakh tonnes of sugar. In comparison, by November 30 last year, 309 mills were in operation and generated 20.72 lakh tonnes of sugar. The fresh projection vis-à-vis sugar production comes ahead of UP government’s decision to revise State Advisory Price (SAP), which fixes compensation to farmers by mills. “B-heavy molasses has higher sugar contest, which results in greater ethanol content,” said a miller. “However, in the process, the mills compromise on sugar,” he added. Experts said because of diversion of B-heavy molasses to ethanol, sugar production gets reduced by around 1.5% in comparison to sugar recovered from C-heavy molasses, which is final stage of cane juice processing. Sources said, the Centre is promoting diversion of B-heavy molasses for production of ethanol, which yields better rates to the millers. “It is a kind of incentive by the Centre to mills,” an official said. “This also results in reduction of sugar production. Since the price of sugar has not been rising, millers are diverting intermediate molasses for ethanol production to increase their income,” an ISMA official said. Ethanol is produced with the help of extra neutral alcohol, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sugar-glut-output-up-12l-tn-despite-ethanol-diversion/articleshow/79555891.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: PM Modi to lay foundation stones of two projects||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat on December 15 to lay the foundation stones of two projects in Kutch district — a mega renewable energy park and a desalination plant — chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Thursday. Speaking to reporters at a function, Rupani said the hybrid renewable energy park, with both solar panels and windmills, will be the “world’s biggest” with power generation capacity of 30,000MW. “This project is coming up in the desert of Kutch. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be in Kutch on December 15 to perform the ground-breaking ceremony of this park,” he said. In September, the state cabinet cleared the long pending proposal for the biggest renewable energy (solar and wind) park at Kutch, spread over 60,000 hectares. Other formalities for setting up the park are over and agencies can also start ground work in the coming days after the foundation stone is laid by PM Modi. The hybrid renewable energy park is expected to attract investments of around Rs.1.35 lakh crore in the next two years. The PMO has set a deadline of 2022 for completion of the project. PM reviews the Kutch hybrid renewable power through his monthly PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) system for assessment of nationally important projects. “On the same day, the PM will also perform the ground-breaking ceremony of a desalination plant at Mandvi in Kutch. This plant will provide fresh water for farming, industries and drinking,” Rupani added. Modi last visited Gujarat on November 28, when he spent around an hour at drug maker Zydus Cadila’s Biotech Park to assess work on its Covid-19 vaccine. He had also visited the state in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-to-lay-foundation-stones-of-2-projects/articleshow/79553706.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Demand for ventilators rises with second surge in cases||AHMEDABAD: After witnessing a dry spell in sales with inventory piling up to nearly 300 unsold units in October, Max Ventilators, one of the leading ventilator manufacturers in the country, has seen a sudden spike in demand over the last few weeks. The company has since sold some 600 ventilators with a fresh revival in demand, according to Ashok Patel, founder and MD of Max Ventilators. The company made these sales in states such as Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala and Karnataka. About 100 were sold in Kochi, he added. Max Ventilators, a part of Vadodara-based AB Industries saw a turnaround in its fortunes this year. It sold more than 1,500 ICU ventilators between April and November compared to about 250 in all of 2019. “In the last few weeks, there has been an increase in fresh Covid-19 cases. Like earlier, Covid facilities are again filling up. There has been a resurgence in demand for ventilators, the indispensable life-saving device for Covid patients. This surge in demand for ventilators with rising cases has been seen from Dussehra and Diwali,” Patel said. The company went on a massive expansion drive as the Covid-19 crisis arose, where it ramped up its manufacturing capacity from 30 ventilators per month to 1,000 a month. “Constantly monitoring the Covid-19 numbers across the country and the world, we had anticipated that the coming winter would see more cases which in turn would drive demand for ventilators. That is exactly how events have turned out,” said Patel. Since Dussehra, there has been a 35% increase in demand for ventilators, he added. “We take pride in the fact that due to the demand surge, Max Ventilators alone has accounted for 15% of supply of ventilators,” Patel said. Max also has a strategic tie up with BHEL for manufacturing another 1,500 ventilators a month at Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/demand-for-ventilators-rises-with-second-surge-in-cases/articleshow/79555072.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||Bihar man 1st to undergo revision knee replacement op in Jharkhand||Ranchi: A private hospital here got a Bihar-based senior citizen — who was bed-ridden for more than a year following a knee replacement operation — back on his feet after performing a rare surgery at its recently launched centre of excellence in joint replacement. A relieved Shiv Gobind Pal was discharged from Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital on Wednesday. Pal was the first patient in Jharkhand to undergo a revision knee replacement surgery. Usually such patients go to Mumbai, Chennai and New Delhi for knee replacement surgeries but now they can get the necessary treatment at Medica Institute of Orthopaedic Sciences (MIOS) here. MIOS will prove to be a boon especially for those who, like Pal, got their bones around the knee severely damaged due to a knee replacement surgery. According to the doctors at Medica, Pal (67), a resident of Rohtas district, had undergone a knee implant four years ago but in 2018 he started experiencing severe pain which ultimately left him bed-ridden. He visited Medica in March this year and the doctors recommended the rare surgery but it had to be delayed due to the nationwide lockdown. The operation was ultimately performed on November 28 by a team of experts that was led by Dr Ankur Saurabh and Dr Kumar Vishal. “He had developed a deformity due to the damaged bones. We had to remove the old implant, put a suitably designed one and then strengthen his damaged bones. After a three-and-a-half-hours-long surgery, his deformity could be rectified and the patient started walking from the next day itself,” Dr Saurabh said. Dr Saurabh took the opportunity to advise such patients not to worry and instead get the required treatment in Medica so that they can go about their daily activities, like Pal. “Pal will not face any issues in walking for the next 15 years at least,” he added. “A few people, who had come to Medica, had advised me to go there for my knee problems and I am glad I came here,” said Pal when asked how he got to know about the treatment centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bihar-man-1st-to-undergo-revision-knee-replacement-op-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79553759.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||E-learning app for Classes IX to XII launched in Jharkhand||Ranchi: In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday launched a personalised online learning platform called ‘learnytic’ for students studying in Class IX to Class XII. The app, launched during the award distribution ceremony among students and schools at Project Building, would contain amended learning material, e-books, practice papers, performance report and corrective education material. Around 10.14 lakh students of 3,546 government schools of the state are likely to benefit from the app. Sources said that an organisation called Learnytic is providing the service to students on a voluntary basis. An official said, “The app has better course materials and self-assessment papers and also useful links for enabling the students to understand the subject matter well.” The CM also formally launched the Jharkhand digi-school app, which provides study material to government school students till Class VIII, on Thursday. The training module for ‘school and wellness scheme’, which has several themes like health and emotional well-being, nutrition, sanitation, gender equality, prevention and management of substance abuse, promotion of healthy lifestyle, reproductive health and HIV prevention, safety and security against violence and safe use of internet and gadgets, was also launched during the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-learning-app-for-classes-ix-to-xii-launched-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79554112.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||Uncertainty over panchayat polls in Jharkhand due to lack of SEC||Ranchi: Uncertainty looms over the election to the three-tier panchayati system in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The lack of a state election commissioner (SEC), too, has become a major hurdle in chalking out the modalities for the elections, which are due in December. The term of the existing panchayats will expire next month on January 4. State panchayati raj director Aditya Ranjan said that the government was yet to decide on holding the polls. “We have recently suggested the names of four retired judges to the government. We will get a clarity on the elections only after the SEC is chosen,” he said, adding that there was still a chance that elections could be held prior to the dissolution of the existing panchayat bodies. Asked what will happen if the polls get delayed, he said, “Then the state government will have to form samitis to run the panchayats till the polls are conducted.” Vikash Mahto, the president of the Jharkhand State Mukhiya Sangh, has appealed to the government to extend the tenure of panchayat bodies in the event of polls getting delayed. “Mukhiyas and panchayat bodies have played a crucial role in combating Covid-19 by conducting awareness drives and implementing schemes in their jurisdiction to prevent infection. At the same time, they also walked the extra mile to offer jobs during the lockdown crisis to scores of migrants. Without functional panchayats, development work at the grass-roots will take a hit leading to rural distress. Hence, the government must consider giving an extension of six months to all the elected panchayat bodies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/uncertainty-over-panchayat-polls-in-jharkhand-due-to-lack-of-sec/articleshow/79553613.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||Cov test rates cut at pvt labs in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The state government has slashed the cost of Covid-19 tests at private laboratories in Jharkhand, bringing the maximum price for an RT-PCR test down at Rs.800 and that for Rapid Antigen Test down to Rs.150. Notably, the state government had fixed RT-PCR rates twice since the outbreak of the pandemic. On June 24, the government capped the rate of RT-PCR test at Rs 2,400 and then reduced it to Rs 1,500 on September 16. As per a notification issued by state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni late in Wednesday night, cost for a TrueNat test was fixed at Rs 1,100 and for CBNAAT at Rs 2,200. The testing cost of IgG-based ELISA test remained unchanged at Rs 250. Talking to TOI, Kulkarni said: “The decision to reduce Covid testing rates was taken as the prices of VTM and other testing kits have come down. All prices are inclusive of all taxes, reporting and documentation charges. Anyone charging more than the fixed rates will be booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act.” Kulkarni added that the private labs have also been asked to send a copy of the test reports to the civil surgeon of the district concerned as well as to the state IDSP unit on a daily basis. “If they fail to do so, action will be taken against them,” Kulkarni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-test-rates-cut-at-pvt-labs-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79553902.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum to prepare task force, health workers database for mass vax drive||Jamshedpur: Acting on directives from the state health department, the East Singhbhum administration is working on the modalities of constituting a task force for distribution of any vaccine for Covid-19 that is approved by the Centre. Sources said Work is already on for the construction of a vaccine storage facility at the district leprosy centre. At the department level, all preparations will be made so that the administration process can begin as soon as vaccine is approved and there are no delays in distribution in urban and rural areas. The sources in the district health department said a monitoring committee will be formed with DC Suraj Kumar and 17 other members to oversee the entire process of distribution and other administration of the vaccine. Once the committee is constituted, the members will meet every Saturday at 11.30am at the district headquarters. A notice from the district civil surgeon's office says that attendance at these meetings, chaired by the DC, will be compulsory for all members. The sources said that all efforts will be made to ensure that there is no shortage of health workers for the speedy distribution of vaccines. Civil surgeon R N Jha has instructed private health clinics to prepare data on health workers required for the mass vaccination campaign. Officials in Jha's office said anganwadi sevikas, NGO and social organization workers could be roped in for the purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/east-singhbhum-to-prepare-task-force-health-workers-database-for-mass-vax-drive/articleshow/79553704.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||Govt to rollout scholarship scheme for students eyeing degrees abroad: Hemant||Ranchi: The state government would provide monetary support to students desiring to study abroad, chief minister Hemant Soren said on Thursday. The CM was speaking at an award distribution ceremony at the Project Building here on Thursday afternoon. Soren addeds that the scheme will be finalized soon. He said: “The scholarship plan is likely to be one of its kind in the nation. Students aiming to study abroad would not face monetary crisis. On many occasions, students face hurdles in securing education loan from banks.” While distributing awards among the toppers of different boards and the schools that participated in a hygiene competition, the CM said the government would ensure that the awards were given out within a month of the publication of results from next year. He said that school education has been the worst-affected by the pandemic and new ways have to be formulated to discharge the responsibilities if the virus cannot be contained soon. A total of 47 students were felicitated for securing the top three ranks in the Jharkhand Academic Council, CBSE and ICSE Class X and Class XII examinations. The matriculation toppers were awarded Rs 1 lakh, while the intermediate toppers were given Rs 3 lakh each. Students securing the second position in matriculation were provided Rs 75,000, while Rs 50,000 was given to students ranked third. The second and third-ranked students of the intermediate examinations were provided Rs 2 lakh and Rs 1 lakh, respectively. As many as nine out of the 119 schools chosen for the excellence in ‘swachhta (hygiene)’ competition were awarded. The rest would be felicitated at the district level. It may be stated here that 44,441 schools took part in the competition. The assessment was done on the basis of a few parameters, such as drinking water facility, toilets, availability of handwash, maintenance of school premises and behavioural change among students regarding hygiene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-to-rollout-scholarship-scheme-for-students-eyeing-degrees-abroad-hemant/articleshow/79553442.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||CM asks health dept to fill up vacancies, modernise hospitals||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday asked officers of the state health, medical education and family welfare department to modernise Jharkhand’s hospitals to ensure that they function round the clock. Reviewing the department’s works in Project Building, Soren also directed the department to make recruitments to end shortages of manpower in the state-run medical colleges, hospitals and health centres. “There is no need for constructing new buildings. Instead, the newly constructed buildings, which have not been put to use by the health department and by other departments yet, must be used for the same,” Soren was quoted as saying in a statement issued in the evening. After the Covid-19 pandemic exposed its ramshackle situation, Soren directed the department to ensure a facelift of Jamshedpur-based Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College and Hospital. He also asked officers to speak to the management of the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) to bolster infrastructure of the Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), which is under administrative control of SAIL subsidiary Bokaro Steel Limited. Both hospitals were used a Covid-19 critical care facility at the peak of the pandemic earlier this year, exposing major loopholes. In the meeting, which was attended by health minister Banna Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and senior bureaucrats, Soren was also briefed about Jharkhand’s Covid-19 scenario. Briefing the current Covid-19 care infrastructure, health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said the state currently has 2,021 beds equipped with oxygen, 12,358 beds without oxygen support, 577 ICU beds and 642 ventilators. A statement issued by Soren’s office stated that the health department is increasing vaccine storage centres from the existing 245 ones in anticipation of the Covid-19 vaccine. “The CM was informed that a state-level screening committee and task forces at the state, district and block levels have already been constituted,” the statement read. Soren also sought a compliance report on the instructions issued at Thursday’s meeting within a fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cm-asks-health-dept-to-fill-up-vacancies-modernise-hospitals/articleshow/79553531.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||JMM targets Ranchi mayor for ‘blocking development’||Ranchi: JMM on Thursday accused Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra and deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargia of blocking developmental work in many wards under Ranchi Municipal Corporation’s (RMC) jurisdiction on grounds of political vendetta. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya rallied seven ward councillors -- all of them belonging to tribal and other minority groups -- and demanded that the state government do a special audit of RMC’s expenditure and the work orders received since 2015. Bhattacharya produced a list of work which he and the disgruntled councillors claimed were either deferred or scrapped by Lakra. The work detailed in Bhattacharya’s list were construction of drains, roads, installations of electric poles and hand pumps. He said that Lakra, Vijawargia and BJP’s Ranchi MLA C P Singh, who was the urban development minister from 2015 to 2019, connived during the tenure of former chief minister Raghubar Das to deliberately block developmental work in wards where the saffron party did not have a vote base. “The work orders and tenders issued by RMC are being handed to a select few at the behest of the mayor and deputy mayor. During Singh’s tenure as the urban development minister, there were many shady work which were done, such as the rejuvenation of Harmu river, beautification of Bada Talab, etc.,” he claimed. Singh could not be reached for his comments and Lakra, on the other hand, denied the allegations but refused to comment on the matter further upon contact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-targets-ranchi-mayor-for-blocking-development/articleshow/79553650.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-mayor cuts cake, chops rules||Vadodara: Despite the Supreme court and Gujarat high court coming down heavily on social gatherings, netas continue to violate Covid-19 rules with brazen audacity. The latest in the series of violations by politicians is the birthday of former Vadodara mayor Sunil Solanki celebrated by his supporters and party workers. On Wednesday evening, Solanki had remained present at the BJP office in the evening to meet supporters who were coming to the office in large numbers as they were jubilant after his recent appointment as the city unit general secretary of the BJP. Solanki was celebrating his 50th birthday. Solanki had decided to celebrate the day with a novel gesture with persons working at the Khaswadi crematorium in the city that is the largest and was the first crematorium to be used for Covid-19 bodies. He along with family members distributed shawls and sarees to workers at the crematorium and their relatives. But things seemingly didn’t go the way the former mayor would have expected as a beeline of supporters and party workers started coming to greet him individually or in groups at the BJP office. Some even came with cakes. The video of Solanki with one such group went viral on Thursday. While many did not wear masks at all, others had their masks dangling on their chins. On his part, Solanki said that the gathering should not have taken place. “People came to meet me since there was no restriction on people meeting each other. But at that particular moment, some of them got together in a large number unexpectedly,” he said. Sayajigunj police inspector, S G Solanki said, "We have booked 10 persons in the case. Six have been arrested while four including former mayor Sunil Solanki is yet be nabbed. Solanki wasn't available at his home and we were told that he has gone somewhere. He will be arrested too." More names will be added in the list of accused based on the video. All have been booked under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and sections of Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-mayor-cuts-cake-chops-rules/articleshow/79552842.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||Drive against illegal parking in Steel City||Jamshedpur: The traffic police have launched a fresh drive against unauthorized parking and violation of other traffic laws. In the past one week, traffic cops have issued over 100 challans daily for parking violations. Moreover, fines worth Rs 1.25 lakh have been levied per day on an average during the ongoing drive. The drive has mainly been carried out on streets adjacent to the markets in Sakchi, Bistupur, Mango, Golmuri and around the Marine Drive area. For instance, helmet and seat-belt checking were being conducted at the Straight Mile Road (connecting Kadma to Sakchi), Kalimati Road (connecting Sakchi to Golmuri), Dimna Road (connecting Mango to Dimna), Bistupur-Jugsalai Road, Sakchi-Baridih Road, Telco-Golmuri Road and the Railway Station Road in Jugsalai. “Along with unauthorized parking and traffic violations, we are also penalizing those not wearing masks in public,” said DSP traffic Baban Kumar Singh. Jamshedpur reported 311 road accidents in 2018, of which 159 were fatal. Of the 349 accidents reported in 2019, 221 were fatal. There were 140 road accidents and 40 deaths in between January and June this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/drive-against-illegal-parking-in-steel-city/articleshow/79554181.cms||B Sridhar
December 4, 2020||Ranchi||6 Cov deaths take toll to 977 in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The state’s Covid casualty rate crept up to 0.89% as Jharkhand reported six deaths, 233 new and 208 recoveries reported on Thursday. As per government data, as many as 1,09,771 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,06,868 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 97.35%. A total of 977 patients have died while 1,926 are still battling infection. Among the six deaths, state capital Ranchi accounted for three while Hazaribag, East Singhbhum and Bokaro reported one each. Sixteen of 24 districts reported fresh infections in single digit on Sunday while state capital Ranchi recorded 85 cases, Dhanbad 28 and East Singhbhum 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/6-cov-deaths-take-toll-to-977-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79554067.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||India||‘Can cover rural, urban parts with five shots being tested in India’||NEW DELHI: AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria on Thursday pinned his hopes on the five Covid-19 vaccine candidates which are in advanced stages of clinical trial in India, stating they are logistically feasible for distribution in both urban and rural areas. His assertion comes amid Pfizer-BioNTech’s anti-coronavirus vaccine getting emergency clearance in the UK. Guleria expressed hope that by the end of this month or early next month, at least one of the five vaccines being locally-tested should get emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator to be administered to the public starting with priority groups. According to sources, global pharma giant Pfizer had talks with the Indian government late August, but since then there has been no development. During a briefing last month, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paulsaid that sufficient doses of the Pfizer vaccine as required for the Indian population will not be available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/can-cover-rural-urban-parts-with-five-shots-being-tested-in-india/articleshow/79556865.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||No nod for bandh on Saturday, says Bengaluru top cop||BENGALURU: Elaborate police arrangements have been put in place in the city for Saturday’s Karnataka Bandh called by pro-Kannada organisations to protest the state government’s decision to constitute the Maratha Development Board, said police commissioner Kamal Pant. The top cop said all 18,000 police personnel from Bengaluru (law and order plus traffic) will be deployed and 12 deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) will be on patrol from the morning. “In addition to local police, 30 platoons of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and 22 battalions of City Armed Reserve (CAR) will be stationed in different areas. More deployment will be made at sensitive and hyper-sensitive areas as anti-social elements can take advantage of the situation,” he said. Further, Pant said no permission has been granted for observing the bandh on Saturday. “If anyone tries to force shops to shut down or disturb the public in any manner, s/he will be dealt with sternly.” DCPs of nine divisions on Thursday held meetings in their jurisdictions and discussed Saturday’s security arrangements with their assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) and inspectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-permission-for-tomorrows-bandh-arrangements-in-place-top-cop/articleshow/79553592.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||New Year revelry: Karnataka ministers sing different tunes on curbs||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: While the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee has suggested the government impose night curfew from December 26 to January 1, home minister Basavaraj Bommai and his cabinet colleague, health minister K Sudhakar, voiced diametrically opposite views on the issue of imposing restrictions on New Year celebrations. While Bommai, in Mangaluru, said the government has no plans to impose night curfew to prevent the spread of the SARSCoV2 virus during New Year celebrations, Sudhakar favoured restrictions, saying, “This is not our New year. Our New Year is Ugadi. So why should there be celebrations on December 31?” Bommai said the government will chalk out safety plans to prevent the spread of the virus during celebrations. “We have not discussed imposing night curfew,” the home minister said. “However, our advisers have suggested large gatherings should be avoided. The government will take necessary measures in this direction soon.” Bommai also said Sudhakar will hold meetings to discuss curbs to be imposed and he will take a final call. “Overall, the government wants to ensure all safety measures are in place, based on suggestions from experts,” Bommai said. “There are many measures other than night curfew that the government may adopt to prevent large gatherings.” Sudhakar, who left Congress and joined BJP a year ago, said the government is studying the need and necessity for curfew in the state during Christmas and the run up to New Year as suggested by the technical advisory committee. “I am yet to get their report,” Sudhakar said. “Once I get it, I will look into and discuss with the chief minister and cabinet colleagues before taking a decision.” Justifying the need for possible curbs on movement of people during the last week of the year, Sudhakar said the recommendation was made keeping in mind lack of space when celebrations happen. He said hundreds of people crowd in places like Brigade Road and MG Road in Bengaluru on New Year’s Eve. “We will take cognizance of these matters while taking a decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-year-revelry-karnataka-ministers-sing-different-tunes-on-curbs/articleshow/79556892.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka moves SC over NLSIU domicile quota||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has moved the Supreme Court, challenging the Karnataka high court’s verdict striking down the National Law School India University (NLSIU) Amendment Act, 2020, which provided for 25% horizontal reservation for domicile students. In a special leave petition (SLP), the state has challenged the September 29 verdict, contending the high court erred in holding that NLSIU is not an aided institution despite receipt of annual aid and also placing the Executive Council of the university above the state legislature, which is the creator of the university in question. HC could not have entertained PIL challenging amendment: GovtThe findings in this regard are tantamount to holding that a decision of an authority created by the state legislature would supersede and prevail over the very constitutional authority that created it, namely, the state legislature. In other words, the high court has, in effect, held that once a power is conferred on an authority by the statute, the legislature is powerless,” the state has added. According to the government, the high court could not have entertained PIL filed by two alumni of NLSIU questioning the constitutional validity of the amendment as it would go against dictum of apex court in the Guruvayoor Devaswom Managing Committee case wherein it was held that HCs should not ordinarily entertain a PIL questioning the constitutional validity of a statute. The government pointed out the HC had erred in holding the amendment act to be invalid on the ground that the said amendment is contrary to the intent and spirit of the parent act. As per the SC’s decisions, any legislation can be invalidated only on grounds of lack of legislative incompetence; violation of Part III of the Constitution or any other constitutional provision and manifest arbitrariness, it argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-moves-sc-over-nlsiu-domicile-quota/articleshow/79556626.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Aircraft carrier INS Vikrant to join ENC by 2022-23: Jain||Visakhapatnam: Aircraft carrier INS Vikrant will join the Eastern Naval Command by 2022-23, ENC commanding-in-chief Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain said on Thursday during an interaction with reporters on the eve of Navy Day. A MIG-29 squadron, ALH helicopters, P8-I aircraft, new Shivalik class multi-role frigates and submarines would also be added to the Indian Navy, including the eastern seaboard, over the next few years as there is a need to strengthen the force with more technologically advanced, fuel-efficient ships and bigger weapon systems. “A stronger, modern Navy would help address the artificial intelligence-related challenges,” Jain said. INS Vikrant is currently under construction in Kochi. “The aircraft carrier’s sea trials are expected to be completed in 2021. To maintain a good maritime presence over the largest eastern seaboard, the aircraft carrier is needed and it is expected to join us by 2022-23,” he informed. The vice admiral further said that multi-lateral exercise Milan, which got postponed due to Covid-19 this year, would be held in March 2022 off Visakhapatnam coast alongside a Presidential fleet review and participation from around 40 to 50 international navies. “Work on the Rambilli naval base is on track and it will be ready for operations in a few years,” he added. The ENC chief also spoke about Indian Navy’s pro-active deployment in the Indian Ocean region (IOR) to protect national interests, 24x7 surveillance along the eastern coast, patrolling of offshore assets and missile test firing from ships. He also referred to the challenges from China whose trade interest lies in the Persian Gulf and African countries and bulk of their economy passes through the Indian Ocean. “In another two to four years, our aircraft carriers would escort our trading ships passing through IOR. There is a need for indigenisation and strategic partnerships with friendly countries for the Indian Navy to be self-reliant within a few years,” he said. On the various challenges like containing the spread of Covid-19 in warships and other induction activities of the ENC during 2020, he mentioned about the Naval dockyard’s innovation of multi-feed oxygen manifold, 35 of which was distributed to hospitals including KGH and VIMS, and setting up of a remote patient monitoring system at VIMS. “Further, various bilateral and multi-lateral naval exercises have been undertaken this year with USA, Japan, Australia, Russia, Singapore, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh. Naval ships Jalashwa and Airavat helped evacuate over 3,990 Indians from abroad under operation Samudra Setu. INS Kavaratti (P31), an anti-submarine warfare stealth corvette built indigenously under Project 28 (Kamorta class), was commissioned in October,” the ENC chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aircraft-carrier-ins-vikrant-to-join-enc-by-2022-23-jain/articleshow/79552792.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam’s state-of-the-art fish market to open by month-end||VISAKHAPATNAM: With Visakhapatnam set to host one of the largest fish markets in the country, the Port City is also slated to lose the charm and excitement of early morning fish auctions at the fishing harbour. Once the state-of-the-art new fish market is inaugurated, all retail and wholesale fish sellers will have to visit these markets to purchase their daily requirement. Only fishermen and fish vendors will be allowed at jetty areas where auctions will continue. Visakhapatnam joint director (fisheries) K Phani Prakash said, “In all probability, we are going to inaugurate the new fish market by the end of this month. This market will be unique with the entire infrastructure one can expect inside a fish market.” Old timers such as fishermen activist Arjili Dasu say that early morning auctions at the harbour fish market have always been a sight to watch. Tourists as well as locals would often gather just to get a glimpse of the fish auction conducted by fishermen and vendors. Sometimes, even wholesalers and the common public would also take part, Dasu said. “I still remember holding my father’s hand and visiting the harbour on Sunday mornings to just get a glimpse of the auction. The market used to buzz with activity. However, to keep pace with time, one needs to give way for modernisation,” said KV Prakash, a middle-aged Visakhapatnam resident. The new fish market is coming up right opposite the joint director of fisheries office inside the harbour. According to the initial detailed project report (DPR), the market is expected to process around six to seven tonnes of the nearly 20 varieties of fish handled at the harbour. While the state government will bear around 30 per cent of the project cost, the National Fisheries Development Board will provide 40 per cent. The remaining will be contributed by Tata Trust. The total cost of the project is Rs 2.75 crore. “The fish market will have an automatic cleaning system. All fish vendors will get a black top table to display products. There will be a separate section for cutting and freezing. The market will also include a parking lot, a canteen and other facilities,” joint director Phani Prakash told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/port-citys-state-of-the-art-fish-market-to-open-by-month-end/articleshow/79552834.cms||Arpit Basu
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Age fudged on Aadhaar to claim old age pension in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: After the state government found some people indulge in age fraud on their Aadhaar to claim old age pension (OAP) under YSR Pension Kanuka, volunteers have been asked to verify ages of OAP holders who have joined the scheme recently. Special focus will be on pensioners whose Aadhaar history shows changes of age, date of birth, address, phone number. Some concerned departments, such as the department of rural development, consider Aadhaar as the primary proof of identity for consideration of eligibility for OAP. Taking advantage of this, some people were found changing their age on Aadhaar to get Rs 2,250 as pension every month. The government immediately alerted all issuing authorities, including authorised Aadhaar service centres in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada, to throroughly check validity when people come to change their age on Aadhaar and also while issuing new Aadhaar. Visakhapatnam assistant project officer for rural development, B Ramesh, said, “We are currently re-verifying Aadhaar of pension holders. The government changed the age limit (for OAP) to 60 years from June 2019. Earlier, the age requirement was 65 years.” Polavarapu Sreehari, manager of an authorised Aadhaar centre in Visakhapatnam, said, “We have been instructed to keep a tab on people requesting change of age and on the new applications. We are sending nearly 300 out of 1,500 applications received a day for re-verification.” Sources said that age fraud on Aadhaar is possible in several ways. Some people are believed to have indulged in the fraud through online systems, mediators and by creating fake documents. The number of old age pension holders in Andhra Pradesh as of Thursday stands at 28.27 lakh. Of them, East Godavari has the highest number of pension holders — nearly 3 lakh — while Vizianagaram has the lowest. Nearly 25,000 new OAPs were added to the list since the age requirement was changed from 65 years to 60 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/age-fudged-on-aadhaar-to-claim-old-age-pension/articleshow/79552854.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||664 Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 positive count in Andhra Pradesh increased to 8,70,076 with 664 new cases reported on Thursday. With the discharge of 835 more patients from various hospitals, the total number of recoveries now stands at 8,56,320. The toll increased to 7,014 after 11 deaths were reported on Thursday. According to the media bulletin issued by the State Command Control Room, on Thursday 63,049 tests were performed and of them, 664 were positive cases. The total number of samples tested so far in the state is 1,02,29,745. Krishna and Chittoor districts reported 105 each. Only two districts in the state reported more than 100 cases on Thursday. Visakhapatnam saw its aggregate grow by 73, followed by Guntur with 72, and West Godavari district with 70cases. Seven districts recorded less than 50 cases each. The lowest growth of just 10 cases was seen in Srikakulam district. Active cases are the lowest in Kurnool (153), Vizianagaram (162), Srikakulam (168),Kadapa (183); and the highest in Krishna (1,220), Guntur (1,025), East Godavari (837) and Nellore (702).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/664-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-in-ap/articleshow/79552872.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Bengaluru||10-year-old boy herding cattle killed by crocodile in Karnataka's Raichur||A 10-year-old boy who was herding a cattle at a remote village was killed and eaten by a crocodile. Mallikarjun R’s friends saw him being carried away on Wednesday afternoon, and his remains were found by a river bank on Thursday. Mallikarjun and six of his friends were herding cattle at D Rampura village near Krishna river as they have been doing for the past few months since schools closed. All students of the government school, they would graze cattle till evening on the river banks and return home together. On Wednesday, they ate the lunch they carried from home and went to wash and drink from the river when Mallikarjun was attacked. As he was cupping water, a crocodile grabbed his hand and pulled him away. The children were shocked and shouted for help. By the time villagers arrived, the crocodile vanished with the boy. Coracles were taken out to search for the boy even before police arrived but he could not be traced. Early Thursday morning, the boy’s torso was found near the river bank. A case has been filed in Yapaldinni police station. The incident has sparked a debate in the village over the need for reopening schools to thwart such incidents. The locals are seemingly angry at the government for closing the school pushing economically backward kids into more trouble. While the village mourned the boy, locals said the tragedy would not have occurred had the boys been at school. “Children normally do not go near the water except to drink it,” said MD Rafi who accompanied police on the search operation. “The water level in the river has dropped, making it easier for crocodiles to hunt. There are about six crocodiles in this part of the river and children are easy prey. Since schools are closed, many children are now herding cattle for 8-9 hours a day.” “If schools were opened, this incident would never have happened,” said E Mounesh, another villager. “The parents of this boy are mourning their loss and others are now worried for their children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-year-old-boy-herding-cattle-killed-by-crocodile-in-raichur/articleshow/79553587.cms||Shreyas HS
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Covid care centres in Srikakulam to close soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid care centres (CCCs) in Srikakulam will close soon as the number of patients admitted here has dropped to a single-digit number from the peak 3,000 patients in September. Confirming this to TOI, Srikakulam district collector J Nivas said, “We will shortly close the CCCs in our district. On Thursday, we reported only four Covid-19 patients admitted to these centres. When the number of patients reaches zero, we will go for closure.” Srikakulam is the only district in the state to have spent nearly Rs 3lakh on folk arts and artists during the pandemic. These services were widely used at CCCs in order to help Covid-19 patients cope. “We were the only district in the state to have facilitated amusement activities like plays by folk artists at CCCs,” Patrunivalasa centre in-charge Vamsi Krishna Reddy told TOI. Patients with mild symptoms and those whose oxygen levels are better than normal and those who don’t have separate isolation rooms at home are admitted at CCCs, Reddy said. Nearly 99% patients admitted here recovered well, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-care-centres-in-skulam-to-close-soon/articleshow/79552888.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 4, 2020||India||GA doesn’t field RS nominee, Sushil Modi set for a walkover||PATNA: Bihar’s former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday looked set to get a walkover in the by-election for a Rajya Sabha seat with the Grand Alliance deciding against fielding a candidate and the nomination of an Independent likely to be rejected. After having vowed not to give a walkover to Modi, the RJD-led Grand Alliance flinched from entering the contest as the odds were stacked against the opposition coalition. Modi appears all set to get elected unopposed on December 7, the last date for withdrawal of papers. According to poll officials, other than Modi an Independent candidate has filed his nomination but his papers are unlikely to stand scrutiny as he failed to enlist the support of at least 10 members of the 243-strong assembly as proposers, which is mandatory under the rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ga-doesnt-field-rs-nominee-sushil-modi-set-for-a-walkover/articleshow/79556912.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizianagaram's historic locales await tourists as footfall dips amid pandemic curbs||VISAKHAPATNAM: The historic and picturesque district of Vizianagaram, often touted to be the next tourist hotspot of Andhra Pradesh, has seen its tourism industry severely impacted by the pandemic and consequent restrictions. Tourist inflow has been quite scarce in this district which is proud of its beautiful reservoirs, picnic spots and historic locales. According to the Vizianagaram district administration, a large number of tourists used to visit temples such as Pydithalli, Govindapuram, Punyagiri and Ramateertham as well as Thatipudi reservoir and Vizianagaram Fort every year. “But Covid-19 has hit the tourism sector in Vizianagaram district hard. Tourist places in the district are yet to draw crowds,” said PVN Lakshmi Narayana, tourism and culture officer of Vizianagaram district. During winter, many tourists on their way to Araku Valley by road stop by Thatipudi reservoir and enjoy the sight of towering hills, thick green cover and chirpy migrant birds. But with the boating facility yet to be resumed, few visitors are coming to the reservoir, Narayana added. Tourist footfall in Vizianagaram district was around 58 lakh in 2019, out of which 2,000 were international tourists. However now, with very low tourist inflow so far this year, tourism dependent industries such as hotels and restaurants are struggling to survive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vzms-historic-locales-await-tourists-as-footfall-dips-amid-pandemic-curbs/articleshow/79552927.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 4, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh transport minister attack accused in police custody||VIJAYAWADA: Krishna district police took Badugu Nageswara Rao, who allegedly attempted to murder transport minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani), into two-day police custody for further investigation on Thursday. Police escorted Nageswara Rao, a mason worker from Machilipatnam Sub-Jail, in the morning amidst heavy security arrangements. Officials said that they already questioned a few TDP functionaries about their connections with the accused and would like to corroborate their statements with the accused. Also, cops are keen on unearthing the motive behind Rao’s extreme step. Cops also served a notice under 91 CrPC to former skill development minister and TDP leader Kollu Ravindra in connection with the case after YSRC leaders raised allegations against him. Ravindra previously claimed that the police were deliberately trying to link the incident to TDP and that the accused might have committed the offence because of having no work due to the YSRC sand policy. YSRC protested against his comments against questioned as to how the former minister deduced Rao’s motives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/minister-attack-accused-in-police-custody/articleshow/79552946.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Government willing to amend some provisions of new farm laws||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: After another marathon round of discussions on Thursday, representatives of government and farmers agreed to meet again on Saturday even as the Centre indicated it could consider measures such as equal taxes for APMC mandis and private markets, registration of private traders and allowing higher courts of appeal in contract farming disputes. The mood at the end of the fourth round of talks, however, was not very optimistic as the Centre’s negotiators — agriculture minister Union Narendra Singh Tomar and food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal — plainly indicated to the farm unions that repealing the three new agri laws was unlikely, while the unions continued to insist on scrapping the legislations. Yet, both sides agreed to meet again and the ball may be in the Centre’s court in spelling out just what is possible as the farmers listed several issues with regard to the reforms that aim to permit agriculturists to sell outside the APMC system and provide for contract farming and do away with stock limits under the Essential Commodities Act. The Centre also agreed to discuss not allowing anyone having a Permanent Account Number (PAN) to trade in crops out of the jurisdiction of APMCs and making registering of dealers mandatory. ‘Will consider equal tax for private, government-regulated mandis’The government does not seem ready for it (repealing laws) and agreed for some amendments. They have called us for the next round of meeting on December 5. We will decide tomorrow whether to attend the meeting on Saturday or not,” farmers’ union representatives Jagmohan Singh and Surjit Singh Phool said. Broadening the scope of the dispute resolution mechanism under contract farming provisions, which currently stop with the SDM’s court, is intended to assuage concerns over corporate houses dictating terms. The government will also consider amending penalty clause for stubble burning and changing provisions of the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill which seeks to end direct subsidies. Under the proposed law, all consumers, including farmers, will have to pay the tariff, and the subsidy will be sent to them through direct benefit transfer. “The government has no ego, it is committed to farmers. I would like to reiterate that the minimum support price (MSP) system will continue and we will assure farmers about it,” Tomar said. While the Centre is ready for a “written assurance”, farmers want a legal guarantee through a new law. “In the new Act, it has been provided that farmers can take their grievances to the SDM court. Farmers’ unions feel that the SDM’s court is a lower court and they should be allowed to go to higher courts. The government will consider this demand,” Tomar said. Referring to concerns over APMC ‘mandis’, Tomar said the government would see how they could be further strengthened. “Since the new laws lay down provision for private ‘mandis’ outside the purview of the APMC, we will also contemplate having equal tax for both private as well as government regulated mandis,” the minister said. Though Tomar appealed to farmers’ unions to end their agitation, the groups will take a decision only after the outcome of Saturday’s meeting. As the farm groups had objected to parallel talks with other organisations, the government expanded the list of unions from 35 to 40, inviting BKU (Tikait) and national alliances of farmers. The government had on Tuesday met a few groups, including BKU (Tikait), separately when the latter expressed a desire to take part in the discussions, considering it a pan-India issue. “The government has given some indications over MSP. The talks have made a little progress, but farmers want that the laws be taken back,” BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said after the meeting on Thursday. The government side explained the constitutional provisions of inter-state trade under which the central government legislated the laws. Watch Govt assures farmers on MSP, next round of talks on December 5||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-willing-to-amend-some-provisions-of-new-farm-laws/articleshow/79555606.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 4, 2020||Goa||Dissatisfied with draft feni policy, stakeholders approach excise dept||Panaji: The latest draft feni policy, and probably the final one, which has been prepared by Goa University has left industry stakeholders hugely disappointed yet again. The draft policy does not offer a road map for the industry, which is struggling to make an impact in the wider market, they say. What has come as a shocker to stakeholders, mostly members of the All Goa Cashew Feni Distillers and Bottlers Association, is that even after a series of meetings and making clear what is lacking in the policy after the first draft was submitted a year ago, the fresh draft hasn’t incorporated their suggestions. On Wednesday, the association dashed off a letter to the excise commissioner outlining its suggestions. A year ago, when a draft of feni policy prepared by Goa University was first examined by feni stakeholders, they said it lacked the spirit to take the industry forward. The draft policy talked more about the history of the feni industry and processes involved rather than pointing out the best practices that could be followed to take the industry forward. The chief objection by the association to the latest draft, which it has stated in its letter, is that agricultural practices for various species have not been considered. It only focuses on cashew nuts, which are of no interest to the cashew feni industry, the association stated in the letter. ‘Urrak’ the first distillate of cashew juice is available for a limited period. The policy has completely missed out on it even though it is bottled as a brand of cashew distillate. The letter further pointed out that a blueprint for promotion of feni, both domestically and overseas, finds no mention vis-a-vis practices that presently limit market access for cashew feni. Excise commissioner Shashank Mani Tripathi said that he has heard the association’s views and that they are open to including the suggestions put forward by them. A joint meeting of association members, Goa University research team and the excise commissioner was held two days ago. “The association has sent a mail about its suggestions. Minor changes need to be done in the policy and after that it will be sent for government approval,” the excise commissioner said. The association, however, is not willing to accept that the changes it has suggested are minor. Founding president of the association Mac Vaz said, “The draft feni policy appears like an academic. paper without any vision.” The draft policy, Vaz said, would have had more teeth and a vision if the task was assigned to someone like marketing guru Prahlad Kakkar, who understands Goa and has a track record of catapulting brands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dissatisfied-with-draft-feni-policy-stakeholders-approach-excise-dept/articleshow/79554320.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 4, 2020||Goa||‘Wrong to dump effluents in borewells, treat it responsibly’||Panaji: Industrial units that generate pollutants should treat the waste responsibly instead of dumping the effluents in borewells and open pits as has been found in Cuncolim industrial estate, said Goa State Industries Association president Damodar Kochkar on Thursday. Kochkar said he was shocked to hear that fish meal plants and fish processing units at Cuncolim were discharging waste into illegal borewells. He said that the fish processing plants should avail of a central scheme to set up a common effluent treatment plant (ETP) or pool their own resources to set up such a plant. “It is their responsibility and they are supposed to take care of it. They could avail of a central government scheme and set up a common treatment plant,” said Kochkar. “It is very grave thing to connect to the borewell because it is very difficult to reverse it. They should find a solution to a problem that they have created.” Goa State Pollution Control Board has identified over 20 illegal borewells at the Cuncolim Industrial Estate where effluents were being discharged by fish meal plants. “These four industrial units can come together and set up a common treatment plant. It has to be worked out as a proposal where they can see if the water can be reused and the remaining fish waste can be treated as manure or fertiliser,” said Kochkar. Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias wants all the polluting units in the Cuncolim Industrial Estate to be shut down immediately, but Kochkar disagreed. “Shutting down is not the solution. Pharma is doing their own effluent treatment, so why can’t these units do the same? A common effluent treatment plant can be set up,” said Kochkar. The recently released Export Strategy of Goa report said that a common effluent treatment plant could benefit companies. Prepared by the Federation of Indian Exports Organisation and notified by the directorate of industries, trade and commerce, the report said that running an ETP is expensive and companies could benefit from a common ETP. “In view of scattered nature of industry, having a common ETP for whole of Goa seems difficult, but, as a facilitation, setting up a common ETP in few of the industrial estates may be examined,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wrong-to-dump-effluents-in-borewells-treat-it-responsibly/articleshow/79554410.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Goa||Parrikar was against double tracking: AAP||Panaji: AAP has ridiculed chief minister Pramod Sawant on the double tracking saying that a video of his predecessor, and mentor Manohar Parrikar, which has gone viral, says it all. Referring to Sawant’s latest statement that Parrikar had never objected to double tracking, AAP Goa convener Rahul Mhambre said that the people cannot be fooled all the time. He said Parrikar had clearly stated that Goa did not require double tracking, which he said was promoted by Mormugao Port Trust for its own benefit. Going against what Parrikar had said, Sawant asserted that Parrikar had never objected to double tracking of the railway track, APP said. Parrikar clearly said that the double tracking was for coal, AAP added. Mhambre pointed out to Sawant that Parrikar had also advised people by saying “kanant tell ghalinaka” (do not tell lies) and asked the chief minister to at least adhere to this advice from Parrikar whose “all other grooming he has surrendered and abandoned”. AAP said that the government must stop telling lies and fooling the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikar-was-against-double-tracking-aap/articleshow/79554419.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Bail pleas of 3 rejected in fake currency case||Panaji: A Panaji court has dismissed bail applications of three men who used counterfeit currency to buy ice cream at parlours in Caranzalem, Panaji and Porvorim. The court found that the accused were residing in an apartment along with others where sheets of printed currency notes were found. Cello tape, a cutter and a steel ruler said to have been used for the purpose of counterfeiting were found in a bag. “This will indicate that some part of the process of counterfeiting was carried out in the said apartment. This would be punishable under Section 489-A of the Indian Penal Code which is also a very serious offence which calls for a punishment of imprisonment for life or imprisonment which may extend to ten years,” the court stated. The court also observed that the counterfeit notes were found in their possession when they were apprehended and taken to the police station, with no explanation forthcoming. The accused were traced on the basis of CCTV footage which showed that a vehicle with PB registration was used by them. They purchased ice creams by giving five counterfeit currency notes of Rs 100 each at parlours. The court noted that the accused put counterfeit currency into circulation in a very simple manner by purchasing daily commodities . “The business of circulation of counterfeit currency notes goes on undetected, since the currency notes are being supplied to innocent unsuspecting people..This will surely adversely affect the economy of the entire nation, thus making the offence serious in nature and disentitling those involved to the grant of bail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-pleas-of-3-rejected-in-fake-currency-case/articleshow/79554451.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Vadodara||Burglary attempt foiled as locals nab, beat up thief||Vadodara: A burglary attempt near Bavchavad locality in Panigate was foiled after the owner of the house and his neighbours nabbed one of the three burglars and handed him over to cops. The owner of the house, Lala Kahar told police that when he and family members returned from Himmatnagar in the early hours of Thursday, his wife Kamini saw a man and shouted for help. Kahar, who is in the fishing business, tried to nab the man, but he hit him and fled. When they went inside the house, all valuables were scattered and Rs 1.5 lakh cash from the safe was missing. When Kahar went to check the storage room inside the kitchen, he noticed another thief hiding behind a large storage box. On seeing the thief, who was later identified as Ibrahim alias ATM Taherwala, Kahar shouted for help hearing which, his neighbours rushed to his house. On frisking Taherwala, they found the missing cash from his pockets. One of them called the police control room, but until the PCR van arrived, they beat him up mercilessly. Police arrested Taherwala and booked him and his accomplices Mohammed Shafi Kagdi and Kalka Prasad Kahar for burglary. Taherwala told cops that he and Kagdi were searching for valuables and cash around the house while Kalka Prasad was asked to wait on the terrace and keep a watch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglary-attempt-foiled-as-locals-nab-beat-up-thief/articleshow/79552355.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CISCE seeks partial reopening of schools||NEW DELHI: Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) has written to chief ministers of all the states and heads of Union territories to allow schools to reopen partially, especially for students of classes X and XII, from January 4. “With the students physically attending school, the time will be utilised for practicals, project work, SUPW and for clearing doubts. This should be extremely beneficial for the students, who will now get time to interact directly with the teachers,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief secretary and executive, CISCE. Along with the chief ministers, the board has also written to the Election Commission seeking dates of polls due in the states in April-May 2021. “This will enable us to finalise the schedule for Class X and XII examinations and ensure there was no clash of days, interruption of examinations or any inconvenience, which may affect the candidates,” said Arathoon. Once the permission is granted, the board will ask the schools to follow the directives of the state government on Covid-19 and to comply with safety guidelines and standard operating procedures of the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cisce-seeks-partial-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/79556955.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Is PFI the new SIMI? ED raids offices, netas across 9 states||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday conducted searches across the country on offices of the Popular Front of India (PFI) amid growing suspicion that the radical outfit could be a rebadged version of the outlawed Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The ED conducted searches across nine states — Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Bihar, UP, West Bengal, Delhi and Rajasthan — on offices and people associated with PFI in a money laundering case registered in 2018. Signficantly, these states also happened to be the areas where SIMI once had a strong presence before it was banned in 2001. In Kerala, raids were carried out at the houses of PFI chairman O M A Salam and national secretary Nasarudeen Elamaram in Malappuram, national executive committee member P Koya in Kozhikode, national vicechairman E M Abdurehman in Ernakulam and former state president Karamana Ashraf Moulavi in Thiruvananthapuram. Read AlsoED carries out countrywide raids against PFI, its chairman in money laundering caseNEW DELHI: The ED on Thursday raided at least 26 premises in nine states linked to the Popular Front of India (PFI) including those of its chairman OM Abdul Salam and Kerala state chief Nasarudheen Elamarom as part of a money laundering probe, official sources said. The searches are being conductedLaunched from Kerala in 2006, PFI is now headquartered in Shahin Bagh in the national capital. Switch to a different name is used as camouflage by radical outfits globally to escape actions and carry on with their activities. While the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is already probing PFI and its functionaries for their alleged involvement in radicalising youths and in connection with violence, ED has launched a parallel probe against the outfit and its office-bearers. During its investigation over the last two years, ED has found that PFI received funds in its bank accounts to the tune of Rs 120 crore, out of which Rs 55 crore came in cash, the source of which is still unidentified and is being investigated. Both NIA and the ED have found alleged involvement PFI members in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in Delhi early this year and the subsequent riots. Read AlsoED raids PFI leaders' houses in KeralaEnforcement Directorate (ED) officials are conducting raids at the residences of the leaders of the Popular Front of India (PFI) at various places in Kerala.In February, the agency had summoned top functionaries of the outfit at its Delhi headquarters for questioning related to suspect transactions. The functionaries questioned by the agency included Parvez Ahmed, PFI’s Delhi unit president, national secretary Anis Ahmad, Delhi secretary Shahid Abookacker, KP Jaseer, accountant at the all-India headquarters, Remiz Muhammed, trustee of its Rehab India Foundation, Abdul Muqeet Afsel Chandrankandy, secretary of RIF. Jaseer has been questioned multiple times during which he had given some specific leads about cash withdrawals and the purpose for which the funds were used.ED sources said more than 90 withdrawals were done from a specific bank account between December 12 and 21 last year, when protests against the CAA swept UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/is-pfi-the-new-simi-ed-raids-offices-netas-across-9-states/articleshow/79556959.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Complainant ‘bogus’, green authority told||Panaji: Following a complaint of illegal construction in the Chapora in violation of CRZ norms, the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has been told that the name of the complainant is ‘bogus’. The person against whom the accusations were made has told the GCZMA that there is no person by the name ‘Chandru Naik’, as given in the complaint, residing in Siolim. The GCZMA has nevertheless decided to verify the documents related to the case. A year ago, GCZMA received a complaint from ‘Chandru Naik’ of Oxel, Siolim, alleging that illegal construction has been carried out by another Siolim resident ‘within two meters from River Chapora’. In June this year, a showcause was issued to the alleged violator, who filed his reply, while also remaining present for the GCZMA proceedings. However, the complainant failed to turn up for the hearing. “The respondent submitted that the complaint is filed by a bogus person,” the GCZMA noted. The alleged violator has claimed that his structure has been constructed beyond 100m from the high tide line of the Chapora. He also told GCZMA that an expert committee member of the authority had, in a report, stated that the property in question in Siolim does not attract the provisions of CRZ Notification, 2011. “Based on this, the land survey department has also demarcated the property and has given a report that the property is beyond 100m of the HTL,” the alleged violator told the GCZMA. He claimed that he has obtained all the relevant approvals from the authorities concerned and that construction had started until the showcause notice cum stop work order by the GCZMA . The alleged violator said this notice to him was issued ‘based on a frivolous non-existing complainant’. While he has asked for the showcause to be set aside, the GCZMA has stated that the genuineness of the documents submitted by the alleged violator needs to be verified .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/complainant-bogus-green-authority-told/articleshow/79554481.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Goa||Designate Old Goa as heritage zone: GFP||Panaji: Stating that the party will not rest till Old Goa is designated as a heritage zone, Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai said they will constitute a committee of experts comprising archaeologists, conservationists and others to prepare a plan to preserve Old Goa. “Our party will see to it that all those viewing this heritage site as prime real estate will not be allowed to find and exploit any loopholes that could be deliberately left by this government and its agents,” said Sardesai. Sardesai said that party vice president Renuka da Silva will be the convener of the expert committee. The former town and country planning minister said that citizens need to remain vigilant. “We have to remain vigilant because this government cannot be trusted. Goa Forward Party has decided to take the initiative in this matter and to not rest till Old Goa is declared a heritage zone,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/designate-old-goa-as-heritage-zone-gfp/articleshow/79554506.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 4, 2020||Goa||Neglect a major factor in deaths of elderly Covid patients: GMC audit||Panaji: Three months ago, a 70-year-old man living in a joint family of 50-odd members at Bhatulem, Panaji, succumbed to Covid-19. He was declared ‘brought dead’ to the hospital. How could none of his family members have noticed him struggling to live? The incident appears to be a clear case of neglect by the family, because the senior citizen would have probably survived had he received timely medical help. In fact, if this pandemic has made individuals with comorbidities vulnerable, it has also endangered elderly people who do not have adequate family support. Of the Covid fatalities reported between September and November, the highest number has been of people in the age group of 60-70 years, followed by those in the 70-80 years bracket. During this period, as many as 136 people between 60 and 70 years of age succumbed to the virus while 101 victims were 70-80 years old. However, not all these deaths can be classified as cases of neglect. An audit of Covid-linked deaths by the Goa Medical College (GMC) has found that in multiple cases involving senior citizens, families neglected them after they first fell sick and treatment was sought only after their conditions had worsened. “It becomes too late by then. The best intensive care unit (ICU) facilities in the world will not be able to save them. Disregard for the aged in families have been brought to the fore by the virus,” said Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean and in-charge of Covid hospitals in the state. On June 22, Goa reported its first Covid death when an 85-year-old man from Morlem village in Sattari taluka succumbed to the virus. The man was left in the care of his daughter who was mentally unsound, after other family members tested positive and shifted to a Covid care centre. He was bedridden for some time and was malnourished at the time of his death. Panch member of Morlem panchayat Vidya Sawant, had confirmed to TOI then that it was possible that he had not been cared for properly. Bandekar said they have received such cases from all sections of society, including from affluent families, wherein elderly people are left to fend for themselves and are considered as liabilities. “Patients have been brought to us when oxygen saturation levels dropped to 50 and when it is so difficult to treat them. Patients left undiagnosed and untreated would have coughed for at least four to five days prior to their condition taking a turn for the worse,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/neglect-a-major-factor-in-deaths-of-elderly-covid-patients-gmc-audit/articleshow/79554531.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 4, 2020||Goa||Panel for L-Day celebration meets today||Panaji: Just days after cancelling an all-party meeting to discuss year-long programmes to commemorate the 60th year of liberation of Goa, the state government plans to try again by scheduling a meeting on Friday. The last meeting was postponed by the state government at the last minute after the opposition announced that they would boycott it. The government has constituted a state-level organising committee to screen proposals, while a monitoring committee would oversee the implementation of the proposals and activities. The information and publicity department has been designated as the nodal department to undertake all activities of the celebrations. “I have already written a letter to the chief minister asking him to use the Rs100 crore for the needy and for economic revival. I just got the information that the meeting is convened, but I don’t know if I will attend,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panel-for-l-day-celebration-meets-today/articleshow/79554579.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Goa||Now, Soliem locals want Valpoi PI reinstated, allege assault by Honda duo||Valpoi: In a turn of events in the Honda assault case, a group of villagers from Soliem in Sattari on Thursday marched to the Honda police outpost demanding that Valpoi PI Sagar Ekoskar be reinstated. Ekoskar was sent on leave on Wednesday after hundreds of Honda locals surrounded the police outpost claiming that the PI had assaulted panch member Suresh Madkar and resident Sagar Naik. The villagers of Soliem, however, said on Thursday that Madkar and Naik were at fault. They said the duo had assaulted a resident of Soliem who was mining truck driver. Praising Ekoskar, they said he had done “a very good job by assaulting such ill-mannered persons as Madkar and Naik”. As Madkar did not come to the Honda police outpost to tender an apology to Soliem villagers, hundreds of locals rushed to his house and restaurant in Honda. Sattari mamlatdar Dasharath Gawas intervened in the matter and requested the villagers to disperse from the site by assuring them that he would look into the matter. Dattaram Gawade, a truck driver who was allegedly assaulted by Madkar and Naik, said that on Wednesday morning, Madkar and Naik had stopped the truck he was driving. “They pulled me out of the truck and assaulted me. They threw away my licence and keys,” Gawade said. He claimed that Madkar and Naik said the former had not covered his truck with tarpaulin and furnished that as the reason for the assault.” DySP Gurudas Gawade said that police patrolling areas where ore-laden trucks ply would henceforth ensure that norms for ore transportation are not violated. While the Soliem villagers further demanded immediate action against Madkar and Naik, the DySP told the protesters that they would have to give a written memorandum stating their demands so that it can be sent to his superiors. A strong posse of police personnel was also deployed at Honda on Thursday to avoid any law and order situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/now-soliem-locals-want-valpoi-pi-reinstated-allege-assault-by-honda-duo/articleshow/79554654.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Pollution victims can move DMs for damages: NGT||BHOPAL: The NGT principal bench in New Delhi has said that a victim of air pollution can seek compensation from a district magistrate. The bench passed this order in response to three petitions filed by Delhi residents Shobhit Shukla and Chirag Jain, and Dr P G Najpande of Jabalpur in MP. The petitioners pointed out that despite an NGT ban on firecrackers during Diwali in NCR and cities where AQI is ‘poor’ or ‘worse’, people burst crackers, which not only worsened air quality but also “aggravated the coronavirus pandemic”. A four-judge NGT bench, headed by its chairman Justice Adarsh Kumar Goyal, ruled that any victim of pollution can approach a district magistrate for compensation by providing “evidence of individual damage and the person responsible for it”. The DM will ensure that banned firecrackers aren’t sold, the tribunal said, adding that the DM will “recover compensation from the violators” with or without a complaint. ‘Sutli bomb’, for instance, is among the banned crackers but the staccato bangs in Bhopal this Diwali showed its use was rampant. The tribunal has banned sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during the Covid-19 pandemic in NCR and other cities with poor ambient air quality. In cities/ towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or better, only green crackers are allowed for no more than two hours and only for specific festivals or occasions that are permitted by states. It has allowed green crackers in these areas between 11.50pm and 12.30am on Xmas and New Year‘s Eve. Other than specified festivals, DMs’ prior permission is mandatory for fireworks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pollution-victims-can-move-dms-for-damages-ngt/articleshow/79556997.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 4, 2020||Goa||Pissurlem farmers seek dismissal of PI Ekoskar, allege arrogant behaviour||Valpoi: Pissurlem Farmers’ Association (PFA) condemned the act of Valpoi police inspector Sagar Ekoskar assaulting panch member Suresh Madkar and Honda resident Sagar Naik. Members claimed that Ekoskar has been behaving arrogantly with Sattari locals since last several months. President of the association Hanumant Parab alleged before mediapersons on Thursday that Ekoskar was supporting illegal activities in Sattari. “Gambling, illegal stone quarrying, mining ore transportation without following norms have increased considerably in the taluka,” Parab said.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pissurlem-farmers-seek-dismissal-of-pi-ekoskar-allege-arrogant-behaviour/articleshow/79554694.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||Board prep: Allow schools to reopen for X, XII students, CISCE tells CMs||MUMBAI: The Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) has written to chief ministers of all states and union territories to allow schools to reopen partially from January 4, 2021 for classes X and XII so that students get time for practicals and to clear doubts. "Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, schools have been closed from March till date. However, despite the closure, schools continue their teaching and learning process in online/offline blended mode for completion of syllabus. For the final run-up, with the students physically attending school, the time will be utilised for practical work, project work and for clearing doubts. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will get the time to interact directly with their teachers," Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of CISCE, said in a release. He has assured that if allowed to reopen, schools will be asked to follow the directives of the state governments regarding Covid-19 and conform to the standard operating procedures and safety guidelines. The board has also requested the chief election commissioner of India to share dates of any elections that may be due in April and May 2021. "This will enable CISCE to finalise the schedules for ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) exams and to ensure there is no clash of dates, interruption of examination or inconvenience that may be faced by the candidates taking these exams," said Arathoon. While Maharashtra has allowed reopening of physical classes for grades IX to XII, several urban local bodies have extended the shutdown to at least December 31 owing to the high number of Covid-19 cases. Principals said parents too weren't willing to send students yet. "When the state announced its plan to allow reopening, we reached out to parents as their consent is mandatory. However, most said they would not find it safe to send their children. Hence, we have planned a week-long schedule for the practicals, but we will call students only when it is safe," said an ICSE school principal. This year, the pending exams -six for ICSE and eight for ISC -had to be cancelled after parents moved court. The exams couldn't be conducted owing to the pandemic. The students were marked on the basis of the exams they had appeared for before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/board-prep-allow-schools-to-reopen-for-x-xii-students-cisce-tells-cms/articleshow/79557012.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra directs high-resolution CT scan centres to share contact details of Covid cases||MUMBAI: The state has finally woken up to the surreptitious practice of using the HRCT scan for Covid-19 diagnosis by skipping the gold standard RT-PCR test altogether. Worried that scores of such cases were going under the radar, the state issued an order on Wednesday asking diagnostic centres and hospitals to share the contact details of suspected or confirmed Covid cases with local authorities. The BMC has taken the order a step ahead and put the onus on such centres to pursue patients to get an RT-PCR done. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas stated in the order that some hospitals were using the high-resolution computerized tomography (HRCT) test to diagnose Covid-19 and initiating treatment based on the scan findings without getting the confirmatory RT-PCR or antigen tests done. He said in the absence of an RT-PCR report, the local authorities stay in the dark about these cases and cannot carry out contact tracing and other infection-control measures. Emphasising that RT-PCR or rapid antigen tests were the only approved methods for a confirmed Covid diagnosis, Dr Vyas said skipping these tests could increase chances of infection spread in the community. The order states the hospital or centre will have to share the name, contact number and address of the patient suspected or diagnosed with HRCT and share these with a cell that local administrations have been asked to set up. As soon as any facility gets a Covid diagnosis through HRCT, it will be mandatory for the patient to undergo an RT-PCR test within 24 hours, the order added. The local authorities will also have to spring into action and check that RT-PCR is done and initiate contact tracing. For Mumbai, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said patients who are being picked up using HRCT are not on the BMC's tracking list. "Hence, we cannot do contact tracing or monitor their health condition," he said, adding the diagnostic centres can prescribe RT-PCR to such patients. While doctors have welcomed the move, they say it has come a tad too late. "HRCT was a rage in April and May when RT-PCR was not too accessible. Several centres were doing up to 40 scans a day and finding 30 positive reports," said Dr Bhavin Jankharia, radiologist and former president of Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA). It's not the case any longer as RT-PCR is widely available, he said. Dr Jankharia said his centre now carries out five scans in a day and finds one positive case in two days. Physician Dr Hemant Thacker said HRCT scans help pick up classic ground glass presentations seen in Covid. "However, not all ground glass appearance on CT scan is Covid, and one has to correlate it with the clinical picture," he said. He called the state decision a good move in terms of "epidemiology". Incidentally, Maharashtra was also one of the first states to cap HRCT rates because of rampant profiteering. Radiologist Dr Jignesh Thakker said a positive RT-PCR report initiates a chain of events starting from local authorities coming home to quarantining a floor, which many try to avoid by getting an HRCT. Much before the state notification, Thane authorities had introduced a rule to inform them about HRCT cases through WhatsApp, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-directs-high-res-ct-scan-centres-to-share-contact-details-of-covid-cases/articleshow/79557013.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 4, 2020||India||Dalit beaten up over unbuttoned shirt, surname||AHMEDABAD: A man belonging to a scheduled caste (SC) was on Tuesday beaten up by an upper caste man and his aides, allegedly for keeping his shirt unbuttoned and using a surname of the Kshatriya or Darbar community. In the FIR, Bharat Jadhavsaid accused Narendra Rajput questioned him why he had not buttoned up his shirt properly. Even after he did, Rajput asked him his surname. He asked Jadhav why he was using a surname of the Darbar community despite being a Dalit. After work, as Jadhav exited the factory gates, Rajput and his aides waylaid him and beat him up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dalit-beaten-up-over-unbuttoned-shirt-surname/articleshow/79557016.cms||Ashish Chauhan
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Racing car hits two in Delhi's Civil Lines, 48-year-old woman dies||NEW DELHI: A 48-year-old woman was killed after a racing car hit her when she was crossing the road in north Delhi's Civil Lines on Tuesday morning. In the collision, the woman was thrown into the air and died from her injuries. Police have arrested the driver, a BTech graduate who was returning from a wedding. Another man who was also crossing the road at the same time was also hit by the car, but survived the accident. The accused who was arrested from the spot was identified as Ashish Maheshwari, a 26-year-old engineering graduate, who is preparing for competitive examinations. Maheshwari was at the steering wheel of the car at the time of accident. His brother was in the car with him, both having gone to a wedding and on their way home. According to police, the accident took place when Maheshwari could not stop the car in time after he saw Bala, a private school employee who lives in Chandrawal Nagar in Civil Lines, crossing the road. He also unable to avoid hitting Vikas, a resident of Majnu Ka Tila. The latter, however, suffered only minor injuries to his head and was discharged from the hospital on Thursday. Witnesses told police that the car, a Tata Tiago, hit the two and Bala was hurled at least 10 feet into the air while Vikas was thrown to the side. Local residents and people on the street rushed to help the two victims. When the accident caused a traffic jam, there was no way for Maheswari to drive away with his car and was caught by the crowd and the matter reported to police. A police team reached the accident site and sent both the victim to hospital, where Bala was declared dead and Vikas admitted for treatment. The woman's family was informed and her body sent for a postmortem examination. A police officer disclosed that Maheshwari was booked for rash driving and causing death due to negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/racing-car-hits-two-in-delhis-civil-lines-48-year-old-woman-dies/articleshow/79557009.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||At 1.6 billion doses, India No. 1 in deals for Covid vaccine: Study||BENGALURU: As of November 30, India was leading the world in the number of "confirmed Covid-19 vaccine doses" for which orders have been placed, having "concluded contracts to get 1.6 billion doses". The latest global vaccine procurement analysis by Duke University, which has been tracking advanced commitments between countries and vaccine developers, put the European Union second and the US third. The EU will get 1.58 billion doses and the US will get over a billion doses, provided all the vaccine candidates they have struck deals to buy prove efficient in trials and are certified for use.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had said in November that India was in talks with vaccine makers to get up to 500 million doses by July-August 2021. An analysis by Duke University’s "Launch and Scale Speedometer", which is updated every two weeks, shows India has made deals for three global vaccine candidates upon them being ready and certified for use, while the EU and the US have struck deals with six vaccine developers. Canada and the UK have each struck deals for over 350 million doses of vaccines each from seven developers. The analysis doesn’t include China and Russia, both of which have their own vaccine programmes for citizens. India will be getting 500 million doses of the Oxford University vaccine from AstraZeneca, one billion from the US company Novavax Inc and 100 million doses from Russia’s Gamaleya Research Institute, which has developed Sputnik-V. While Pune-based Serum India of Institute will manufacture the Oxford vaccine, Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has tied up for trials of Sputnik-V in India. Besides these, a domestic vaccine candidate by Bharat Biotech entered Phase 3 trials on Wednesday. "Given that all candidates showing promise need two doses of vaccination, theoretically India would need 2.6 billion doses to cover its population. But it isn’t practical to inoculate the whole country and, also, it isn’t required as once we cover over 60% of the population, we’ll see the disease being controlled," said Dr V Ravi, member of the expert committee on the Covid vaccine. "So, I think commitments of these many doses should suffice, and we also have some domestic candidates, like the one from Bharat Biotech."  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); High-income countries’ sharePointing out that nearly 200 Covid-19 vaccine candidates are moving forward through the development and clinical trial processes, and more than 10 candidates are already in Phase 3 large-scale trials, Duke researchers said the number of advance market commitments made by countries and multilateral partnerships eager to reserve vaccine supply is unprecedented. On Wednesday, the UK became the first country to approve a Covid vaccine, from Pfizer. "High-income countries currently hold a confirmed 3.8 billion doses, upper-middle-income countries hold 829 million doses, and lower-middle-income countries hold more than 1.7 billion doses. Many high-income countries have hedged their bets by advance purchasing enough doses to vaccinate their population several times over," the analysis reads. Coronavirus in India: Live updatesAlso, data shows that the EU and the US, among others, could add more doses to their account, with millions of doses still categorised under "potential procurement", indicating advanced levels of negotiations. Read AlsoVaccine yet to come but VIP jostling startsPune: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has said that no politician or influential person would be entertained as a priority recipient to get the first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine. The health minister’s comment comes in the wake of complaints from some bureaucrats about pressure from some"Since none of these candidates are approved, some of the purchased vaccine candidates may prove to be unsuccessful. Countries that can afford too are purchasing a portfolio of vaccines in the hope that one or more will get through the regulatory process," the analysis says. Researchers at Duke have so far not been able to find evidence of any direct deals made by low-income countries, suggesting that low-income countries will be entirely reliant on the 20% population coverage from COVAX, the global collaboration for equitable access to vaccines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-1-6-billion-doses-india-no-1-in-deals-for-covid-vaccine-study/articleshow/79555922.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 4, 2020||India||SC grants bail to ex-DGP Saini in murder case||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a case of alleged abduction and murder of a man, the FIR for which was lodged 29 years after the alleged commission of the crime in 1991. An SC bench said in the event of Punjab police arresting Saini, he would be released on bail on furnishing a personal bail bond of Rs 1 lakh and two sureties of the like amount. A Mohali court and Punjab and Haryana HC had rejected Saini’s plea for anticipatory bail. Saini had challenged the HC order relating to alleged abduction of junior engineer with Punjab government Balwant Singh Multani and an attempt to murder bid on Saini, who was SSP, Chandigarh then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-grants-bail-to-ex-dgp-saini-in-murder-case/articleshow/79557020.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||Counsel under Pakistan pressure, overstepping brief: MEA||NEW DELHI: Indian high commission counsel Shahnawaz Noon is acting under pressure from the Pakistani establishment, the government alleged on Thursday as it slammed Islamabad for linking Kulbhushan Jadhav’s case with that of another Indian prisoner Mohammed Ismail. While representing Ismail, who remains in jail despite having completed his sentence, Noon had told the Islamabad high court that India’s acting high commissioner Gaurav Ahluwalia wanted to explain India’s stand over appointment of a lawyer for Jadhav who is facing death sentence. Noon, however, exceeded his brief by talking about Jadhav as he had been chosen to represent only Ismail and had been told by the Indian mission that he represented neither Jadhav nor the Indian government. The MEA said Noon had made the remark without any authorisation and appeared to have acted under pressure from the Pakistani establishment. The Pakistan attorney general raised the issue of Jadhav despite the two cases not being related in any way, said the government. India said Noon had misrepresented the position of the high commission. Indian mission has written to Noon reiterating that he has no authority to represent Jadhav and has no basis to suggest that Ahluwalia would appear in the court. India has refused to participate in Pakistan’s review of Jadhav’s death sentence saying that Islamabad has failed to respond on the core issues, including provision of all documents and an unimpeded, unhindered and unconditional consular access for Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/counsel-under-pakistan-pressure-overstepping-brief-mea/articleshow/79557037.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Kept away from girlfriend, 17-year-old kills her brother, grandma||NAGPUR: A 17-year-old boy allegedly stabbed Laxmi Dhurve, 60, and her 10-year-old grandson Yash to death at their residence at Hazaripahad on Thursday. The double murder is a fallout of the Dhurve family’s objection to the “friendship” between the boy and 20-year-old granddaughter of the deceased woman, said police. Following a complaint from the victims’ family, Gittikhadan police have registered a murder case against the minor and launched a search for him. The family had shifted the young woman to her maternal uncle’s place at Surendra Nagar some time back after learning about her friendship with the minor who was from a different community. The boy had allegedly shown anti-social traits and kept a knife with him, committed thefts and so on. Terming it a case of ‘Love jihad’, the International Hindu Parishad/Rashtriya Bajrang Dal, Nagpur Mahanagar, alleged that the minor has eloped with the young woman. The organization has called a meeting at Gittikhadan Square at 12 noon on Friday to protest against the incident. It is learnt, there had been repeated altercations between the minor and the family of the deceased since last few months. The minor had allegedly threatened the Dhurves of dire consequences two months ago. The matter was not reported to police. The minor, a resident of Gandhibagh, had befriended the young woman, a drop out after Std XII, around a year ago through another friend on social media. It is learnt, the 20-year-old woman maintained an on-off relationship with the boy following opposition from her family. The minor allegedly attacked the elderly woman and her grandson when there was no one else at the house. Laxmi was found murdered on the chair with numerous stab injuries on the body by her daughter-in-law Sonali after she returned from work at 2pm. Shocked on seeing her mother-in-law’s body drenched in blood, Sonali frenetically started searching for her son Yash who was not found in any of the rooms and in the neighbourhood. “I thought he (daughter’s friend) must have kidnapped my son whose body was later found inside the bathroom with blood all over him,” said a distraught Sonali. She alerted her husband Mohan and raised an alarm in the neighbourhood. A source in the family said the minor would threaten the young woman if she avoided or ignored him. “The minor used to call up her family members and threatened them if she refused to meet him. He often thrashed her but she was unable to break off with him for unspecified reasons,” said a family member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-stabs-gfs-grandmother-brother-to-death/articleshow/79668280.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||I trust all my ministers, don’t need to tap any phones: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: The principals in the ruling coalition in Maharashtra – Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar and Balasaheb Thorat – along with Ajit Pawar put up a united front at a public gathering on Thursday to mark the first anniversary of their tenure. Shiv Sena president and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the tri-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) would face all challenges in the same way that it tackled the natural calamities besieging the state. The shadow of a recently-launched Enforcement Directorate probe against its MLA Pratap Sarnaik and dire warnings from BJP leaders that MVA would not last beyond months set the tone for a combative CM to react. Thackeray, without naming BJP, said his government never shied away from confrontation. “This government has the people’s support. They have accepted us as we are doing good work. I trust my ministers, there is no need for me to tap phones of colleagues. All are doing really good work. The government is firm,” Thackeray said. His 12-minute address was marked by a lighter moment when he began thanking cabinet colleagues for “support” despite his “inexperience” in administrative work. He followed by saying he did speak to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi over the phone on occasions. Recalling a conversation, he said, “she asked if her people (Congress ministers) are creating trouble, to which I said they are cooperating more than NCP ministers.” The comment evoked laughter on the dais and off it Thackeray unveiled a booklet of his government's achievements titled ‘Unstoppable Maharashtra’ at the programme held at the Sahyadri guest house at Malabar Hill. Thackeray said in the initial days his government was described as a threewheeler (tri-party), but the government had a fourth wheel which was the people’s faith. NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the people of the state would not forget the work done for them, and the MVA government would not only complete its five-year term but stay on for the next 25 years. He said the MVA regime has taken pro-people and pro-farmer decisions all along. Referring to the current farmers’ agitation in Delhi over the last few days, Pawar said, “The major achievement of the Thackeray government is that farmers have not come out on the road to protest in the last one year.” Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said there would be no threat to the government as long as Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and Uddhav Thackeray, who have resolved to jointly run it, are together. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said MVA is firm on its Common Minimum Programme and has worked effectively amidst Covid-19 pandemic and provided relief to those hit by cyclone and heavy rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-trust-all-my-ministers-dont-need-to-tap-any-phones-maharashtra-cm/articleshow/79557043.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 4, 2020||India||India slams Pak’s Kartarpur move in UN||NEW DELHI: India has hit out against Pakistan for transferring the Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara management and violating an UN General Assembly resolution, saying its move goes against Sikh religion. “Pakistan has violated the earlier resolution on Culture of Peace passed last year by this assembly. Last month, Pakistan arbitrarily transferred the management of Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara, from Sikh Community body to the administrative control of a non-Sikh body,” First Secretary in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Ashish Sharma said in the UNGA on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-slams-paks-kartarpur-move-in-un/articleshow/79557046.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two NCB officers suspended for ‘lapses’ in handling cases||MUMBAI: Two officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau have been suspended for their alleged lapses in handling of court proceedings in two drug cases involving actress Deepika Padukone’s manager Karishma Prakash and TV comedian Bharati Singh and her husband Harsh Limbhaiyaa. The NCB has been investigating a series of cases involving celebrities and drug peddlers. This probe was triggered by an investigation into a drug angle pertaining to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide on June 14. In Bharati Singh’s case, the metropolitan magistrate court on November 23 granted the couple bail considering that the quantity of drugs involved was small and the offence attracted a maximum of up to one year in jail. The court, while granting bail to the couple, had observed that the investigating officer as well as public prosecutor Atul Sarpande were both not present in the court to file their replies. The NCB had recovered 86.5 grams of ganja from the Singh and her husband. In the Karishma Prakash case, the officer’s conduct in meddling in certain issues between two officers of the court was “unbecoming of an officer,’’ said a source. The special NDPS court is hearing Karishma Prkash’s anticipatory bail plea for the past one month. The NCB had carried out a search of her house and had found 1.7 grams of hashish. Sources said that the two officers who have been suspended have not indulged in any corruption in either of the cases, but there is dereliction of duty. Referring to the Bharati Singh case, a source said, “The staff of public prosecutor had conveyed to the court staff that he was tied up with an urgent case in Thane and hence suggested that the court keep the matter for hearing the next day.” Meanwhile, an officer prepared a reply and reached the court by 2.30 pm, but the court had already passed the bail order. The NCB, subsequently on November 26, made three applications, for revocation of bail order, cancellation of bail order and revision against bail order in the special NDPS court. The next date of hearing is December 9. In the case of Karishma Prakash, a source said that the officer ought not to have interfered in settling differences between two officers of the court. “Everyone knows they dislike each other,” the source said. “The NCB has been asked not to take coercive action against Karishma Prakash. We hope that at the next date of hearing, the court decides the matter,’’ an official said. The NCB claimed it has a strong case against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-two-ncb-officers-suspended-for-lapses-in-handling-cases/articleshow/79557030.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Obstacle course in national chaos region||NEW DELHI: Diversions, barricades and blockades have thrown traffic between Delhi and the NCR cities, particularly Sonipat, Noida and Ghaziabad, out of gear. Building up over the past week at various border points, disruptions due to the farmer agitation hit traffic for the first time on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway on Thursday when protesters at UP Gate blocked the Ghaziabad-Delhi lanes, forcing police to divert traffic. It led to daylong traffic snarls. Later in the evening, one lane was reopened briefly and then closed again. The Noida-Delhi route via Chilla also remains off bounds, increasing journey time for daily commuters between the two cities not just via the Mayur Vihar route but also DND because of additional traffic pressure at the Flyway. In the capital, most traffic disruptions are in east and outer Delhi, where the main protest points – Singhu, Tikri, Gazipur and Chilla – are located. On Thursday, Delhi Traffic Police took to Twitter and posted the names of roads that are shut and routes that can be taken. In Gurgaon, whose borders with Delhi have not seen any gathering of protesters so far, police are planning to set up diversions for Delhi-bound vehicles at eight places as farmers try to reach the capital and khaps in south Haryana plan to join them. Commuters TOI spoke to said they had been regularly getting late for work and spending long hours on the road. The blockades have forced many to return home. Pradeep Kumar, who lives in Ghaziabad’s Vijay Nagar, said on Thursday he decided to head back home after spending an hour on the road. “It was of no use trying to take a longer route to reach my office at Ashram. Half of the day would have been wasted,” he said. The lanes for Delhi-bound traffic of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway were blocked by agitators around 8.30 am on Thursday, forcing police to divert vehicles to Maharajpur and Seemapuri. Throughout the day, most arterial roads in Vaishali, Kaushambi, Indirapuram and Mohan Nagar remained congested and traffic crawled. Vehicles moved bumper to bumper for several kilometres. Traffic eased up marginally after about two hours, around 10am, when vehicles were diverted through internal roads in Lal Kuan and Noida’s Sector 62. Traffic from other parts of Ghaziabad also took a hit when police shut Hindon elevated road’s Raj Nagar Extension-Gazipur lane and vehicles were diverted towards Mohan Nagar and Delhi-Wazirabad Road through Karhera bridge. The closure of the Delhi-Noida lanes at Chilla for the second day put a halt to official work for many. “I had to go to Delhi for business. But I had to put that off because no one wants to take the risk of getting stuck near the border for hours. We have decided to put some of the work on hold till things are better,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, a Noida-based businessman. Asenior UP-Rera official who stays in Delhi said he hopes that on Friday he will be able to go to his office. “My office is in Greater Noida. Tomorrow (Friday) I will be entering Noida after two days. Hopefully, it will be hassle-free,” said Balvinder Kumar. The border chaos had a cascading effect on internal roads in Delhi. Several commuters TOI spoke to said they took at least a couple of hours more than usual to reach their destinations during the peak hours. On Twitter, Delhi Traffic Police posted a list of roads that were shut and could be accessed. “We have asked people to avoid the Noida link road for going towards Noida and use NH24 and DND instead,” said a Delhi traffic police officer. The Delhi-Noida lane of the road is open but commuters have been asked to avoid it. According to traffic police, Tikri, Jharoda and Jhatikra border roads are shut. An alert said Badusarai border is open but only for two-wheelers. “Haryana border areas that are open are Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri, NH8, Bijwasan, Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera,” said a traffic police officer. The Singhu border area is shut, along with Lampur and Auchandi. “...Please avoid outer ring road from Signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu, Auchandi & Lampur borders,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. In Gurgaon, the police have identified eight points on the expressway to put in place a diversion plan if needed. The diversion plan would be implemented only if farmers manage to reach Gurgaon and block roads, said an officer. The points identified for traffic diversions are Kapariwas, Bilaspur Chowk, Panchgaon Chowk, Manesar Chowk, Kherki Daula toll, Hero Honda Chowk, Rajiv Chowk and Shankar Chowk. DCP (traffic) DK Bharadwaj issued a traffic advisory on Thursday and urged people to use other routes. “The diversion will kick in only if the protest causes blockades and jam in Gurgaon. Otherwise the traffic flow will be normal,” he said. UP Gate farmers hold mahapanchayat as hundreds more joinWith slogans of “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan” filling the air, the farmers protesting at UP Gate held a mahapanchayat on Thursday to decide the further course of action. The farmers, who have been protesting near the Ghazipur border for the past six days, were joined by many more from Uttarakhand, Punjab and other parts of the state. “The ball is in the Centre’s court now. Give us our right and we will go back. The other option is to thrash us and send us back hom. We are ready to sit here till January 26 and even extend our protest to August 15. Talks are going on with the central government, and the further course of action will depend on that,” said Naresh Tikait, national president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, who led the mahapanchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-obstacle-course-in-national-chaos-region/articleshow/79557031.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Navy’s Netaji Subhas provides crucial security, aid amid Covid||Kolkata: With the pandemic affecting military units in Kolkata, particularly the movement of personnel and supplies, INS Netaji Subhas has continued to play a crucial role in providing security as well as assisting the government whenever required. On the eve of Navy Day, Commodore Suprobho K De, Naval Officer-in-Charge, We-st Bengal, highlighted efforts of the unit based in the city. “We had cases of Covid-19 and followed due procedure of isolation and quarantine. This is particularly difficult for military units where the work for every personnel is well defined and nobody is idle. Despite all this, there was no let-up in the level of alertness,” Commodore De said. “We continue to patrol the Hooghly. We provide logistics assistance to naval ships berthed in Kolkata for refitt-ing or otherwise. We are alert about activities going on in the Bay of Bengal region, particularly the estuarine border of the Sundarbans.” Navy Day is celebrated to mark the attack by missile boats of the Indian Navy on Karachi harbour in 1971 and the following blockade, cutting off vital supplies to Pakistan even as war raged along its eastern border with India and in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). The Navy then blockaded ports in East Pakistan to cut off supplies and prevent Pakistan army personnel from escaping. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/navys-netaji-subhas-provides-crucial-security-aid-amid-covid/articleshow/79555379.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 4, 2020||Vadodara||Savli farmer duped by four in land deal||Vadodara: A farmer living in Sevasi was duped allegedly by four persons in a land deal using a fake identity and documents. Chandu Patel lodged a complaint of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy on Wednesday against Vinod Solanki, a resident of Akota; Yogendrasinh Rana, a resident of Gotri; Deepak Shah, who lives in Warasia, and Narendra Helaiya, a resident of Gotri; at Vadodara Taluka police station. Patel alleged that the four accused ganged up in July 2016 to sell him land in Bil village that belonged to neither of them. Shah faked the identity of the original owner Harshad Vyas to finalize the deal for Rs 48 lakh. Patel initially paid a token amount of Rs 1.4 lakh and later paid Rs 6.9 lakh in instalments. A sale deed for the deal was also registered for which Shah had produced a forged voter identification card and the three other accused had signed as witnesses in it. It was a few months later that Patel learnt that he had been cheated when he learnt about the real owner of the land. Patel then asked the accused to return his money, but they kept dilly-dallying by making excuses. When he continued to demand his money back, the accused threatened to register a false case against him. On receiving the threats, Patel approached cops. The four accused are yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/savli-farmer-duped-by-four-in-land-deal/articleshow/79552316.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Table alternative farm bill: Adhir to TMC||Kolkata: West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee president Adhir Chowdhury wants the ruling Trinamool Congress to table “an alternative farm bill” in the state assembly instead of merely criticising the Union government’s new farm laws. “The market is on fire. The state government says potato and onion prices are spiralling beyond control ever since the Centre dropped these food items from the list of essential commodities. Why isn’t the government calling a session of the Bengal assembly and adopting an alternative farm bill?” Chowdhury said, taking a cue from some Congress-ruled states that are mulling this route. The veteran leader mooted the proposal while announcing his party’s public outreach programme — Bazare Bazare — in response to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s welfare-on-doorstep campaign Duare Sarkar. Congress workers will visit markets in every block from December 9 and hold demonstrations against rising prices. The programme is a part of the party’s independent initiative to make its presence felt ahead of the assembly polls. According to legal experts, Bengal could take recourse to Article 254(2) of the Constitution that provides that a state legislature can pass a law on matters included on the Concurrent List in case provisions of the law passed by Parliament is “repugnant to provisions of an existing state law”. Nevertheless, the same will require the President’s assent. The state government is decidedly not in a mood for a legal wrangle at the moment. “There are many other ways by which the Centre’s anti-farmer stance can be fought. We are exploring those ways,” a Trinamool minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/table-alternative-farm-bill-adhir-to-tmc/articleshow/79555604.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||3% DA for West Bengal staff in January 2021||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a 3% DA for all state employees in January 2021. The move is expected to cost the state exchequer an additional Rs 2,200 crore. Banerjee also said land mutation certificates will not be mandatory for farmers seeking to enrol in the Krishak Bandhu scheme during the ‘Duare Sarkar’ (government at doorstep) camps. Banerjee, urging the party’s state employees federation to express “solidarity” with central government employees who are fighting job-loss prospects, stressed how the Centre had “freezed” DA (for its employees) for the past two years and some state governments had even slashed employee entitlements by a third. “In Bengal, be assured that your jobs are safe. Not a single person has lost his/her job. Even those (state employees) who had opposed me are safe. In fact, they got more advantages. The retirement age of contractual employees has been extended to 60 years and they are entitled to a Rs 3-lakh post-retirement benefit. The monthly emoluments of ASHA, ICDS and civic volunteers have been increased. Now, compare this with central government employees who are living under the fear of layoffs and VRS,” she said. According to details provided at the meeting, the state had implemented the 30% DA revision proposal of the Pay Commission from 2011. Later, when the DA reached 125% of the salary, it was merged with the basic salary. In 2020 January, this revised salary with an additional component of 2.5% was paid to the employees. It had cost the state a little over Rs 14,000 crore. The 3% DA will be on the revised scale, the employees were told. Banerjee also said the requirement for mutation certificates to enrol in the Krisak Bandhu scheme will be waived. The scheme provides farmers, with 1-acre or more land, with a Rs 5,000 per annum assistance in the Rabi and Kharif season. It also provides for a Rs 2-lakh one-time assistance for any farmer’s death. “I would request BLLROs to waive the need for mutation certificates. The taxes for agricultural land holdings have been waived. Even for homestead land, no taxes will be charged till June. Self-attested declarations (on tax payments) will be accepted. In case declarations are found wrong, they will be addressed appropriately,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-da-for-bengal-staff-in-january-21/articleshow/79555501.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee plans nationwide stir if ‘anti-farmer’ laws not withdrawn||KOLKATA: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday threatened protests “throughout the state and the country” if the Centre did not withdraw the “anti-farmer” laws “immediately”. Banerjee has convened a party meeting on Friday to discuss specifically how the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 was “impacting common people and resulting in skyrocketing prices”. The CM’s statement comes nearly a month after her November 9 letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which she alleged that this Act was taking away state’s powers to act against illegal profiteers and hoarders and stop supply-chain disruptions, resulting in spiralling potato and onion prices in Bengal. On Thursday, Banerjee posted on Twitter: “I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately, we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills.” Saying that “the central government must withdraw this anti-people law”, she added: “The GOI is selling everything. You cannot sell Railways, Air India, Coal, BSNL, BHEL, banks, defence, etc. Withdraw ill-conceived disinvestment and privatization policy. We must not allow the treasures of our nation to be transformed into BJP party’s personal assets.” Trinamool Congress is likely to roll out its protest plans after Friday meeting, expected to be held at 3 pm. While party MPs had opposed the farm bills in Parliament, TMC’s Kisaan Khet Mazdoor Committee had also taken to the streets in protest. In her November 9 letter, Banerjee had sought central intervention to check the rising prices and argued that either the state’s power be “restored” to control “production, supply, distribution and sale of agricultural commodities” or the state be allowed to enact an appropriate law for it. Meanwhile, TMC’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandopadhyay and Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien are likely to attend the virtual all-party meeting to be chaired by the PM on Friday. In her letter she had said, “As per the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potatoes are removed from the list of essential commodities. The amendments are seriously encouraging hoarders and hoarding and profiteering on essential items like potato, onion etc. thereby resulting in price rise and consequent sufferings to the consumers and the common people. Moreover, the amendments have effectively usurped the powers of the state government in facilitating the supply, distribution and sake of essential food items to the common public and regulating unscrupulous market forces that encourage hoarding, profiteering and supply-chain disruptions putting common people to huge discomfort. Only the central government now has the power to regulate these agri-products…” Banerjee has been speaking on this issue in her public and administrative meetings also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-plans-nationwide-stir-if-anti-farmer-laws-not-withdrawn/articleshow/79555422.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||TMC cool to talks, Suvendu set to clear air on Sunday||Kolkata: Rebel Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari is all set to clarify his political position on Sunday after he sent an angry message to party senior Saugata Roy on Wednesday saying “it was difficult to work together” in the party. Roy, who had been the interlocutor in the talks between Suvendu and Trinamool, also showed no further interest in talking to the rebel, thus putting an end to the dialogue to thrash out organizational problems. Roy answered Suvendu’s message on Thursday after a detailed discussion with Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee. “I have nothing to say on Suvendu,” the veteran leader said, leaving it to the rebel to chart out his course. Now that dialogue has hit the wall, speculation is rife among Suvendu loyalists that their Dada may make the quit-Trinamool announcement without waiting for the December 6 media meet. Trinamool activists, on the other hand, were curious to know why Suvendu joined talks with party seniors — Abhishek Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Sudip Bandyopadhyay along with election strategist Prasant Kishor — on Tuesday evening and talked to CM Banerjee over the phone if he was not in a position to wait for the party to address his grievances. Suvendu loyalists said he would speak out on the weeks-long “mind game” when he addresses the media on Sunday, a day before the CM reaches out to Midnapore town on December 7. While the rebel leader continued with his non-party programmes in East Midnapore’s Tamluk and West Midnapore’s Garbeta on Thursday, the Bengal government dropped Suvendu loyalist and Kharar Municipality board of administrators chairman Uttam Mukherjee, days after another loyalist Pranab Basu was removed from the Midnapore Municipality’s board of administrators. The removal order reached Kharar Municpality the day Suvendu messaged Roy saying the talks held the day before didn’t resolve the points he had raised. At the Garbeta meeting, Suvendu greeted Adivasi women and people in general, Kudmis and minority communities of the area. “This village boy is fighting for ideals and will continue to do so. I seek your blessings,” he said, gauging the reaction of Muslims who comprise a large chunk of his support base in Jangalmahal, East Midnapore and Murshidabad, apart from other places. In fact, Suvendu’s assembly constituency Nandigram has a 35% Muslim population. Later in the evening, his loyalists held a rally in Haldia, days after Trinamool’s Sujit Basu and Rajib Banerjee led a party rally in the industrial township. In Tamluk, no Trinamool district leader was seen accompanying Suvendu when he walked a 1km stretch with schoolchildren and residents on the occasion of Shahid Khudiram Bose’s birthday and paid a visit to Hamilton school, where the martyr had studied. (With inputs from Sujoy Khanra and Suman Mandal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-cool-to-talks-suvendu-set-to-clear-air-on-sunday/articleshow/79555218.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||Didi: Focus on inclusive growth amid pandemic||Kolkata: There is a need for inclusive growth and not polarisation amid this pandemic, feels chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Addressing a webinar on Thursday, she said: “We will have to wait for the vaccine. There must be some long-term plans on how to survive. We need to focus on the right priorities.” Banerjee pointed out that many people had lost their lives and livelihood because of the pandemic. “Despite this difficult situation, West Bengal is going ahead and though (our) earning is low, it is better than other states,” she said. The CM maintained that Bengal was “number one” in growth with respect to state domestic product (SDP), self-governance, e-tendering, MSME, unorganized sector, steel, eradication of poverty and ease of doing business. She said Bengal had the largest self-governance structure in the country and around 1,500 IT companies were working in the state. “Nearly 2.1 lakh IT professionals are working here, and the proposed Silicon Valley hub in New Town will provide jobs to 9,000 more with an investment outlay of Rs 3,000 crore,” she said. Expansion plans chalked out by existing IT firms like Wipro and TCS will add more jobs while ITC Infotech has almost completed its project in New Town with employment opportunities for 3,000 professionals. Infosys will set up its design centre, for which it has obtained land. On employment opportunities, Banerjee said: “Home-grown talent need not go outside the state or move around the world to look for jobs. The state has 65 industrial parks, 520 clusters and also an animation academy.” The fintech hub in New Town is occupied by several banks like SBI and other financial institutions, she pointed out. “We want to be positive despite a negative scenario. The state is a gateway to the northeast and countries like Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Thailand and Singapore,” the CM said. Since May 2011, when the Banerjee government came to power in Bengal, major indices such as state GDP, plan expenditure, capital expenditure, and social and physical infrastructure have shown remarkable growth. “Companies want to invest in the state as evident from the business summits held,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-focus-on-inclusive-growth-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79555376.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||1 killed as BSF exchanges fire with smugglers at B’desh border||Behrampore: A smuggler was killed and 14 cattle seized after a gunbattle with BSF personnel in Sagarpara near the India-Bangladesh border early on Thursday. According to officials, the BSF intelligence branch had received a tip-off about 150 cattle smugglers being assembled to smuggle out 50-60 cattle around 3.30am. A vigilance unit was despatched at first but as the smugglers started shooting at the jawans, an ambush-cum-patrolling party was deployed to the site and fired four rounds in retaliation. A smuggler identified as Hasibul Seikh (30) received bullet injuries. He was taken by relatives to Murshidabad Medical College Hospital in Behrampore, where he was declared brought dead. Kunal Majumdar, DIG (operations) of BSF South Bengal, said: “As smugglers tried to ferry out cattle at Chakmathuri point under Sagarpara Border Outpost area, the operation wing fired in self-defence. While the smugglers were trying to flee in the darkness, one of them received a bullet injury.” Seikh was a resident of Digri village under Katlamari gram panchayat in Raninagar police station. Khairul Seikh, a relative, said: “Hasibul is known as a farmer to us. We do not know why he was in Sagarpara at that time of night as it is far from home.”  Jawans have seized 6,224 cattle since January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-killed-as-bsf-exchanges-fire-with-smugglers-at-bdesh-border/articleshow/79555426.cms||Sukumar Mahato
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||9 honoured for ideas to help PwDs beat daily hurdles||Kolkata: A competition announced in July to improve everyday lives of persons with disabilities has been met with enthusiasm, with nine individuals offering innovative ideas to circumvent hurdles and make a difference. Naman Patel, who uses a wheelchair, improvised a motorbike with a ramp so that he could ride it himself. The wheelchair remains connected to the bike. A woman from Purulia used traditional speech therapy on her son, who was born with hearing and speech impairment. While doctors said he would never be able to talk, he now speaks full sentences. The people behind these and seven other ideas, which can be replicated to help hundreds of others, were awarded by EI India at a Project Discovery programme held on Thursday. EI India had in July invited short videos depicting solutions to overcome hurdles due to disabilities. More than 600 people from 29 states sent in their ideas that encompassed 21 disability groups mentioned in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, including physical, sensory, intellectual and multiple disabilities. “For persons with disabilities, the meaning of the word solution is to find an alternative method to overcoming challenges by working around a problem in order to live an independent and dignified life. The objective of Project Discovery is to create a nationwide database of such innovative everyday solutions that persons with disabilities, their parents or caregivers have devised,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/9-honoured-for-ideas-to-help-pwds-beat-daily-hurdles/articleshow/79555536.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 4, 2020||Kolkata||CISCE seeks nod to open schools on January 4||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has written to Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee — and CMs of all other states — seeking permission to reopen schools from January 4, 2021 for students of Class X and Class XII before their board examinations, reports Somdatta Basu. This is necessary to provide ample time for practical classes and project work, for which actual student-teacher interaction is necessary, the letter, signed by CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon, says. Arathoon — who had said last week that the board examinations would most likely be deferred to June — later told TOI that the examinations would most likely be pen-and-paper. On Wednesd-ay, CBSE, too, had announced that its exams would be held in the usual analogue format. “With students physically attending school, the time will be utilized for practical work, project work, socially useful productive work and for clearing doubts. This will be extremely beneficial to the students who will get time to interact directly with teachers,” Arathoon has written. The council has given its assurance that schools affiliated to it will follow Covid-19 directives of the state government and conform to safety guidelines and standard operating procedures of the state health department. “Students need some amount of classes to appear for practical examinations,” Arathoon later said. “The examinations will be pen and paper tests, as there are challenges in conducting an online board exam because of connectivity issues. Some students have even used smartphones while attending classes. But how can an online board examination be conducted on mobile phones?” The council has also requested the chief election commissioner of India to share tentative election dates of states that are going to polls next year, in order to avoid exam dates clashing with elections. Bengal, which is scheduled to have assembly elections next summer, has the largest number of schools affiliated to CISCE in the country. School teachers and administrators welcomed the council’s move. “Most principals feel that schools should reopen,” said Raja McGee, principal of Calcutta Boys School and secretary of Methodist School in Dankuni. “We already have a staggered attendance plan in place. When schools reopen, all SOPs and social distancing norms will be maintained on campus,” he assured. Pointing out that it was virtually impossible to conduct practical classes online, the principal said students required hands-on experience. “We have to train our children to live with this virus. Life has to return to normal. We can’t keep students isolated forever. We will allow 15 students in the laboratory at a time. The labs will be sanitised before students come in and after they leave,” he said. Another school principal said classes were the need of the hour. “Schools and students are eagerly looking forward to resuming classes once there is a go-ahead from the state government. We have already received several requests from parents,” he said. The chief minister had indicated last month that schools were unlikely to reopen anytime soon. The decision to resume on-campus classes from December at even higher education institutes received a setback after there were reports of outbreaks among schoolchildren in states where face-to-face interactions had restarted. Some states — such as Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Andhra Pradesh — have resumed on-campus classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-seeks-nod-to-open-schools-on-jan-4/articleshow/79556014.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 4, 2020||Business||GRSE lays keel of Navy’s survey vessel in Chennai||Kolkata: Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) of Kolkata has not only extended its reach across the country but also expanded its capacity by tying up with L&T for use of its shipyard in Chennai. The keel of the second Survey Vessel Large was laid at L&T's Kattupalli shipyard in Chennai on Tuesday. Among those present were Vice Admiral Vinay Badhwar, Chief Hydrographer to the Government of India and Rear Admiral V K Saxena (retd), chairman-cum-managing director, GRSE. This vessel is part of a contract won by GRSE for the building of survey ships for the Navy in October 2018. The value of this contract is nearly Rs 2,435 crore and the first ship of this series is to be delivered by October 2021. The second ship, the keel of which was laid on Tuesday, will be launched from Chennai before it sails to Kolkata for outfitting. “The ship will be 110 metres long with a displacement of 3,300 tonnes. It can accommodate a crew of 231 and will have a top speed of 16 knots. These ships will have hulls specially designed by GRSE and allow landing of helicopters. It will also operate Autonomous Underwater Vehicles and Remote Operated Vehicles for deepwater hydrographic surveys that will aid the Navy in its operations,” a GRSE official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/grse-lays-keel-of-navys-survey-vessel-in-chennai/articleshow/79555941.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 4, 2020||India||PM hails fortitude of persons with disabilities||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that India has taken numerous measures to ensure a positive change in the lives of persons with disabilities, as he gave a call for collectively working towards ensuring opportunity and improving accessibility for them. The International Day of Persons with Disabilities is annually observed on December 3. Using the hashtag of the “International Day of Persons with Disabilities”, PM Modi tweeted, “The resilience and fortitude of persons with disabilities inspires us. Under the Accessible India initiative, numerous measures have been taken that ensure there is a positive change in the lives of our Divyang sisters and brothers”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-hails-fortitude-of-persons-with-disabilities/articleshow/79557081.cms||---
December 4, 2020||India||No emergency nod to Eli Lilly’s drug||NEW DELHI: A government expert panel on Covid-19 under the Union health ministry has rejected Eli Lilly’s proposal seeking emergency nod for antibody drug ‘Bamlanivimab’ due to weak efficacy data. The US-based company had applied for permission to import and market Bamlanivimab (700 mg) in India for the treatment of mild-to-moderate Covid-19, requesting a waiver of clinical trials in the country. The drug belongs to a class called monoclonal antibodies, which were also used in US President Donald Trump’s Covid-19 treatment in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-emergency-nod-to-eli-lillys-drug/articleshow/79557086.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||‘There seems to be a lack of consistency’: Sharad Pawar on Rahul Gandhi||MUMBAI: Celebrations to mark the first anniversary of the triparty Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra hit a note of controversy with NCP president Sharad Pawar, who is also the architect of the coalition, making critical observations on the leadership of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Pawar who was interviewed by Lokmat group editor Vijay Darda, was responding to a question on whether the country was ready to be led by Rahul Gandhi. Pawar observed that there were questions on the issue. “There appears to be lack of consistency, it will have to be seen if there is acceptance within the party organization,’’ he said. Pawar, however, added that the rank and file of the Congress still has faith in the Nehru-Gandhi family. Regarding comments on Rahul Gandhi in Barack Obama’s recent book, Pawar said there was no need for him to agree with the views expressed by the former US president. “I do not comment on the performance of heads of foreign countries,” he added. Reacting to Pawar’s comments, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “We do not know in what context Pawar saheb has given his opinion. But to be more specific, the Congress and our leader Rahul Gandhi has been more consistent than any other party in its opposition to RSS and the Modi government. Rahul Gandhi is one of the very few politicians who has the uncompromising courage to speak against the current dispensation in the country, especially when it is shamelessly muzzling the voice of the opposition, trampling democratic norms while constitutional institutions are watching helplessly, having lost their independence and credibility.” Pawar also took a question on whether his daughter Supriya Sule can become the first woman chief minister of Maharashtra. His reply was she was not interested in state politics. “Ever since she joined politics, she has taken keen interest in national politics, she was won several awards at the national level,’’ he said. So far as Maharashtra is concerned, Pawar said the NCP has several leaders, including Ajit Pawar, Jayant Patil and Dhananjay Munde to lead it at the state level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/there-seems-to-be-a-lack-of-consistency-sharad-pawar-on-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/79557079.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||Assistant BMC commissioner sorry, to pay Rs 1 lakh fine for HC order breach||MUMBAI: Pulled up by Bombay high court for breach of its order to personally hear the owner of Lalit Restaurant & Bar at Dhobi Talao before passing a demolition order, the assistant municipal commissioner of C ward apologised and agreed to pay Rs 1 lakh fine towards KEM Hospital’s poor patients’ fund. “Tell us what fine you will pay or we’ll take you in custody till the court rises. It is a clear case of contempt,” a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla told Chakrapani Alle on Thursday. During the previous hearing on November 5, after hearing a second petition by hotelier Lalit Dsouza, the HC had asked Alle “to show cause why action should not be taken against him” for not complying with the August 11high court order. Dsouza had initially challenged the August 3 demolition order passed by Alle regarding an alleged illegal portion of the over 4,300 sq ft eatery following a complaint by Shiv Sena corporator Amey Ghole. On August 11, the HC quashed and set aside Alle’s order and directed that Dsouza be given a personal hearing. But, on September 27, Alle passed another razing order. Dsouza again moved the HC which, on November 5 set aside the demolition order, and directed that Alle will not deal with the matter further. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, for BMC, said it was a bona fide mistake by Alle due to work pressure as he’s managing 17 internal departments and 3,000 staffers, the additional charge of B ward and is keeping the Covid case count low in his ward. But Justice Kathawalla pointed out: “In the August order, we had mentioned about his [Alle’s] conduct in March. It can’t be a mistake. He is repeatedly doing it.” And in Dsouza’s case, “he is doing something which is mischievous”, the judge said, adding: “Where was the need to paste the notice? Just because corporator says he must do it?” When the HC asked when he had received the August 11order, Alle replied that neither had he read the order nor did his staff bring to notice that he had to give a personal hearing to Dsouza. “What sort of officer you are? You are assistant commissioner...and you don’t bother to read HC’s order?” asked Justice Kathawalla. With folded hands Alle said, “I’m extremely sorry.” Accepting his apology, the HC gave Alle the option of paying a fine or facing a sentence for contempt. When he agreed to pay Rs 1 lakh fine, Justice Kathawalla said, “Let him pay to your [BMC] own hospital.” The judges will soon pass a formal order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/assistant-bmc-commissioner-sorry-to-pay-rs-1-lakh-fine-for-hc-order-breach/articleshow/79557099.cms||Rosy Sequeira
December 4, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man gets 2 years' rigorous imprisonment for groping woman at CSMT||MUMBAI: A travel firm employee was convicted by a magistrate court on Tuesday, eight years after he had groped a woman at CSMT. Kailas Pahadi (30) was sentenced to two years' rigorous imprisonment and fined Rs10,000, of which Rs8,000 will be given as compensation to the victim. The court observed that Pahadi's act impacted the victim's mind and broke her confidence. The woman worked in a private firm at CSMT and lived at Dombivli. She deposed that she was boarding a Karjat local from CSMT on February 15, 2012, when groped. On spotting a man behind her, she asked why he had done so but he got into a general compartment adjacent to the ladies first class coach that she was boarding. When she told co-travellers about it, one of them dialled the RPF helpline when the train reached Kanjurmarg. At Dombivli station, RPF personnel arrested him. The defence counsel claimed there were inconsistencies in the deposition and FIR. The FIR mentioned the accused was caught red-handed by commuters but he escaped and boarded the adjacent coach. Her deposition and FIR also differed in terms of where he had touched her. But the court observed that victim's version was corroborated through the testimony of a witness, Nalini (name changed), who had accompanied her. Nalini told court she and the victim had been groped in the past but on February 15 the victim spotted the culprit. She added that the victim and co-travellers caught the accused but he escaped. The victim also noticed the accused board an adjacent general coach, Nalini deposed. The defence counsel argued that despite the fast train halting at stations between CSMT and Dombivli, no attempt was made to nab the accused then. Nalini responded that they had been trying helplines but the numbers were busy. The defence counsel put on the stand three colleagues of Pahadi from the travel agency who said he was hardworking, dedicated, respected women and there were no complaints against him from female colleagues at the workplace. "But they said during cross-examination they did not know about his personal life," said prosecutor Gautam Gaikwad. "The prosecution cited positive evidence that the victim saw the accused in the act and this has been corroborated by the other witness and FIR. So, evidence cited by the accused in his defence will not help him," magistrate Vijay Kedar observed. Senior inspector Rajendra Pal said efforts would be made to prevent molestation cases at the railway terminus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-gets-2-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-groping-woman-at-csmt/articleshow/79557101.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 4, 2020||India||In Puri, more than Covid, ban from ‘gateway to heaven’ scares faithful||NEW DELHI: At 8am every day, 60-yearold Durga Prasad Das Mohapatra goes to the Jagannath Temple in Puri to offer prayers. This has been his routine for the last 45 years. Mohapatra is the daitapati nijog or the general secretary of the group of 185 servitors who are engaged in the Rath Yatra in Puri every year. If the 12th century temple is at the centre of Mohapatra’s existence, his life’s desire is to be cremated at Swargadwar — the crematorium in Puri that many Hindus believe to be ‘the gateway to heaven’. Mohapatra is among the countless who harbour this wish. But now, coronavirus has come in the way of faith. The local administration has prohibited cremation of Covid-19 victims at Swargadwar. And this ban has given rise to an extraordinary situation. The stigma attached with the disease and the fear of spending lonely days in a hospital, added to the apprehension of not getting a cremation at Swargadwar is said to be making people — especially the elderly — risk their lives. People are avoiding getting tested and not approaching doctors when symptoms of Covid show up, say residents of this seaside town in Odisha. READ THE STORY ON TOI+ When Covid shut this 'gateway of heaven'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-puri-more-than-covid-ban-from-gateway-to-heaven-scares-faithful/articleshow/79557109.cms||Yudhajit Shankar Das
December 4, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur school teacher wins $1 million global prize||PUNE: Ranjitsinh Disale (32), a zilla parishad teacher from Paritewadi in Solapur district, has won the Global Teacher Prize of $1 million for using QR codes while imparting lessons as well as employing various other innovative teaching methods to reduce the school dropout rate, especially among female students. Disale will continue with his job and intends to share 50% of the prize money with the remaining nine finalists. “They can use it to improve their area of work. I will set aside 30% of the prize money as an Innovative Teachers Fund to help teachers from across the country who are innovating in different ways, especially in villages and rural areas,” he said. Earlier, only one or two teachers from India had made it to the top 10 list for the award but nobody had won it, Disale said. “My achievement has been possible because of my students. I would like to celebrate with them on Sunday, taking into account social distancing norms and other precautionary measures,” he said. The teacher also plans to fund his project, ‘Let’s Cross the Borders’, which connects young people from India and Pakistan, Palestine and Israel, Iraq and Iran, as well as US and North Korea. Over six weeks for the past three years, students are matched with a peer from another country to interactively learn about their conflict, understand similarities, build empathy and suggest solutions for peace. Ten teachers from across the globe were shortlisted for the prize last month. Disale was announced as the winner on December 3 at a virtual ceremony from London. The award was given by the Varkey Foundation, in partnership with UNESCO. “The impact of Ranjitsinh’s interventions has been extraordinary: there are now no teenage marriages in the village and 100% attendance by girls at the school. The school was also recently awarded the best school in the district with 85% of his students achieving ‘A’ grades in annual exams. One girl from the village has now graduated from university, something seen as an impossible dream before Ranjitsinh arrived,” said the official website for the Global Teacher Prize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-school-teacher-wins-1-million-global-prize/articleshow/79557123.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 4, 2020||India||Sena MLA and son fail to appear before ED||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik and his son Vihang failed to appear before the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday for questioning in connection with a money laundering case. The ED had summoned Vihang for the fifth time on Thursday, but he failed to show up saying his wife was unwell. Sarnaik had earlier sought a week’s time saying he had returned home from a trip and was under quarantine. ED officials declined to comment on their next course of action. The ED had collected several documents during the investigation, including a foreign bank account in the name of Pratap Sarnaik and wanted to confront him about it. It is stated that ED officials also found suspicious transactions and companies associated with Sarnaik. Meanwhile, the ED moved Bombay high court to challenge an order of a special holiday sessions judge passed on November 29 rejecting its plea for extension of remand of Amit Chandole, an aide of Sarnaik. The trial Judge had sent Chandole to judicial custody till December 9, which ED said was “hampering its investigation.” The agency is seeking orders from HC for Chandole’s custody to continue its probe. The Bombay high court will hear the matter on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sena-mla-and-son-fail-to-appear-before-ed/articleshow/79557129.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 4, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Mau police book 14 under conversion law||LUCKNOW: Mau police booked 14 persons under the new anticonversion law late on Thursday after the father of a girl reported that his daughter had been kidnapped for marriage by the boy’s family, which is from another religion. This is the third FIR lodged under the new law in the state. One youth in Bareilly and two in Muzaffarnagar have already been booked. SP Mau Ghule Sushil Chandrabhan, said that the FIR was lodged at Chiraiyakot police station by the father of a girl who is the resident of Morenaganj village. “He has alleged that his daughter was kidnapped for marriage in connivance with the boy’s family members,” said the police chief of the eastern UP district. The officer also said that on the basis of preliminary investigations, it came to the fore that the ‘groom’ in this case was already married. “Five teams have been formed to trace the duo,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-mau-police-book-14-under-conversion-law/articleshow/79557142.cms||---
December 4, 2020||Hyderabad||2-month oath-taking wait for new GHMC corporators||HYDERABAD: Newly-elected GHMC corporators will have to wait for two months to take oath. The reason: The term of the present GHMC council lasts till February10. This situation has arisen for the first time as the state government decided to conduct polls early. Previous elections to GHMC were held after vacancies were declared by the government. Officials said after declaration of results, the government with the recommendation of the GHMC and the State Election Commission (SEC) would publish a gazette notification with corporators’ names. The SEC will issue a notification for mayor and deputy mayor elections. “A special meeting will be convened on or after February 10 for the new corporators to take the oath and to complete mayor and deputy mayor elections. The existing council members and mayor can discharge duties and hold meetings without any problem till February 10,” an additional commissioner of GHMC told TOI. For the oath-taking, the elected members will be called in Telugu alphabetical order of their surnames. “If there is no surname, proper name will be taken into consideration. In instances where only initials precede the proper name, the initials are ignored,” an official said. For holding the election of mayor and deputy mayor, there should be one-half of the number of total members who are entitled to vote in the elections. “If there is no quorum in the said meeting within one hour from the time appointed for the meeting or there is quorum but no election takes place, the meeting shall be adjourned for the next day, irrespective of the fact whether it is a working day or a holiday,” a senior SEC official said. “If there is no quorum in the second meeting or there is a quorum but the election does not take place, the matter would be referred to the State Election Commission for orders,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-month-oath-taking-wait-for-new-ghmc-corporators/articleshow/79556995.cms||---
