December 5, 2020||India||Not just business scope, foreign companies to now get space tech access||BENGALURU: India has now amended its transfer of Technology (ToT) policy for the space sector to allow foreign companies direct access to technologies developed by Isro and the department of space (DoS) for the first time. Isro has at least 500 technologies ready for transfer, of which about 400 are already with more than 233 Indian private firms and are open to more firms. Now, foreign firms can also access most of these technologies, but dual-use and other sensitive patented technologies will have restrictions. "ToT activities are primarily intended for domestic utilisation of DoS-Isro developed technologies by Indian industries. However, in the context of liberalisation and globalisation, ToT requests from foreign firms will be encouraged as per guidelines issued by the government," the ToT Policy and Guidelines-2020, reviewed by TOI, reads. Such requests though, will be reviewed and processed on a case-to-case basis and terms of licensing will be arrived at considering the merits of organisation, intellectual value of the technology and its commercial potential, among other things. K Sivan, secretary, DoS, told TOI that earlier, technologies were open only to Indian industries but it’s time to push more technologies to the market, and the decision to give foreign firms access to DoS/Isro technologies will help this. "Allowing foreign firms access to our technology has two objectives: To bring more talent and investment to India and to ensure that Indian products enter the global market. So, foreign firms wanting access to our technology will need to invest in India either by directly setting up businesses here, or through tie-ups with Indian firms," Sivan said. Lab-Mkt through private companiesIn another first, the space agency will now allow Indian private firms to work on taking space research to the market by developing products in collaboration with Isro. "Processes and prototypes developed in the laboratory need an extra development or scale up to be successful in the market. This specific customised development could take place with the help of an interested industry under the guidance of a concerned scientist/engineer," the policy reads. Isro centres will facilitate incubation efforts and decide on modalities and under this programme, firms will be allowed to work directly with Isro on product creation, moving away from the existing system where private firms get fully developed technologies/products to assemble or manufacture. "The first right of refusal for technology transfer shall be given to industrial partner collaboration with Isro and DoS will decide on the incubation opportunities for start-ups and MSMEs," the DoS said. PV Venkatakrishnan, director, Isro Capacity Building Programme Office (CBPO), said: "We’ve already been encouraging both R&D and entrepreneurship among the youth through various programmes spread across national institutions. Now, we want to be able work closely with the industry on developing products, or improving existing products, for which they will receive support. The modalities will be worked out." The newly formed New Space India Limited (NSIL), a central PSU, has been mandated for commercialising the technologies developed by DoS/Isro. The technologies that are approved for transfer will be transferred to NSIL through an internal agreement enabling the latter to transfer the technologies with technical support extended from Isro towards hand-holding and training the industry. Incentives for Isro scientistsThe policy envisages to create a technology transfer organisation at Isro and ToT will be organised through a centralised Technology Transfer Group (TTG). This centralised office will interface with all Isro centres through centre-level ToT Cells (TTC). The TTG will be responsible for getting proposals reviewed by the Centralised ToT Committee (CTTC). Further, it will formalise adequate recognition in the form of incentives and awards for successful technology transfer cases at various Isro centres/units. Isro scientists and engineers will be motivated to take up technology transfer activities in addition to regular project activities they are engaged in. ToT to NGOs and community-based organisationsArguing that NGOs and other community-based organisations (CBOs) play an important role in development of weaker sections of community as well as service delivery in local and rural areas, the policy says these organisations can access ‘spin off’ technologies which may have wider societal applications. "NSIL will not have to pay ToT cost to DoS and must, on a non-exclusive basis, transfer technologies to NGOs and CBOs with suitable rebates in licensing fee/royalty. Such decisions may be taken by NSIL appropriately," the policy reads. However, NSIL is barred from committing to any funding or investment from its side for successful application of such technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-just-business-scope-foreign-companies-to-now-get-space-tech-access/articleshow/79573158.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Is your car private or public space? It depends on the place, say lawyers||During a hearing in the Delhi High Court recently, the Delhi government argued that a car is not a private zone, and you need to wear a mask inside the car. The Delhi government made this statement after a plea by a lawyer who challenged the imposition of a Rs 500 fine on him, for not wearing a mask when he was travelling alone in the vehicle. This once again brought into focus the debate whether one’s car in a public place is a private or a public space. Does that mean that the moment you are out of your driveway, your car becomes a public space? Here’s what lawyers have to say. Is the car a public or private zone? Depends, say lawyersVivek Narayan Sharma, an advocate and ex-Joint Secretary of Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association, says, “UNESCO had defined public space. According to that definition, a public place is that which is open and accessible for all. Is my car accessible to all? No. Then how is it a public space? A locked car cannot be called public space. Delhi government’s argument of calling a car a public place won’t stand in court. A car is a private zone, but when it is about public safety, be it challan for drunken driving or non-usage of tinted glasses, action can be taken because even if it is your vehicle, you are putting others at risk.” Vivek Sood, senior advocate and criminal lawyer, says, “We can’t say a car is a private space or if it’s a public space because it depends upon where your car is. For instance, if your car is parked on the road and you are drinking, you can be arrested, but if your car is parked in your driveway and you are drinking, then you can’t be arrested.” He adds, “If the police want to search my car, they have the right to do so because there is a larger public interest. The privacy is not absolute when larger public interest is at risk. However, the larger public interest doesn’t mean that I don’t have any right to privacy. Suppose if someone is with their partner in the car in an isolated space or isolated parking zone and suppose they get intimate, then they cannot be implicated unless there is some obscenity.” Traffic officials in the capital say that Delhiites believe that they are entitled to behave as they please inside their carDelhiites believe in ‘my car, my rules’, say authoritiesBe it drunk driving challans, using tinted glasses or drinking on the road, traffic police officials in Delhi say that the most common excuses they get to hear include, “I’m not drinking on the road, I’m drinking in my car”, “It’s my car, why would the police decide whether I can use tinted glass or not?” A traffic police official of Delhi Police says, “A car is not a personal zone? Try telling this to Delhiites who think they own the roads! For every traffic offence this excuse is common, ‘I was inside my car’. People think that inside the car is their private space, so whether they are playing loud music in traffic, using colourful bulbs on their vehicle, using a tinted glass or even missing number plate – they believe their car is their property, and hence they can do anything.” ‘Arbitrary to say people who are alone in their cars can be penalised for not wearing masks’Last month, Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW), said, “The guidelines issued by the health ministry do not contain any directive that a person driving a car alone is required to wear a mask.” However, Delhi Police has been following guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (on June 13) which states that any person who is not wearing a face mask in a public place shall be penalised. Vivek Sood, senior advocate and criminal lawyer, says, “With respect to the mask situation, if I’m driving alone, why would I wear a mask? This is an arbitrary order. If there is any other person in the car, then yes, you should wear a mask, but not when alone. You are not putting anyone at risk.” Vivek Narayan Sharma, advocate and ex-Joint Secretary of Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association, adds, “In COVID situation, people are required to wear a mask. If you’re not wearing a mask, you can spread the virus. But being alone in a car and not wearing a mask – how is it a risk to anybody’s life? There is a logic behind laws, and these laws are for benefit of society. But without applying any logic if we apply any law, anywhere then it is unreasonable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/is-your-car-private-or-public-space-it-depends-on-the-place-say-lawyers/articleshow/79568700.cms||Niharika Lal
December 5, 2020||Business||RBI holds rates, projects positive Q3 GDP growth, higher inflation||MUMBAI/NEW DELHI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday held interest rates steady, forecast a lower GDP contraction for the second half of the year, and sharply raised inflation projections, asserting that growth will return to the positive territory in the third and fourth quarters of the 2020-21 fiscal year. The policy is expected to push growth as it sends a signal that interest rates have bottomed but funds would be available at current rates for the next few quarters. “The growth impulses that have emerged augur well for the revitalisation of the Indian economy,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said. Inflation likely to remain elevated“Policy stimuli by the government and the RBI are intended to nurture these growth sprouts to greater strength. Efforts are under way to ensure a calibrated unlocking of the economy, with cognisance and caution about the virus,” RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in his monetary policy statement that was live-streamed. “While we remain vigilant, we must now turn to alleviating the scars left by the pandemic and revive the economy. The horizon has lighted up with the spate of positive news on the vaccines, and a steady rise in recoveries,” said Das. The RBI governor said that the stance of the policy was to be accommodative in terms of liquidity until FY21 as the signs of recovery are far from being broad-based. All the six members of the MPC voted unanimously to keep RBI’s key lending rate to banks, or the repo rate, at 4%. The reverse repo rate, or the rate it offers banks for their surplus funds, stayed at 3.35%. Banks have said that interest rates will not go down further for borrowers as deposits’ growth has slowed and credit growth is slowly returning. Das did not give any indication that there was space for further rate cuts like he did in the past. “Data shows the economy is recuperating faster than expected. The contraction in Q2 was shallower than expected. The positive outlook is clouded by a rise in infection in some parts of the country. Taking these factors into consideration, the real GDP for FY21 is projected at -7.5%. For Q3 at 0.1% and 0.7% for Q4, and 21.9% to 6.5% in H1:2021-22, with risks broadly balanced,” said Das. The RBI governor said that the monetary policy was of the view that inflation is likely to remain elevated, with some relief in the winter months from prices of perishables and bumper kharif arrivals. “This constrains monetary policy at the current juncture from using the space available to act in support of growth. At the same time, the signs of recovery… are dependent on sustained policy support. A small window is available for proactive supply management strategies to break the inflation spiral being fuelled by supply chain disruptions, excessive margins and indirect taxes. Further efforts are necessary to mitigate supply-side-driven inflation pressures,” Das said. The RBI projected CPI inflation at 6.8% for the third quarter, 5.8% for the fourth quarter 2020-21; and 5.2% to 4.6% in H1:2021-22. Experts said the RBI monetary policy statement signalled the central bank’s readiness to take measures to boost growth despite the lurking shadows of inflationary pressures. “The tone remains dovish though repo rate change was kept on hold and adding a promise to take steps to boost growth. Continued accommodative stance will boost business confidence further,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD & CEO, Indian Bank. “We can hope that signs of recovery in Q2 and positive growth projected for H2 will improve the debt servicing capacity of corporates going ahead, she added. Among liquidity-enhancing measures, the government extended the targeted long-term repo operations to the 26 sectors that the government recently extended its emergency credit line guarantee scheme to. The TLTRO encourages banks to invest in the bonds of companies. These 26 sectors were originally identified by the Kamath Committee and included power, construction, iron & steel, roads and real estate. Watch Repo rate unchanged at 4%, GDP to contract by 7.5% in current FY||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-holds-rates-projects-positive-q3-gdp-growth-higher-inflation/articleshow/79573974.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Severity of co-morbidity may be a factor in vaccination priority list||NEW DELHI: The government is considering a separate classification to assess the severity of co-morbid conditions for people below 50 years of age to qualify for the priority vaccination list. People with a mild kidney ailment or moderately high blood pressure level may not be considered for vaccination in the first phase of the government’s rollout. However, over 20% of the population — aged 50 years and above — will be vaccinated after healthcare and front-line workers and almost 75% of people with co-morbidities —which are often related to age — are likely to be covered in this category, official sources said. “Co-morbidity is a wide term. For instance, there are patients with mild chronic disease as compared to those who are on dialysis. Similarly, there are people with diabetes who do not require medicines and can manage blood sugar levels by controlling diet or exercising, whereas there are some who need a very high dose of insulin and still their sugar levels may remain high,” an official said. He said the National Expert Committee on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 is deliberating on the issue and is trying to develop a strategy to address this challenge. “We are looking to develop a structured way of classifying co-morbidities as mild, moderate, and severe. Based on this, a call can be taken on who should be vaccinated first,” the official said. The government has identified four priority groups for vaccination in the first phase. This includes healthcare workforce and front-line workers including armed forces, police and municipal workers. The third category is of people above 50 years of age. The fourth category is of people below 50 years age but with co-morbidities. Watch Covid-19: Severity of co-morbidity may be a factor in vaccination priority list||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/severity-of-co-morbidity-may-be-a-factor-in-vaccination-priority-list/articleshow/79574057.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 5, 2020||India||SC asks Centre to take a call on mercy plea of Beant-killer||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday appeared to push the Centre to take a decision on the mercy plea filed on behalf of Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted and sentenced to death for triggering a bomb blast that killed then Punjab CM Beant Singh in 1995, saying it was impermissible that no decision had been taken even though it was more than a year after it decided to commute the death sentence to life term. On September 27 last year, the home ministry had informed the Punjab chief secretary that on the occasion of commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, it had been decided to commute Rajoana’s death sentence to life term. Rajoana, who had not appealed against the award of death sentence by a trial court in 2007 and its approval by Punjab and Haryana HC in 2010, has moved the SC seeking commutation of death sentence on the ground that he had been in prison for the last 25 years and on death row for the last 13. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and R Ramasubramanian told additional solicitor general K M Nataraj that it was untenable for the Centre to say that it has not processed the mercy petitions filed on behalf of Rajoana merely because appeals filed by his co-accused in the Beant Singh killing case were pending in the SC since 2011. Without explaining the nine-year delay in hearing the appeals by the SC, the bench told Nataraj, “It is obvious that the pendency of appeals filed by co-accused would have no relevance to the processing of proposal for placing mercy petitions before the President for exercise of his powers under Article 72 of the Constitution.” Nataraj sought two weeks to respond after obtaining instructions from the Union government. As many as 14 petitions seeking mercy for Rajoana were filed in 2012 before the President.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-asks-centre-to-take-a-call-on-mercy-plea-of-beant-killer/articleshow/79574188.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 5, 2020||India||Daily cases below 40,000 for 6 straight days, toll up by 500+||NEW DELHI: India has recorded almost exactly the same number of fresh Covid-19 cases for two days running, with this week’s count so far remaining below last week’s numbers, pointing to a continuing recession of the pandemic in the country. On Friday, India reported 36,757 new cases, while the previous day’s count was 36,746. The daily count has stayed within a narrow range of 36,000 to 37,000 for the past four days while the numbers last week were mostly above 40,000. The daily case count has now stayed under 40,000 for six straight days. The cumulative caseload crossed 96 lakh on Friday. Deaths, however, have been slightly higher this week as compared to the last. On Friday, 508 fatalities were recorded, the fourth straight day that the toll remained at 500 or above. Last week, only on a single day did Covid deaths cross 500. Active cases, meanwhile, continued to fall. Friday saw a drop of around 6,700, taking the count to around 4.1 lakh. Recoveries continued to rise after crossing 90 lakh on Thursday, with around 43,000 more patients declared cured. For the fourth consecutive day, Kerala led the tally of fresh cases with 5,718 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (5,229), Delhi (4,067), Bengal (3,206) and Uttar Pradesh (1,985). Maharashtra continued to record the highest fatalities, with 127 more deaths on Friday, followed by Delhi (73), Bengal (52), Kerala and Uttar Pradesh (both 29). For the third day in a row, Maharashtra reported over 5,000 cases and over 100 fatalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-cases-below-40000-for-6-straight-days-toll-up-by-500/articleshow/79574286.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Drug regulator starts rolling reviews to fast-track vaccine||NEW DELHI: In order to ensure speedy availability of Covid-19 vaccine in the country, the drug regulator has started accelerated rolling reviews for the vaccine candidates which are in advanced stage of clinical trials. Rolling review enables the regulator to examine the data generated through clinical trials on a real-time basis instead of waiting for the trials to be over and full data to be made available for evaluation at once.  “Interim analysis of clinical trial data at pre-defined stages will be conducted by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to facilitate early decision in emergency situa-tion. For candidates that have been developed outside of India, the regulator will also consider pre-clinical or clinical data generated outside of the country along with data from bridging studies in India before giving approval,” Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) VG Somani said. TOI had reported on November 4 that India may consider rolling reviews of Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials. In India, the government is expecting to roll out a vaccine for the priority population by early next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/drug-regulator-starts-rolling-reviews-to-fast-track-vaccine/articleshow/79574339.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 5, 2020||India||Mumbai offers highest quality of life, Chennai treats its women best: Study||NEW DELHI: There’s a reason cities are spoken of in organic terms. They come up, grow and thrive, or shrivel and die. But for decades, how a city treats its people has been judged by an idea of urban experience that is far removed from the lives we lead. Now, IIT-Bombay researchers have come up with an urban quality of life index tailored to the reality of life in India. And, for the first time, they have factored in gender parity. Chennai, it turns out, is the most women-friendly and Patna the least. Overall, Mumbai tops the list of 14, followed closely by Delhi, Kolkata and Chennai. But so important is the gender role index that quality of life rankings of six cities would have changed had it not been considered — Delhi, Jaipur and Indore would have been ranked higher, and Mumbai, Bhopal and Lucknow would have ceded their spots. Only Chennai, Kolkata and Mumbai surpass the average score for gender index, while Indore, Jaipur and Patna are way below average. “Women experience cities differently; meeting women’s needs becomes essential in promoting sustainable urban development,” the paper, in press to be published in Elsevier journal ‘Transport Policy’, said. The study found that Jaipur has the highest crime rate against women, Chennai has the lowest . The gap in literacy rate between men and women is the widest in Jaipur (13.2%) and lowest in Kolkata (5.4%). The unemployment rate for women is the highest in Patna — at 346, it is more than four times the urban average of 73. Another often overlooked factor are the basics — power, water, education. Only 36% urban households in Patna have access to treated tap water. Literacy was the highest in Pune (91%) and, surprisingly, the lowest in Hyderabad (83%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mumbai-offers-highest-quality-of-life-chennai-treats-its-women-best-study/articleshow/79574501.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
December 5, 2020||India||ED wants to make chopper scam ‘approver’ an accused now||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate told the Supreme Court on Thursday that it has decided to make businessman Rajiv Saxena, extradited from the UAEs last year in the case relating to AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam, an accused in the case again as he has breached the understanding for being made an approver. The ED told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that if pardon could be granted to an accused on the latter’s promise to bare all details of a crime, the same could be revoked if he did not honour the solemn promise. The ED was challenging an order of the Delhi HC, which had said the prosecutor’s certificate revoking grant of pardon has to be mandatorily preceded by recording of the approver’s statement during the trial. The bench issued notice to Saxena and stayed the HC order. The ED claimed that Saxena clearly breached the conditions for grant of pardon by giving false statements under Section 50 of Prevention of Money Laundering Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-wants-to-make-chopper-scam-approver-an-accused-now/articleshow/79574672.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 5, 2020||India||Delhi HC grants bail to journalist accused of spying for China||NEW DELHI: The Delhi HC on Friday granted bail to freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act for allegedly leaking sensitive information to Chinese intelligence, after police failed to file its chargesheet within the statutory period of 60 days. This comes even as Delhi Police’s special cell filed a chargesheet on the day in a city court against Sharma and two of his accomplices. Justice Yogesh Khanna granted the relief to Sharma on furnishing of a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh and a surety of the like amount, which shall be given by him within a week once the trial court resumes its normal functioning. While the trial court had dismissed Sharma’s bail plea after concluding that in this case police have time of 90 days to file the chargesheet, the HC set aside the lower court’s order as being “illegal” and said that in this case, the period would be 60 days. “The petitioner is thus entitled to default bail; the challan having not been filed within 60 days,” the HC noted, paving the way for release of the journalist arrested on September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-hc-grants-bail-to-journalist-accused-of-spying-for-china/articleshow/79574682.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Contactless celebrations on Navy Day in Kolkata||Just like us, this is a 'different' year for Indian Navy too. For the obvious reasons, this year the Indian Navy could not celebrate the Navy Day the way they used to. Navy Day is celebrated on November 4 to commemorate the attack on Karachi harbour by Indian missile boats during the 1971 Indo-Pak War. That was a turning point in the war as Pakistan could no longer pose a threat in the seas. The celebration usually starts a month before November 4 and includes activities like medical camps, interaction with school students and a performance by the Eastern Naval Command Band. According to Naval officer In-charge Commodore Suprobho De, the Indian Navy communicates with the civilians through these events and activities to educate the common people about the achievements of Indian Navy. “All these initiatives need physical contact and to avoid that we had to cancel these events. However, some were done via video conferencing,” Suprobho added. Moreover, the glamorous party at Laskar Memorial that usually takes place in the evening, has also been cancelled and since the governor was not present, Suprobho himself went to meet him. Even though the work and assignments didn’t stop, the officers had to constantly maintain the norms of physical distancing and in many ways, it became challenging for the soldiers. “Those who were on the ships, could not come out for a long time and there were special initiatives taken for the family members of the Navy,” informed Suprobho. Along with the Indo-China conflict, the Navy had to take active part in distributing masks and sanitisers across the country to different wings of the Indian Armed Forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/contactless-celebrations-on-navy-day-in-kolkata/articleshow/79574834.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
December 5, 2020||India||Farm stir: India summons envoy, but Trudeau defiant||NEW DELHI: Asking Canada to desist from making any comment that justifies “extremist activism”, India on Friday said recent utterances by Canadian PM Justin Trudeau and other leaders on the ongoing protests by farmers amounted to interference in India’s internal affairs. Such actions, if continued, would have a seriously damaging impact on ties between India and Canada, the government said in a statement. This was after the MEA summoned Canadian high commissioner Nadir Patel and handed over a demarche to him for the apparent show of support to the farmers’ right to protest by Canadian leaders. The ministry had not named Trudeau in its earlier response. “We expect the Canadian government to ensure the fullest security of Indian diplomatic personnel and its political leaders to refrain from pronouncements that legitimise extremist activism,” it said. Apart from Trudeau, several Sikh ministers had expressed support for the farmers’ “fundamental right” to protest. Addressing the Sikh community, Trudeau had described the situation in Delhi as “concerning” and said Canada will always be there to support the right for peaceful protest. A defiant Trudeau, when asked about MEA summoning Patel, reiterated that Canada will always stand up for the right to protest peacefully and human rights anywhere in the world and that Canada was pleased to see “moves towards de-escalation and dialogue”. When asked specifically about India’s threat that his remarks can damage bilateral ties, he said again that Canada will always support the right to protest peacefully. There were also reports that foreign minister S Jaishankar was going to skip a meeting by his Canadian counterpart Francois-Philippe Champagne for cooperation in the fight against Covid-19. MEA neither confirmed nor denied it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-hands-demarche-over-trudeaus-farmers-remarks/articleshow/79574838.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||‘Community, govt participation key to conservation of wetland’||PATNA: Officials and experts emphasised on joint efforts of community and government to conserve and protect wetlands in Bihar during a webinar on ‘Vulnerabilities of wetlands and its impact on climate change’, organised by the Centre for Environment Energy and Climate Change (CEECC)-ADRI. Delivering the keynote address, principal secretary (forests, environment and climate change) Dipak Kumar Singh said community participation will play an instrumental role in conservation of wetlands. He said an action plan to conserve and restore the wetlands in Bihar was essentially required. Prabhat P Ghosh, director, CEECC-ADRI, welcomed the gathering and spoke on wetland and its importance for environment. Ashok Kumar Ghosh, chairman, Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) talked about Kabar lake in Begusarai in detail, saying it was recognised by Ramasar Convention as wetlands of importance in October. “Around 35% of wetlands globally have declined in last 50 years. Kabar Lake has also significantly shrunk since 1988,” he said. He elaborated about the management of wetlands and mentioned that communities, government and the business should come together to conserve and restore wetlands. Meenakshi Dhote, professor, environmental planning, School of Planning & Architecture, New Delhi shared her views on the vulnerabilities to the urban wetlands. She also highlighted how the urban development activities are deteriorating the urban wetlands in the city areas in a very fast rate, along with providing the mitigation measures to be implemented for protection of urban cities in Bihar. She said wetlands should be identified, mapped and restored accordingly. She also mentioned that wetlands can be used for coconut plantation, fishing and horticulture. Ritesh Kumar, director, South-Asia, Wetlands International, shared his views and knowledge about the climate change impact on wetlands and how wetlands can play a role in climate change adaptation. In the keynote address, forest department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh shared his concerns over the deteriorating wetlands because of climate change and relevant measures undertaken by the state government. He also talked about the roadmap of the newly constituted Wetlands Authority of Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/community-govt-participation-key-to-conservation-of-wetland/articleshow/79571173.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||‘Complete railway projects on time’||PATNA: East Central Railway (ECR) general manager L C Trivedi inspected Patna-Mokama and Barauni-Katihar sections of the Danapur and Sonepur divisions, respectively, through video trailing system on Friday. The GM started his inspection from Patna Junction and visited Barh station where he inspected railway crossing gate located near the NTPC thermal point. He also took stock of the work on rail road bridge at Barh. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Trivedi later visited Barauni from where he made video trailing inspection on the Barauni-Katihar section of Sonepur division. The GM inspected work on construction of the 915metre-long rail bridge over the Kosi river on the Kataria-Kursela route, Kumar said, adding Trivedi directed the railway officials concerned to expedite the bridge work and complete it within the stipulated time. Danapur divisional railway manager Sunil Kumar, Sonepur divisional railway manager Anil Kumar Gupta and other senior officials of the ECR were present during GM’s inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/complete-railway-projects-on-time/articleshow/79571217.cms||Kumod Verma
December 5, 2020||Patna||DM reviews vaccine distribution readiness||PATNA: Patna DM Kumar Ravi on Friday held the first meeting of the district task force which has been formed to streamline distribution of proposed Covid-19 vaccine. Ravi asked the civil surgeon to form task force at block level to ensure proper distribution of vaccine. He said the meeting of the block level task force would be held on December 10. Apart from health department officials, those associated with ICDS, panchayati raj and education department will also be roped in and trained for the purpose. Ravi said in order to make the process smooth, a list of officials as well as beneficiaries will be made and particular regions will be tagged with officials so that when the vaccine arrives, it is given to beneficiaries without delay. Work on collecting the database of beneficiaries is already going on across the state and the health department has set December 8 deadline to complete the process. In the first phase, health workers, including doctors and staff of both government and private institutes, will be given the shot. While the DMs are the nodal incharge at district level, State Health Society executive director has been made the nodal incharge at state level. Apart from forming the list of beneficiaries, work related to strengthening of cold storage capacity is also going on along with the identification of health workers who will be roped in for giving the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-reviews-vaccine-distribution-readiness/articleshow/79571115.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 5, 2020||Business||Space tech startups get closer to launch with ISRO tie-up||Chennai: In a significant boost for private enterprises working in the space sector, the country’s national space agency has signed partnerships with two tech startups to support and mentor them. The Department of Space (DoS), on Thursday, signed a non-disclosure agreement with IIT-Madras startup Agnikul Cosmos, a maker of launch vehicles. With this, Agnikul became the first company to sign such a pact with Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) under the newly proposed Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe), a body set up to enable private players undertake space activities in India. Under the partnership, Agnikul will be able to work with various ISRO centers to get access to technical information and facilities necessary to go forward with their launch vehicle development. “We encourage new players such as Agnikul to explore disruptive technologies and break away from the conventional methods of manufacturing launch vehicles.”, said ISRO Chairman K Sivan, said. Srinath Ravichandran, co-founder and CEO of Agnikul Cosmos, said that with ISRO’s support, the startup should be able to achieve early launch, and it will help them reduce the number of iterations to reach their goal. “ISRO chairman mentioned in July 2020 that private players will be encouraged by ISRO and we are seeing that it came true today,” he said. Agnikul is building Agnibaan, a rocket that will be capable of carrying up to 100 kg of payload to low Earth orbits up to 700 km with a plug-and-play engine configuration. Agnikul is working to launch Agnibaan by 2022. Subsequently New Space India Limited (NSIL), a government entity under the DOS signed a pact with Pixxel, a satellite-imaging startup to help launch Pixxel’s remote-sensing satellite on an ISRO PSLV rocket in early 2021. “We realize the potential that Pixxel’s earth imaging satellites have to solve some pressing issues of our time and we are looking forward to a positive outcome from this launch,” ISRO’s Sivan said. “We are elated with the fact that India’s first commercial private satellite will now launch on an Indian rocket,” Awais Ahmed, CEO of Pixxel said. Pixxel is building a constellation of earth imaging small satellites that will provide global coverage every 24 hours once fully deployed. The satellites will collect data that will be analysed using AI and ML models to help organisations across sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/space-tech-startups-get-closer-to-launch-with-isro-tie-up/articleshow/79572478.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 5, 2020||Madurai||Project to track traffic violators launched||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, launched Tollscope Phase II project, developed by the Tamil Nadu police to identify traffic violations using artificial intelligence (AI). The project is the brainchild of Sivaganga district superintendent of police, Rohith Nathan R, and former DSP of Devakottai (now DCP Chennai Traffic) Krishnaraj along with other police officials, backed with technical support from a local software company. Automatic number plate recording cameras installed at 15 places in Sivaganga town will help track traffic violators who do not follow helmet rule and pillion rider safety rule. Such violations would be recorded and the owner of the vehicle identified using the RTO database online. After details are generated, e-challan would be uploaded in the server. The vehicle owner will receive an SMS regarding the violation and the fine amount. He can then pay the fine amount online. The project has been developed at a cost of Rs 33 lakhs using the road safety fund. It can identify 3,000 to 5,000 violations. Sources said that this technology could be implemented throughout the state. If it is linked with the toll gates in the highways, 10,000 traffic fatalities could be prevented in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/project-to-track-traffic-violators-launched/articleshow/79574224.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||6 Cong workers held for protest over farm laws in Patan||Palanpur: Six Congress workers were arrested during protest against the new farm laws in Patan town on Friday. The protest which was led by Congress leader Paresh Dhanani, was also in support of the farmers from Punjab and Haryana camping outside Delhi.Dhanani termed the the farm bills by the central government as an attempt to favour the industrialists at the cost of farmers.Congress workers led by Dhanani staged sit-in protest outside the Patan district collectorate. They also submitted a memorandum to the collector Supreet Singh Gulati demanding that the new farm laws be scrapped.Patan superintendent of police Akshayraj Makwana said, “We have arrested six Congress worker from Siddhpur Chowki was they were blocking road. They have been booked under section 188 of the IPC.”Apart from Dhanani, Congress MLA from Siddhpur Chandanji Thakor, Patan MLA Kirit Patel and other office bearers of Congress took part in the protest. “On the one hand the government talks of doubling farmers’ income while the farm income has halved. It is clearly an attempt destroy the farmers,” said Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/6-cong-workers-held-for-protest-over-farm-laws-in-patan/articleshow/79574489.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Madurai||CM lays foundation for Rs 1,296 crore drinking water project for Madurai||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday laid the foundation stone for a Rs 1,296crore project to bring drinking water through pipelines directly from Mullaperiyar dam to Madurai city. When completed by 2023, all 100 wards of the city corporation would have water supply 24x7, he said. The mega drinking water project would ensure that Madurai corporation was not stressed for the next 50 years, he said in the presence of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and ministers S P Velumani, R B Udayakumar and Sellur K Raju among others. The chief minister also dedicated an additional building for the district collectorate, constructed at a cost of Rs 30.19 crore. He said the central and state governments were striving to ensure protected drinking water to people in the cities and also villages. Water supply in the state in 2011 when the AIADMK came to power was 4,900 MLD, which has gone up to 7,600 MLD. Apart from this, work was in progress on 76 comprehensive water schemes. It was proposed to give 40 lakh pipeline connections at a cost of Rs 3,600 crore of which seven lakh had been given till date. When the new scheme, for which the foundation stone was laid, is implemented, an additional 1.1 lakh connections can be given in Madurai, he said. Palaniswami said the government was keeping its promises to the people and implementing schemes, which were not visible only to the eyes of the opposition party, which was always making allegations. He said though 41% of rural students studied in government schools in the state, only six got admitted to medical colleges after passing NEET last year. This year, because of the 7.5 % horizontal reservation given by the state government, 313 government school students got into MBBS, which was another achievement of this government. The ministers said the schemes implemented in Tamil Nadu by the government would result in AIADMK sweeping the next elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-lays-foundation-for-rs-1296-crore-drinking-water-project-for-madurai/articleshow/79574223.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat records 1,510 new Covid cases, 18 deaths in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat, in the 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 1,510 new Covid-19 cases, taking its total number of cases to 2.15 lakh. This was the third consecutive day the state recorded more than 1,500 cases in 24 hours. The state also recorded 18 Covid deaths in this period, taking its death toll so far to 4,049. This was the highest number of deaths in the past four days. The state also reported 1,627 patients being discharged in these 24 hours, the highest number in a single day so far, taking the total number of patients who have recovered to 1.97 lakh. The shares of active, discharged, and deceased patients now are 6.8%, 91.3% and 1.9%, respectively. The number of active patients on Friday was 14,778.  The new cases included 322 from Ahmedabad, 249 from Surat, 174 from Vadodara and 147 from Rajkot districts. Rajkot district crossed the 17,000 cases mark. Ahmedabad district on Friday passed 2,100 deaths, with the last 100 in past eight days, at an average of 12 deaths a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-records-1510-new-cases-18-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79571987.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Open sale of non-veg items scares people in Chhapra||CHHAPRA: Chhapra has no dedicated market for sale of non-vegetarian items. Consequently, meat, chicken and fish shops are running in prohibited areas in the open and mostly at unhygienic places. Even those involved in trade of such items often face the ire of locals as there is no specified place to dump their waste materials. According to an estimate 10-15 quintals of non- vegetarian items are sold in local markets through more than 200 fishermen and meat shops near Sarha railway crossing but there are no facilities, like dustbins for disposal of waste material and residents are annoyed with the foul smell. No meat seller cares to procure license and follow the norms for selling non-vegetarian items. Slaughtering of goats and others are rampant by the meat-sellers without valid license from either the civic body or any authority. Locals said that mutton, fish and chicken are sold at open places in Chhapra town in violation of norms and most of the stalls are located near open drains. “Flesh being kept in the open is a sickening sight and bodies of slaughtered animals must be covered with cloth or behind a curtain, as flesh kept in the open gets contaminated by bacteria which cannot be washed with plain water,” said a local resident Madahv Mishra. Chhapra Municipal Corporation deputy mayor Nagendra Rai said that the civic body is planning to set up a fish market with modern ameneties at Sarkari Bazar to resolve this problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/open-sale-of-non-veg-items-scares-people/articleshow/79571337.cms||H K Verma
December 5, 2020||Patna||Cops on toes as ex-mukhiya among nine killed in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether nine people, including a former mukhiya, were killed in separate incidents in the state in the past 24 hours. Bhagalpur, Madhubani, Rohtas and Nawada districts accounted for two murders each while one person was killed in Begusarai district. Reports reaching the police headquarters said a group of armed criminals shot dead one Rajesh Raman alias Pappu Bhagat, stated to be a former mukhiya of Khagaria’s Bandehra panchayat, at Bhikhanpur in Bhagalpur district on Friday evening. The assailants fired at Bhagat, the husband of incumbent mukhiya Khushboo Kumari when he was walking towards his car parked at a stone’s throw from a meat shop where he had gone with two of his supporters and a relative. He had taken out his licensed pistol and tried to fire, but was hit with a bullet and died on the spot. The deceased’s supporters managed to catch hold of one of the fleeing assailants and assaulted him leading to his death. He was later identified as Ratan Kumar Sah, a resident of Hardiya Jankinagar in Munger district. Police said the former mukhiya had earlier survived a murderous attack last month. He had received bullet injuries in his armpit. Since then he has been staying in Bhagalpur. The slain former mukhiya’s brother-in-law Aditya was accompanying him at the time of the incident. Bhagalpur ASP Puran Kumar Jha said, “The CCTV footage is being obtained to ascertain the identity of the other assailants, who fled the spot. An empty cartridge has been recovered from the spot.” The ASP didn’t rule out the involvement of hired goons in the killing of the ex-mukhiya. In Rohtas, a 35-year-old Lallu Yadav shot dead his cousin Suman Yadav at Awadani Bigha village under Karakat police station on Thursday evening. Suman was attacked when he was returning home at Padasar village from the local market. Later, a mob lynched the assailant Lallu to death on the spot. The SHO of Karakat police station Satyendra Paswan said a dispute over payment of Rs 20,000 is stated to be the reason behind the incident. In Madhubani, one Rajesh Kumar and his wife Renu Devi were killed by a group of people at Godown Tola near Mahua under Ladania police station late on Thursday night. The marauders attacked the couple when they were sleeping. Property dispute is stated to be the reason. A report from Nawada said the bodies of Ashok Rajvanshi and Bachchu Rajvanshi were recovered from Benipur village under Rupau police station on Thursday evening. The victims’ throats were found slit. They were missing since Wednesday. In Begusarai, one Natho Tanti was beaten to death by a group of people at Pannapur village under Matihani police station on Thursday night. The incident is stated to be a fallout of an altercation over the sale of country liquor by one Amresh Tanti at the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-on-toes-as-ex-mukhiya-among-nine-killed-in-state/articleshow/79571261.cms||Ramashankar
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||Three riding a scooter collide with tempo, all dead||PALANPUR: Three persons were killed when the scooter they were riding collided with a loading rickshaw (tempo) opposite Bliss English Medium school in Vadnagar town of Mehsana district on Friday afternoon. The deceased identified as Satyamji Thakor (35) Vasantji Thakor (35) and Lalabhai Rawal (30) were on their way to Visnagar, said police sub-inspector M G Rathod of Vadnagar police station. Rathod said that the deceased frequently commuted to Vadnagar on the scooter. They were all residents of Visnagar. According to police, the scooter riders were at fault as they were travelling in violation of the traffic rules. After post mortem, their bodies were handed over to their relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-riding-a-scooter-collide-with-tempo-all-dead/articleshow/79574513.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kanpur||PAC jawan booked for alleged rape||KANPUR: Kanpur Dehat police booked a Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) jawan on charges of rape after a woman claimed he refused to marry her. The woman, a native of a locality in Mangalpur police station area has been in relationship with the jawan since 2019. The complainant approached Mangalpur police on Thursday to complaint against the PAC jawan at present posted in Ayodhya. The woman in her complaint said she was pursuing her B.A. in 2019, when she had met PAC jawan Sonu Kumar of Malikpur Akaudiya village of the district. The jawan proposed her and they later became friendly. She alleged that the jawan thereafter kept a physical relationship with her promising marriage, but later backtracked from his promise. The police have booked the jawan under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. No arrest has been made so far. “On the complaint of the woman, we have registered a case against the PAC jawan. We are gathering evidence and will decide on further course of action later,” said Inspector Mangalpur police station Amod Kumar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pac-jawan-booked-for-alleged-rape/articleshow/79573393.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Chill and fog to persist for few more days in Bihar: Met||PATNA: Cold weather is getting intense with the onset of foggy conditions and the minimum temperature hovering around 11 degrees C. Weathermen claimed that foggy or hazy conditions along with the chill are likely to persist over the next few days. The weathermen attributed the foggy conditions to a high level of humidity in the lower atmosphere and calm winds. “As per meteorology, foggy conditions are declared at a place if the visibility is less than 1,000 meters and humidity is higher than 90%. Such condition is prevailing at most places in Bihar and it is likely to continue over the next few days as wind speed is quite low, which is averting the dispersal of the moisture,” said Sanjay Kumar, a meteorologist at the Patna met centre. The visibility plunged to 500 meters in Patna in the last 24 hours and the level of humidity was 91% at 8.30 am and 87% at 5.30 pm. The lowest minimum temperature in the state on Friday was 9.6 degrees C at Gaya. “Mist or fog witnessed in most places in the state in the past 24 hours. The visibility in Patna remained at 500 meters for three hours. The wind was calm in Patna. The foggy or misty conditions will subside following increase in wind speed or rainfall,” said Sudhanshu Kumar, an officer at the Patna meteorological centre. Kumar added that no significant change was noticed in the minimum temperature recorded, the maximum temperature dropped by one degree C. Meteorologists attributed the plunge in the day temperature to the fog cover, which is obstructing the solar rays from reaching the lower level of the atmosphere.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chill-and-fog-to-persist-for-few-more-days-met/articleshow/79571152.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Five arrested in Bihar's Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: In a fresh drive against criminals, police arrested five criminals here on Friday. The drive has been initiated by Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti after making a review of the pending cases. Md Afroz and Md Shahrukh Khan, both residents of Ganichak locality under the Majohidpur police station area were arrested in connection with attacking one Md Danish with bombs and lathi blows. Two other accused– Shivji Yadav alias Rajesh Yadav and Shyam Yadav, both brothers and residents of Belari village under the Bath police station area, were arrested in connection with murder of Binodi Yadav of the same village. According to police, an altercation had occurred on January 30 between two warring groups. Binodi, who had received grave injuries in the altercation succumbed to his injuries. Another miscreant, Prem Sagar, a resident of Laluchak locality under the Ishakchak police station area was also arrested in a case related to assault of a sweet shop owner Dipak Kumar Shah in the same locality. Shah had refused to give some items from his shop to Prem without money. The SSP said that the drive has been launched to check crime besides arresting the law violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-arrested-in-bhagalpur/articleshow/79571310.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Doctors warn against women opting for removal of uterus||PATNA: Removal of the uterus at a young age, especially among rural women in Bihar, has become a cause of concern for doctors in Patna, who say they are opting for this procedure as a family planning option or out of an unfounded fear of getting cancer. Several city doctors said they get at least one or two cases every day where women between the ages of 28 and 35 come either to get their uterus removed or with post-removal complications. They warn that the removal of the uterus has severe underlying effects on women’s health. The Patna Menopause Society president Dr Usha Didwania said she gets at least one such case daily. “The women are not aware of the complications which they have to face after the removal of the uterus. Women suffering from leucorrhea or pelvic pain seek uterus removal believing they may get cancer otherwise. I guess such advise comes from quacks. A lot of awareness is needed,” Dr Didwania said. She further said several such women, whom she has interacted with, think the use of uterus is limited to giving birth. “Most of these women get married by the age of 18 to 20, and by the time they reach 28, they have three to four children. Hence they think the use of the uterus is over. Some even remove the uterus as part of family planning, which otherwise can be done by tubectomy,” she said. Removal of the uterus leads to premature menopause which severely impacts a woman’s health. Such women then have to be administered hormones till the natural age of menopause, which ranges between 42 to 55 years. Dr Mukta Agarwal, additional obstetrics and gynaecologist at AIIMS-Patna, said in every OPD she gets, two to three cases are of young women who come to remove their uterus. “We try to counsel them and tell them about the complications. However, in nearly 30% of cases, they get operated outside in other hospitals. There should be an awareness programme for this problem.” Dr Agarwal further said people should understand that uterus is not a vestigial organ and it needs to be preserved. “Once the uterus is removed, the function of ovaries decline and many such women suffer from osteoporosis. It also leads to cardiovascular problems. If there is an infection in the uterus it can be cured with antibiotics, but removal is not the solution.” Noted city gynaecologist Dr Manju Geeta Mishra said the removal of the uterus leads to many problems, including psychological problems, joint pain and urinary tract problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/doctors-warn-against-women-opting-for-removal-of-uterus/articleshow/79571168.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 5, 2020||Patna||December ’21 target for Darbhanga planetarium||DARBHANGA: The new planetarium-cum-science museum at Darbhanga, if officials are to be believed, will be inaugurated by December next year. Work on the science and technology department’s Rs 164 crore planetarium project had started in December 2019. Though the construction work got delayed due to Covid-induced lockdown earlier this year, officials have claimed that around 40% of work has been done. The planetarium is being constructed in an area of around three acres on the premises of Darbhanga Polytechnic College. The design of the planetarium has been prepared by a US-based architectural firm through its Delhi-based office. “Construction of basement and ground floor is over. The first floor is under construction. The planetarium will have 150 seats and the adjoining auditorium will accommodate 300 people. Construction of cafeteria is also over. The facility will be in three shapes – elliptical, spherical and dome.” Executive engineer of building construction department Sanjeet Kumar said science and technology department is in the process of finalising vendor for fixing the equipment in the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/december-21-target-for-darbhanga-planetarium/articleshow/79571233.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
December 5, 2020||Business||Burger King IPO subscribed 157 times||Mumbai: The Rs 810-crore Burger King IPO closed with a subscription of 157 times. This makes it the second-most subscribed offering this year, behind the Mazagon Dock IPO that was subscribed 157.4 times. Happiest Minds IPO, with a subscription figure of 151 times, is at the third spot on the table for most successful maiden offerings this year, industry data showed. The Burger King IPO’s institutional part was subscribed a little over 86 times, while the high net worth investors’ part was subscribed more than 357 times. The retail part was subscribed nearly 69 times. The total number of applications put in the offer was 24.2 lakh. The offering for the domestic franchise for the global fast food company opened on December 2 and had a price band of Rs 59-60 per share. Of the total issue size, Rs 450 crore will accrue to the company. The balance Rs 360 crore will go to one of the existing shareholders of the company, QSR Asia, that’s offloading part of its current stake in the company. Kotak Mahindra Capital, CLSA India, Edelweiss Financial Services and JM Financial managed the IPO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/burger-king-ipo-subscribed-157-times/articleshow/79573728.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||ATM theft attempt foiled, two nabbed||Rajkot: Two ATM thieves were nabbed after they tried to break open an ATM in vain at Diwan Chowk in Junagadh on Thursday night. Police said when the accused, Bilal Ansari (25) and Hardik Solanki (29), tried to break open the ATM, a siren went off, following which the bank manager received an alert and subsequently he alerted the police. “When we rushed to the spot, we found one of the accused lying on the platform of a shopping complex. When we checked the accused, he was revealed as Ansari who was clearly visible in the CCTV footage. Ansari led us to the hideout of Solanki, leading to his arrest,’ said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police. Ansari said that in order to tide over the financial crisis he was going through, he resorted to committing the ATM theft. On Wednesday night, he and Solanki had tried to break open an ATM near Rajkot bus stand, but to no avail.Both Ansari and Solanki will be arrested once they undergo the Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/atm-theft-attempt-foiled-two-nabbed/articleshow/79574505.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Anand Kumar to be expert in KBC||PATNA: Super 30 founder Anand Kumar will be the expert at the Bollywood icon Amitabh Bachchan’s ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati’ show to be telecast on December 7. In 2017 also, Kumar had participated in the KBC and won Rs 25 lakh. Kumar had also helped Bachchan in preparing for his role in ‘Aarakshan’ film. Anand will also be the expert in episodes 61 and 62 to be telecast on December 21 and December 22.Super 30 has been a highly acclaimed programme to nurture 30 students from the underprivileged sections of the society free of cost for the prestigious IIT entrance test. The biopic on Super 30 founder starring Bollywood star Hrithik Roshan was a huge success with eight states declaring it tax free so that more and more youth could benefit from its powerful messaging. On being invited as expert at the KBC, Kumar said it was always a pleasure to be in the company of Bachchan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/anand-kumar-to-be-expert-in-kbc/articleshow/79571206.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||Junagadh SP to hold addl charge of Gir-Somnath||Rajkot: Junagadh district superintendent of police (SP) Ravi Shetty has been directed to hold additional charge of adjoining Gir-Somnath district too.Gir-Somnath SP Rahul Tripathi who had tested positive with Covid-19 had gone under quarantine and in his absence, assistant superintendent of police, Om Prakash Jat, was holding charge of the post. On Wednesday night, ASP Jat also launched a massive crackdown on 11 illegal mining sites operating on the outskirts of Ghatvad and Jamvada villages in the Gir-Somnath region. Cops seized 27 cutters, seven generators and five tractors in the operation.However, the sudden announcement of giving charge to Shetty has raised many an eyebrow and the department was abuzz with the news of Jat’s sudden removal.However, officials pooh-pooh all speculations and claimed that there was nothing mysterious in the announcement.“The ASP did an excellent job of cracking down on the illegal mining sites. We received an order from the DGP office that Junagadh SP should hold the charge of Gir-Somnath as the current SP is quarantined because of Covid-19. The process was initiated 4-5 days ago,” said Maninder Singh Pawar, inspector general of police.Jat conducted the raids after multiple complaints regarding the illegal activities by the villagers had fallen in deaf ears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/junagadh-sp-to-hold-addl-charge-of-gir-somnath/articleshow/79574509.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||11 of Bhistivad charged under GCTOC in Rajkot||RAJKOT: As many as 11 members of Bhistivad gang were booked under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GCTOC) in Rajkot on Friday. Of the gangsters, six were arrested on Friday, four were already lodged in Rajkot Central Jail, while the leader of the Bhistivad gang Aizaz Khiyani has been declared an absconder. The gang has been named after Bhistivad locality of Rajkot from where the gang members come. Of the gangsters, two had allegedly attacked a team of Pradyumannagar police station on Kuvadava Road on Thursday. Those booked under the GCTOC included Aizaz Khiyani, Mirjad Khiyani, Sartaj Khiyani alias Rajan, Majid Junach, Imran Menu, Riyaz Dal, Rizwan Dal, Yasin Kaida, Shahrukh Juneja, Majid Bhanu and Mustafa Khiyani. “We detained Mirjad, Sartaj, Majid, Imran, Majid Bhanu and Mustafa on Friday. Of these accused, Bhanu and Mustafa allegedly attacked the team of Pradyumannagar police station by pelting stones at them. We caught both of them after giving them a chase. After nabbing them, we booked all the other accused under the GCTOC and detained the remaining four of them,” said Manoharsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police, Rajkot west. The accused will be formally be arrested once they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test. There have been 76 offences registered against the Bhistivad gang in the past one decade. The offences range from assault on police, murder, attempt to murder and issuing threats to arms dealing, rioting, criminal intimidation, vandalism and extortion. Aziz has a dozen cases registered against him, followed by Mirjad (6), Sartaj (3), Menu (9), Bhanu (6), Riyaz (6), five each against Rizwan, Yasin and Mustafa and Shahrukh (4). “The property of the accused will be attached and those who have supplied arms and ammunition to the accused will too be arrested,” said Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-of-bhistivad-charged-under-gctoc-in-rajkot/articleshow/79574518.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Bhagalpur: Bird festival to showcase winged guests, explore tourism potential||BHAGALPUR: The historic ‘Silk City’ of Bhagalpur on the banks of Ganga is all set to host a three-day ‘Bird Festival’ from December 11 to 13, which will showcase hundreds of species of migratory birds that make the riverine diaras their temporary home during the winters. The festival is being jointly organised by the state forest department, the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), a wildlife research organization promoting the cause of nature conservation across the country, and the Mandar Nature Club, a Bhagalpur-based conservation organization. The organisers claimed that the bird festival is aimed at extensive study of birds and birdlife, their natural habitat and taking steps for their conservation. The focus will also be on exploring the potential of the region as a destination for bird tourism. Arvind Mishra, environmentalist and founder of Mandar Nature Club told this newspaper on Friday that the three-day bird festival would include identification of different species of birds, threatened species, natural habitat, ecology, and their conservation and rescue. “There will be a public discussion on conservation of birds, bird- watching by five to seven groups of environmentalists, including river front monitoring staff, Garud Saviours, NCC cadets, Ganga Prahrees, college students and ornithologists. A digital show on regional and migratory birds and postal stamp exhibition on birds will also be organised during the event,” Mishra said. He added, “Bird watching by environmentalists and experts will be held at different sites, including Jagatpur lake, Ganga river course, especially the Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary, the 50 kilometers stretch of river Ganga from Sultanganj to Kahalgaon, Kadwa Kosi diara, Sundervan (forest area in Bhagalpur), Jaiprakash Udyan and university areas.” Mishra further claimed that the region has a vast potential to promote bird tourism as it is becoming ideal habitat for several migratory birds due to water-bodies, green vegetation and clean environment of Gangetic diara areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bird-festival-to-showcase-winged-guests-explore-tourism-potential/articleshow/79571388.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: After poll defeat, RLSP finds itself at crossroads||PATNA: Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) chief Upendra Kushwaha has come under tremendous pressure of the party’s rank and file to come out of the “political wilderness” in which it presently finds itself, and also decide as to with which of the two major formations – NDA and the Grand Alliance – it wishes to join hands. Prior to the recently concluded assembly elections in the state, Kushwaha had walked out of the RJD-led Grand Alliance and formed the six-party Grand Secular Democratic Front (GSDF) comprising Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM. In December 2018, Kushwaha had quit the NDA and joined the Grand Alliance before the 2019 parliamentary elections, despite the fact that he was Union minister. In the state assembly elections, the AIMIM had won five of the 22 seats it contested. However, the RLSP had failed to open its account despite fielding its candidates in 104 seats. The stark reality of political wilderness facing the RLSP became visible at the two-day meeting of the party held at the Dipali Green Garden hall here on December 2 and 3 to review the causes behind the defeat in the assembly elections. In his address to the participants, Kushwaha himself admitted the glaring fact that the party had been defeated in the assembly polls badly. Kushwaha also maintained that the formation of the GSDF was delayed. “Had the alliance been formed a couple of months before the elections, the result would have been different,” he had said. The RLSP functionaries who addressed the review meeting said Kushwaha should decide early on the next course of action, especially with regard to the choice of the alliances. RLSP spokesman Bhola Sharma said around 100 functionaries addressed the two-day review meeting. The participants included the national and state office-bearers of the party, as well as the party’s candidates who fought the assembly elections. “The second review meeting of the party will be held soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/after-poll-defeat-rlsp-finds-itself-at-crossroads/articleshow/79571098.cms||Abhay Singh
December 5, 2020||Patna||Nitish government faces friendly fire over rising crime in Bihar||PATNA: The Nitish Kumar government has come under friendly fire from ally BJP over the state’s rising crime graph, giving the opposition parties a handy weapon to hit back at the state government. The Bettiah MP and BJP state president, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, on Friday took to social media to raise his concerns over the state’s law and order situation and stated that he would talk to the DGP to apprise him of the “ground reality”. The CM holds the home portfolio. “People are putting up road blockades and picketing people’s representatives to express their anger over rising incidents of burglaries in the Champaran region. I came across such a situation near Semra village during my trip from Bettiah to Patna on Thursday,” Jaiswal stated. The Bettiah MP also complained that there has been no action in connection with a murder case in Raxaul, which he had brought to the notice of the SP concerned. Jaiswal shared some pictures showing people’s angry reaction to cops for their failure to check the incidents of crime in the region. The senior BJP leader’s post created a flutter in both political as well as administrative circles in the state. The opposition parties were quick to grab the issue. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said, “It’s amazing that Dr Jaiswal wants to meet the DGP to discuss the law and order issue. His party has two deputy CMs in the government. Shouldn’t he talk to the CM instead of the DGP?” The Congress leader said the BJP state president’s reaction to the poor law and order situation is nothing but a ‘pakhand’ to deceive the people. “Sharing something on social media is not the solution to the problem. People’s lives have been put at risk. There is no law and order worth its name,” he added. Reacting to the BJP chief’s statement, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “It’s a political gimmick of BJP. It’s nothing but a part of a well-knit strategy of the saffron party to create pressure on CM Nitish Kumar.” Tiwari further said, “The CM is holding the home portfolio. The BJP earlier wanted to keep the home department with itself (read one of the two deputy CMs), which Nitish didn’t allow. The CM should make an official statement on the law and order situation.” The ruling JD(U), however, didn’t find anything wrong in the BJP president’s statement. JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok said, “It’s good that the people’s concerns have been brought to the notice of the authorities. The government will act as per the provisions of law.” Though top police officials preferred to keep mum and avoided reacting to the BJP state president’s statement, authoritative sources in the state police headquarters said senior police officials were working on implementing concrete measures to check crime. The sources said the CM is likely to review the law and order situation within a week, the second one after being sworn in as CM for the fourth consecutive term. Law and order issue was a prominent issue during the recently held state assembly polls. The statistics released by the state crime record bureau recently for 2019 also hinted at a rise in crime under some heads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-govt-faces-friendly-fire-over-rising-crime/articleshow/79570945.cms||Ramashankar
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Couple kidnapped, thrashed by four of girl’s family rescued; two held||RAJKOT: A couple that had married against wishes of the girl’s family was abducted by the girl’s uncles and cousin and thrashed in Metoda village of Rajkot on Thursday night. Police have detained two of the four accused and sent them for Covid-19 testing. According to case details, Udai Chotaliya and Nidhi Bhalodi, both aged 25, were kidnapped allegedly by Kishor Bhalodi, Paresh Bhalodi, Ashwin Bhalodi, all three of them uncles of Nidhi, and Hardik Bhalodi, Nidhi’s cousin. Nidhi had married Chotaliya against the wishes of her family in November 2019. “On Thursday evening, the accused went to Nidhi’s house in Ashapura Nagar in Hudco Quarters on Kothariya Road and told her that her mother was taken ill. They had come to pick her up, but without Chotaliya,” said J D Zala, inspector with Bhaktinagar police station. “When Nidhi refused to leave her house without Chotaliya, the accused tried to force Nidhi to come with them. A scuffle ensued, Chotaliya’s mother Meena got injured. The accused forced Nidhi and Chotaliya in their car and drove them to Metoda village on Kalavad Road on the outskirts of Rajkot,” added Zala. Metoda is about 15 km away from Ashapura Nagar. Meanwhile, Meena called up the police and gave them the description of the accused. The police checked the CCTV footage of the crime in which the accused were clearly visible. “We traced the accused to Metoda village on the basis of their cellphone location and rescued the couple. We have nabbed Hardik and Ashwin,” said S N Jadeja, sub-inspector with Bhaktinagar police station, adding that Nidhi and Chotaliya sustained minor injuries as they were beaten up by the accused with fists and kicks. Both Hardik and Ashwin will be formally arrested once they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test, said Jadeja, adding that search was on for the absconding accused Kishor and Paresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-kidnapped-thrashed-by-four-of-girls-family-rescued-two-held/articleshow/79574485.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||619 more test positive for Covid-19 in Bihar||PATNA: The state’s Covid-19 caseload increased to 2,37,968 on Friday with 619 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Officially, six fresh deaths took the state’s toll to 1,287. However, with 2,31,108 people recuperating from the virus so far, active cases in the state stood at 5,571 on Friday. As per the health department, two more people have succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the district’s toll to 334. Saran, Jehanabad, Aurangabad and Sheikhpura districts recorded one death each on Friday. At AIIMS-Patna, three deaths were recorded on Thursday. The victims were a 35-year-old man from of Bishai village in Saran, a 55-year-old man from Jalalgarh in Purnia and a 72-year-old man from B H Colony in Agamkuan. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 19 patients were admitted to the hospital and 18 discharged on Friday. Those admitted were from different localities of Patna like Bhattacharya Road, Vijay Nagar in Rukanpura, Rajendra Nagar, Boring Road and Kankarbagh. Of 175 patients in the hospital, 61 were in ICU, including 27 on ventilator and nine on high-flow nasal canula. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any fresh death on Friday. While four patients were admitted, two were discharged from the hospital on Friday. Of 619 new Covid-19 cases, Patna accounted for 211. With this, the district’s tally has risen to 42,951. However, with 40,590 recoveries and 334 deaths, there are 2,027 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Gopalganj recorded 64 fresh cases, Purnia 31, Muzaffarpur 20, Banka 20, East Champaran 19, Rohtas 14 and Saran 14. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 605 people have recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.12%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/619-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-bihar/articleshow/79571088.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Online hospital management service launched in Patna||PATNA: The district administration on Friday launched a new online hospital management service for government hospitals of Patna. Based on the Sanjivani Plus software, this system will have the facility of not only registering the patients reaching the hospitals, but also providing online details like the doctor’s name, disease, investigation report, medicines prescribed and others. District magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi said the pilot project was introduced at Guru Gobind Singh Hospital, Patna City and community health centre, Phulwarisharif. Sanjivani Plus portal registration counters were also set up at both hospitals. The DM said the functioning of this system would be reviewed by the district administration and the report would be sent to the Bihar State Health Society for further improvement in the software, if required. He said in the next phase and after getting directions from the BSHS, this online system would be introduced in other hospitals, including the primary health centres. Besides providing easy and expeditious hospital management service, this online portal would have transparency regarding the treatment being offered by the hospital and the patient himself may view the details like consultation in the OPD and admission for indoor treatment. “An important advantage of this new system is that it would help in assessing the nature of diseases or symptoms among the patients of particular localities of the district in different times of the year,” the DM said. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari also attended the launch of the new online portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-hospital-management-service-launched-in-patna/articleshow/79571133.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Girl commits suicide at Begusarai short stay home||PATNA: A 17-year-old girl inmate of a short stay home in Begusarai district allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in a room of the facility on Thursday. The victim, who hailed from Sheikhpura district, had been staying in the government-run facility at Nirala Nagar since September. The victim’s relatives alleged that she was being tortured at the short stay home. SHO of Ratanpur police outpost Sudha Kumari said the police broke open the room of the stay home only to find the girl hanging from the ceiling fan. The police team reached the spot around 1pm. Begusarai Sadar SDPO Rajan Sinha said the victim’s body has been sent to the sadar hospital for post-mortem. Earlier, an inquest of the body was conducted under the supervision of a magistrate, he added. The SDPO said the girl’s relatives have already been informed about the incident. “The postmortem will be conducted under the supervision of a medical board as per the NHRC guidelines,” he added. An investigating officer quoting the in-charge of the stay home for girls told the police that the victim had her dinner around 12 midnight and then she went to her room. Later, other girls noticed that the room was locked from inside. “We immediately informed the police. She was found hanging from the ceiling fan,” the investigating officer said. Altogether 10 girl inmates were staying in the facility. The victim’s father, a resident of Barbigha police station area in Sheikhpura district, alleged that his daughter was not allowed to contact the family over the phone and was harassed. She was lodged in the facility after eloping from the house. The locals claimed that several inmates had earlier escaped from the facility. The police, however, claimed that a CCTV camera has been installed at the entrance gate of the stay home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-commits-suicide-at-begusarai-short-stay-home/articleshow/79571295.cms||Ramashankar
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Submit information on body-worn cameras for traffic cops, says HC||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to file a detailed affidavit on how long it would take to procure the 200 body-worn cameras for the traffic police and when they would be actually made available to them. While hearing two suo motu PILs (No. 5/2016 and No. 7/2019) where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote further asked Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to inform the court on the time to be taken to set up 86 traffic booths at major squares to regulate traffic. The civic body was further told to submit details about the number of cameras installed at all squares and how many of them are functional. The state home department had accorded an administrative approval for procuring 200 such cameras for constables on duty. It had issued a government resolution (GR) on November 5 that the equipment would be purchased through the office of inspector general of police (IGP). An appropriate tender process would be followed and cameras would be made available to the commissioner of police (CP), the government had informed in an affidavit. The proposal for purchasing such cameras was first submitted by the DCP (traffic) Vikram Sali who informed the HC that those would be effective in monitoring constables’ performance and also protect them from false allegations/complaints. He stated that such cameras would be provided to traffic cops along with other beat marshals and those in police stations with a view to ensure minimization of obstruction in discharge of official duties and also to maintain transparency and accountability. In the last hearing, a bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice (retired) Ravi Deshpande had directed the home and finance departments to make their positions clear on police commissioner Amitesh Kumar’s proposal for procuring 1,000 body-worn cameras for the traffic police. The CJ had even stated that if the experiment is successful, it could be replicated across the state. The government then informed that it would examine amending the Motor Vehicles Act, 1998, for stringent action against offenders attacking traffic cops on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/submit-information-on-body-worn-cameras-for-traffic-cops-says-hc/articleshow/79571990.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 5, 2020||Patna||Cargo terminal to come up at Gaya airport soon||GAYA: In a bid to develop Gaya international airport as an export-import hub, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) has given approval for construction of a cargo terminal at the airport. At present, the cargo carrying capacity of around two tonnes in flights being operated from the Gaya airport remains unutilised, incurring financial loss to the airlines concerned. The cargo terminal will enhance the cargo carrying capacity of the aircrafts, which in turn will generate revenue for the airlines and also boost trade of local products in the international market. It would pave the way for export of several local products like tilkut of Gaya, handloom and khadi clothes of Manpur (Gaya), Muzaffarpur’s shahi litchi, Madhubani paintings and other food products to the international market. On Thursday, several measures like increasing international flight operations throughout the year, commencing more domestic flights for Bengaluru and Kolkata (apart from the daily flight being operated now for Delhi), land acquisition for runway extension, removal of encroachments from airport land and others were discussed at the meeting of Airport Advisory Committee. Gaya MP Vijay Kumar, who is the chairman of the advisory committee, presided over the meeting. Gaya airport director Dilip Kumar said, “To start cargo service from here, a high-tech terminal will be constructed. AAI has given approval to the project.” “After the cargo service starts, Gaya can be developed as a hub of export-import of different products. Not only it will boost export, but local traders can also import their products, which have good demand here in local market,” he said. The land acquisition process for runway extension is long-pending. There is a proposal to expand the existing 7,500 feet length of runway to 9,000 feet. The width has also to be expanded to 15 metres from the existing 45 metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cargo-terminal-to-come-up-at-gaya-airport-soon/articleshow/79571362.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||Sensex breaches 45k for 1st time on foreign fund flows||Mumbai: The global liquidity deluge that has been taking stock indices around the world to new highs lifted the sensex on Friday above the 45k mark for the first time in its history as foreign funds continued to pour money into the domestic market. The sensex went past the milestone in opening trades and, after briefly dipping below that level, rallied to end 447 points higher at 45,080 — a record closing level. The day’s rally lifted investors’ wealth to a record level too, with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 179 lakh crore. Friday’s gains came on the back of the RBI’s dovish policy statement, although the central bank kept the interest rate steady and hiked its estimated rate of inflation. The rally was also helped by global factors. End-of-the-session BSE data showed that foreign funds had a net buying of Rs 2,970 crore. According to HDFC Securities head (retail research) Deepak Jasani, Asian shares scaled a record on Friday on growing prospects of a large US economic stimulus package. “European markets edged slightly higher too on Friday as investors monitor prospects of a US stimulus package and a last-minute Brexit trade deal. The MSCI’s emerging market currency index stood at 2 1/2-year high, having gained more than 10% from its March trough,” Jasani wrote in a post-market note. In the medium term, a host of global and local factors helped the sensex recover from a multi-year low at 25,640 points on March 24 this year (just when the Covid-induced pandemic started spreading in the country) to Friday’s record close. These factors also attracted a record amount of foreign money into the country in November. FPI inflows stood at Rs 62,782 crore for November, a finance ministry release noted. That is three times the Rs 22,490-crore figure clocked in the year-ago period. The strong buying by foreign funds more than offset the Rs 31,500-crore net selling by mutual funds, official data showed. On the global front, the US Presidential election verdict and positive news flows with respect to Covid vaccine development led to global risk assets rallying over the past month, a note from SBI Mutual Fund said. “Positive data with respect to vaccine development remained the key trigger as markets started to price in an earlier resumption of normal economic activity,” the note said. Domestically, a large number of leading companies showed strong growth during the July-September quarter, though a large part of this growth came from cutting costs drastically. A sharp 23.9% economic contraction during the April-June quarter and then a better-than-expected 7.5% de-growth in the last quarter also lifted investor sentiment on Dalal Street, market players said. Estimates by several top analysts and brokers that the Indian economy could show a low double-digit growth in fiscal 2022, after a single-digit fall in fiscal 2021, enthused investors. In future, the rate of recovery of the Indian economy is expected to take the market higher. “The Indian growth story continues to expand as is demonstrated by the trends in FPI, FDI and corporate bond market flows that indicate and underline the beliefs of investors in the strength and resilience of Indian economy,” the finance ministry note said. “Investment sentiment in the Indian economy has been buoyed by the frequent and active intervention of the government despite being hit by a worldwide pandemic,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-breaches-45k-for-1st-time-on-foreign-fund-flows/articleshow/79573689.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Patna||Railways extends run of two more special trains||PATNA: Railways has further extended the run of at least two pairs of special trains till December 31 to cater to the needs of people travelling to Ahmedabad and Tata Nagar from Muzaffarpur and Chhapra respectively Railways has already extended the run of about 98 pairs of special trains either originating from or passing through the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) till December 31. ECR chief public relations officer ( CPRO ) Rajesh Kumar said, “The Muzaffapur–Ahmedabad weekly special train ( 05269/05270 ) running via Hajipur–Sonepur–Siwan route will now run till December 31 . The special train will leave Muzaffarpur every Thursday at 9.20 pm and reach Ahmedabad on Saturday morning at 7.40 am . On its return, it will leave Ahmedabad every Saturday at 6 pm and reach Muzaffarpur on Monday morning at 3.58 am.” Similarly, Tata Nagar–Chhapra special train ( 08181/08182 ) will now run till December 31 . This special train will leave Tata Nagar every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday at 9.25 pm and reach Chhapra next day at 4.20 pm . On its return, it will leave Chhapra every Wednesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday at 12.30 pm and reach Tata Nagar next day at 6.20 am, the CPRO said . “Railways is strictly following the Covid-19 advisory issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and Railway Board, while allowing passengers to undertake journey by special trains,” the CPRO added. Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association secretary Shoaib Quraishi has demanded that railways should restore the stoppage of Patna–Lok Manya Tilak Kurla special train ( 03201/03202 ) at Sadisopur station falling under the Danapur division of ECR . “Railways has issued a notification withdrawing its stoppage at Sadisopur from December 4,” he said adding, “This train was given stoppage at Sadisopur for the past 14 years to facilitate cancer patients of the area to travel to Mumbai.” Besides, the association has also urged the railways to immediately restore running of Patna–Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction MEMU ( 03229/03230 ) and Patna- Jhjaha MEMU ( 03213/03214 ) to fulfil the needs of common people as well as for those commuting daily on these two routes. It may be recalled that railways has partially restored running of several pairs of MEMU trains on Patna– Gaya , Patna– Islampur , Patna– Mokama , Patna – Rajgir and Patna – Sasaram routes on the demand of people, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-extends-run-of-two-more-special-trains/articleshow/79571157.cms||Kumod Verma
December 5, 2020||Patna||Bhagwat reaches city to attend RSS meeting||PATNA: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday arrived here to attend a meeting of his organisation’s Akhil Bhartiya Karyakari Mandal (ABKM) on December 5 and 6. It is for the first time that the ABKM’s region-wise meeting is being held in Patna. The ABKM meeting, which will discuss important political issues and policy matters, would be held at the Keshav Vidya Mandir located on the Mircha-Mirchi road in Patna City area. “From the Patna airport, Bhagwat straightway drove to the Keshav Vidya Mandir where he was accorded a warm welcome by the RSS senior volunteers of Bihar and Jharkhand. Bhagwat later reviewed the preparations being made by the local swayamsevaks for the ABKM meeting,” the RSS Prant Prachar Pramukh of South Bihar Rajesh Kumar Pandey told TOI on Friday. Besides Bhagwat, other top RSS functionaries who arrived the state capital on Friday to attend the vital ABKM meeting are its sarkaryawah (national general secretary) Bhaiyya Ji Joshi, four sah-sarkaryawahs (joint national general secretaries) – Suresh Soni, Dattatreya Hosbale, Manmohan Vaidya and Mukund Jee. “At the meeting, Bhagwat and Joshi will also review the progress achieved by the RSS in north-east region which comprises three ‘prants’ of Bihar and Jharkhand. They will also discuss the RSS’s future strategy for its expansion in the region,” a senior RSS functionary told TOI. “As per its style of functioning, the RSS holds its crucial ABKM meeting around Diwali every year. The organization reviews its works done in the previous year and also makes plan for the next year at the meeting. “This year’s ABKM meeting was scheduled to be held at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh, but it could not be held due to Covid-19 pandemic. In the changed scenario due to the pandemic, the RSS decided to hold the meeting region-wise, instead of all-India level at one venue,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagwat-reaches-city-to-attend-rss-meeting/articleshow/79570964.cms||Madan Kumar
December 5, 2020||Patna||More airlines to operate from D’bhanga soon: Min||PATNA: JD(U) general secretary and MLC Sanjay Kumar Jha on Friday claimed that Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri has assured him about commencement of operations by public sector carrier Air India and few other private airlines from Darbhanga airport. Jha had met the Union aviation minister in New Delhi on Friday. “I met Puriji to apprise him of issues pertaining Darbhanga airport. Always kind, he assured that Air India will soon start flights from the airport and other private airlines will follow suit. With the competition that’ll follow, fares will stabilise,” Jha tweeted on Friday. Darbhanga airbase is presently handling three flights of SpiceJet to Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai daily under Centre’s UDAN, the Centre’s regional air connectivity scheme. As per the data shared by the Twitter handle of Darbhanga airport, the airport is handling around 1,040-1,080 passengers per day. Belonging to Indian Air Force, Darbhanga airport has a runway of 9000ft and six check-in counters and two aprons. Jha, who also hails from Mithilanchal region, was instrumental in convincing the Centre to commence flight operations from Darbhanga airbase. Jha, former state water resources minister, met the Union aviation minister on several occasions in the past to hold deliberation on commencement of flight operations from Darbhanga. The foundation stone for the civil enclave was laid by the union minister and CM Nitish Kumar on December 24, 2018. Flight operations from the airbase had commenced on November 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-airlines-to-operate-from-dbhanga-soon-min/articleshow/79571082.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||‘Report on corp in banking is by a panel, not RBI’s view or decision’||Mumbai: Despite ignoring high inflation for now, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das was adamant that it remains a top priority. Das added he is continuing with the accommodative stance as he sees a short-term window, when food prices come down during winter, for the government to address supply side issues and tame inflation. In his first press interaction after the pandemic, he spoke on various policy issues... Is the RBI differentiating between granting bank licences to corporates and NBFCs owned by corporates? It is a report by an internal working group (IWG) of the RBI. It should not be seen as the RBI’s point of view or decision. The IWG had two external members and has acted independently. The RBI has not taken any decision on this. Our approach is consultative. After receiving comments, we will take a considered decision. In bank resolution, has the RBI stance on bondholders of weak banks changed from the past? We take a decision first in the best interest of depositors — that is the RBI’s paramount responsibility. All our actions are within the legal framework and as per regulatory guidelines. Since both cases (Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank) are currently sub judice, I would not like to elaborate further. There is no fixed template as the situation is different from bank to bank. Is the worst yet to come on bad loans? We have made our internal estimates and the financial stability report will be released in the last week of December 2020, where we will spell out our assessment of non-performing assets. In the last report, we had given a scenario — compared to that, the economy has recovered much faster than anticipated at that time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/report-on-corp-in-banking-is-by-a-panel-not-rbis-view-or-decision/articleshow/79573824.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||‘Banks must invest more in IT systems’||Mumbai: A day after the RBI asked HDFC Bank to halt digital initiatives and credit card sales, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said that banks need to invest more in information technology to ensure that customers are not put to inconvenience. Explaining the unprecedented action against the country’s largest private lender, Das said that there have been repeated lapses by the bank. “There have been previous cases of such issues with HDFC Bank. We cannot put thousands and lakhs of customers who are using digital banking into difficulty for hours together, especially when we are giving so much of emphasis on digital banking,” he said. Das said that if banks want to retain their competitiveness in the coming years, technology and robustness of IT system would be the key. “Banks need to invest more in their technology and strengthen all their systems so that public confidence is maintained,” he said. On the problems faced by SBI’s Yono mobile app on Thursday, Das said that the RBI would look into it. Some analysts feel that the glitches in HDFC Bank’s system are an outcome of legacy systems. Bankers say that digital channels have moved from being ‘good to have’ services to the mainstay of their service delivery. For HDFC Bank, over 95% of transactions take place through mobile and internet banking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-must-invest-more-in-it-systems/articleshow/79574037.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||Govt may set aside Rs 50k cr for vaccine: UBS||Rupali Mukherjee & Partha Sinha | TNN Mumbai: The government is expected to allocate at least Rs 50,000 crore in the fiscal 2022 Budget for rolling out Covid-19 vaccines in the country, according to a report by UBS. The speed of a vaccine rollout and its impact on consumer confidence will be the key driver of the pace of India’s economic recovery, it said. As the spread of the virus is contained and the economy opens up, UBS analysts expect India’s GDP growth rate to jump to 11.5% in FY22, from an estimated 10.5% de-growth in FY21. India’s GDP contracted by 7.5% between July and September, compared to the same quarter a year before, and the possibility of an effective vaccine rolling out soon has buoyed hopes of an improved pace of economic recovery. “We expect a bounce-back in growth in FY22E (estimated) as a vaccine may improve confidence in the economy and the willingness to spend and invest before herd immunity is fully achieved,” the UBS report said. In fiscal 2021, the government had allocated Rs 69,000 crore for the healthcare sector, before the Covid pandemic pummelled the economy. And the projected extra funds for the healthcare sector, to limit the negative impact of the virus on the economy, is likely to see India’s Budget allocation to this important segment of the industry go above the 1.5% level next year from 1.3% in the current year. “We believe the government will need to do the heavy lifting on providing vaccines for the larger population, even though upper income households might prefer to rely on the private healthcare network,” the UBS analysts wrote. “Also, as seen globally, the preference will likely be to prioritise frontline healthcare workers as well as vulnerable people in the early days of the programme (we understand priority lists of individuals are being prepared in various states). India’s public health expenditure was only 1.3% of the GDP in FY20, way below peers. Our estimates indicate that the government will need to allocate an additional $6.5 billion (about Rs 50,000 crore) towards the public healthcare budget in FY22.” Experts also feel that while four vaccines are currently the frontrunners globally, in India the ones manufactured by AstraZeneca and Novavax, which require standard cold chain infrastructure with temperatures between 2- 8 degrees Celsius, would be more suitable. Other vaccines, including US ones Pfizer-BioNtech and Moderna, which use the messengerRNA technology platform, are more expensive and difficult to store and distribute. While lack of transparency will be a challenge for Russia’s Sputnik V, experts say. Along with the availability of vaccines, the effective deployment and distribution would also matter a lot, the report said. One of the reasons which could hinder the progress is believed to be India’s limited experience of adult vaccination programmes. Sporadic immunisation for adults does occur with tetanus, pneumococcal, influenza and hepatitis vaccines, as also yellow fever vaccine for some international travellers. Some of the main risks to effective deployment are logistics during the peak summer months, hiring & training of vaccinators, elections in populous states and accurate tracking of individuals that have been vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-may-set-aside-rs-50k-cr-for-vaccine-ubs/articleshow/79573969.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
December 5, 2020||Rajkot||Undertrial prisoner hangs self||Rajkot: An undertrial prisoner hanged himself in Bhuj Central Jail on Thursday.Police said the deceased, Kanti Koli (30), had used a rope to hang himself from the ceiling of the toilet. “Two prisoners spotted Koli while he was in the process of hanging himself. They rushed to his rescue and cut the rope. Koli was rushed to GK General Hospital in Bhuj, where he breathed his last shortly after admission,” said an official from Bhuj A division police station. Koli, a native of Sangnara village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district, was lodged in the jail in a rape case of a minor girl whom he had allegedly abducted. “We are going to record the statements of Koli’s family members to get a clue about the crime. Koli was sent to jail on November 25,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/undertrial-prisoner-hangs-self/articleshow/79574498.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Madurai||Kazhagam will rule in 2021, says EPS, in clear message to BJP||Madurai: The BJP is yet to formally confirm that electoral ties with the ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu would continue for the forthcoming assembly election. But chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday not only indicated his party’s keenness to cement the pact for the 2021 assembly election as well but also asserted his party’s seniority in the alliance. When reporters in Madurai asked the CM about BJP leaders’ recent statements claiming they would come to power in 2026, he said, “I declared with Amit Shah beside me that it would be the rule of the Kazhagam (AIADMK) in 2021, we do not know who will be there or what will happen in 2026.’’ As for Rajinikanth’s political plans, Palaniswami said he would prefer to wait for the actor to launch his party before offering any comments. “I will comment on actor Rajinikanth’s move to launch a political party after he registers it. Any comments about it made by the deputy chief minister are his own,’’ he told reporters in response to questions in Sivaganga. The CM was briefing reporters after completing his review of the Covid-19 situation in the district. Asked about DMK leader A Raja’s challenge to debate with him on who was more corrupt, the CM said Raja was convicted and imprisoned for corruption, that too when DMK’s ally, the Congress, was in power at the Centre. “It did not happen when the BJP came to power, we will wait for the appeal in the 2G case,” he said. It was a case of corruption in tenders wherein they were given to people of their choice without following any rule. But in Tamil Nadu now, all tenders are transparent and anyone can register their names online, he said, adding that DMK president M K Stalin was aware of these facts but still making false allegations. The CM also said the recommendations to bring seven communities under the common name of Devendrakula Vellalar would be made to the central government. This was a long-pending demand of these seven communities. A committee was constituted to study the demand on March 4, 2019. These communities would continue to enjoy the benefits they get now, he said. The CM said they were exploring the possibilities of expanding the graphite industry in Sivaganga. Palaniswami said the long-awaited Rs 14,000 crore Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundaru project, which would enhance agriculture in the region, would be initiated in January when the foundation stone would be laid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/kazhagam-will-rule-in-2021-says-eps-in-clear-message-to-bjp/articleshow/79574226.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Zydus drug gets nod for third phase trials||AHMEDABAD: Zydus Cadila on Friday announced that the company has received an approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to begin the phase-III clinical trials with its biological therapy — Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b (PegiHep) — in Covid-19 patients. PegiHep is an approved drug and is being re-purposed for the treatment of Covid-19. Slated to commence during December, the trials will be conducted on 250 patients across 20-25 centres in India. The Ahmedabad-based healthcare major had completed the phase-2 clinical trial last month. According to the company, the second phase trials indicated that this biological drug had beneficial impact on the patient suffering from moderate Covid-19 disease by reducing their viral load, helping in better disease management such as reduced duration of oxygen support. “Moreover, a single dose therapy will improve compliance and also make it highly affordable for patients,” the company added. “The results of phase-II study has shown the potential to reduce virus titres when given earlier in the disease. Our efforts are to look at possible treatment options to fight Covid-19, which are safe and can be administered easily as well as reduce the disease burden,” said Dr. Sharvil Patel, managing director, Cadila Healthcare Ltd, the flagship company of Zydus Group. Zydus is also conducting a phase-II trial of this drug in Mexico. It is also working with the United State Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to open an investigational new drug (IND) application for pegylated interferon alpha-2b in order to initiate appropriate clinical trials in the US. Apart from this, Zydus has also completed the phase-II human clinical trials of its vaccine candidate-- ZyCov-D--for Covid-19 and its results are currently analysed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-biological-drug-gets-dcgi-nod/articleshow/79571999.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||UK selects Visakhapatnam for ‘climate resilient cities’ project||VISAKHAPATNAM: The UK government has selected Vizag under a ‘climate resilient cities’ initiative. Vizag is one the five cities from across the country handpicked for the project. Under the initiative, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has preliminary zeroed in on Madhurawada area to implement a comprehensive project on underground drainage system improvement and water recycling and reuse. According to GVMC officials, the UK government will extend technical support for the project, including in preparation of feasibility reports, detailed project reports, capacity building and may also suggest the suitable financial modalities for the project. Speaking to TOI, GVMC superintending engineer (Smart City) M Vinay Kumar said that the project is still in the conceptualisation stage. “UK would primarily extend technical support and expertise for the project,” said Kumar. British deputy high commissioner to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana discussed the initiative with GVMC Commissioner G Srijana and other officials in a virtual meeting on Thursday. It was learnt that a team from UK visited the city around three months ago for preliminary discussions regarding the project. Earlier, Visakhapatnam was picked by the US government to be developed it into a ‘smart city’, during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s US visit back in 2014, alongside Ajmer and Allahabad. Consequently, the state government inked a memorandum of understanding with the US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) in 2016 for the latter providing project planning, infrastructure development, feasibility studies and capacity building for Vizag Smart City. A delegation from Andhra Pradesh, including several people’s representatives from Vizag city, the then GVMC commissioner, VUDA vice-chairman and other officials visited the USA in February 2016. The visit was sponsored by the United States Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) as part of the ‘Smart Solutions for Smart Cities Reverse Trade Mission’. The delegation studied the best practices of US cities to adapt them in designing Vizag Smart City in Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/uk-selects-vizag-for-climate-resilient-cities-project/articleshow/79571996.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Cops made selective disclosures: Pinjra Tod activist||NEW DELHI: Pinjra Tod member and student activist Devangana Kalita, through her counsel on Friday, alleged that police had made “selective disclosures” in the chargesheet against her for an “insidious prosecution”. Kalita’s counsel Adit S Pujari made the submissions before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat while seeking bail in an Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case against her. Referring to the allegation that Kalita and another activist, Natasha Narwal, were instrumental in instigating a crowd of 300 women, who came from Jahangirpuri to Jafrabad to start violence, he argued that the prosecution had placed on record incomplete chats in its WhatsApp group as a part of the chargesheet. The counsel also played video footage to demonstrate that a truck unloading stones and rubble was never made a part of the investigation in the northeast Delhi violence. The case against both women was termed to be different from other accused persons. Pujari, referring to the screenshots of the WhatsApp chats of the group, said, “Police deliberately hid messages on WhatsApp chats in their chargesheet. There was selective disclosure.” The lawyer pointed out that Kalita, being Hindu, participating in the protest, indicated that it was a secular protest. Pujari said the prosecution’s case was that these women came allegedly armed with acid bottles and chilli powder and were instigated by Kalita and others to cause violence. However, he contended that the movement of the bus with the women protesters was being closely monitored by the police. He said that the messages that could show that the stone-pelting incident had started at Maujpur had been suppressed in the documents filed on record. Referring to a message in the group stating that stone pelting had almost stopped and the situation was under control, Pujari stressed that it was in response to another message talking about stone pelting at Maujpur. He also submitted that the prosecution had chosen to not place on record the messages that allegedly related to pro-CAA protests. “There are actual videos of trucks bringing and unloading stones in Jafrabad. That is not being investigated,” he argued. “A protest is not a conspiracy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-made-selective-disclosures-pinjra-tod-activist/articleshow/79571998.cms||Aamir Khan
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Kanhargaon is state’s 50th wildlife sanctuary||Nagpur: In yet another green decision taken by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the 16th meeting of the state wildlife board (SWBL) headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced Kanhargaon in Chandrapur district as a wildlife sanctuary along with 10 conservation reserves (CRs). This will be the 50th sanctuary in Maharashtra.The sanctuary proposal was first mooted in 2014. Since then it was pending due to opposition from the forest development corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), which has large-scale logging operations in Kanhargaon. There are no villages in the sanctuary proposal.“Over 1,000 sqkm area will come under the wildlife ambit now with the areas that have been declared as CRs and Kanhargaon. It was also decided to set up a committee to suggest measures to curb leopard-human conflict,” said state’s chief wildlife warden and SWBL member-secretary Nitin H Kakodkar.The 269sqkm proposed Kanhargaon sanctuary in Central Chanda division, which connects Tadoba was hanging by fire for the last 5 years and there was confusion among greens and forest officials whether to declare it a sanctuary or a CR.A go-ahead for Kanhargaon sanctuary was given after a panel gave a positive report. On December 5, 2018, the then CM Devendra Fadnavis gave in-principle approval to Kanhargaon but did not notify it.Along with Kanhargaon, while announcing the much-publicized Mahendri in Amravati district as a conservation reserve (CR), the chief minister said that for now, Mahendri will be a CR but a sub-committee of the SWBL will talk to locals before declaring it a sanctuary at a later stage.“I have expressed my dissent regarding the Mahendri decision. It is a fit case for a sanctuary. If people get rights then that can be settled,” said Kishor Rithe, SWBL member.On the agenda, there were 11 proposals for CRs. Of these, Chandgad, Gaganbawda, Ajra-Bhudargad, Vishalgad, Panhalgad (Kolhapur); Jor-Jambhali & Mayani (Satara) and Amboli- Dodamarg (Sindhudurg); Mahendri (Amravati) and Munia (Nagpur) were declared CRs. “The CRs in Western Maharashtra will strengthen the Sahyadri Tiger Reserve corridors,” claimed members.On Mogarkasa, which was proposed as CR, Kakodkar said there was some confusion about the area demand by Kundan Hate, who is one of the members. Hence, it will be worked out later.“The area of Mogarkasa (Paoni) was brought down from 211sqkm to 30sqkm. The Mogarkasa proposal should be reworked and must be declared a sanctuary to support the dispersing tiger population from Pench,” said Rithe.Wildlife board members Anish Andheria, Bandu Dhotre, Kishor Rithe, Kundan Hate and Yadav Tarte welcomed the Kanhargaon decision. The sanctuary will help contain the flared up man-animal conflict. As per the survey conducted in 2015 by the Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), there were 10 tigers and 23 leopards in Kanhargaon. Presently, there are over 350 tigers in the state as per the 2020 Phase IV estimation. The lush green forest of Kanhargaon forms a key southern corridor for the spillover tiger population moving to the Kawal tiger reserve in Telangana and Indravati reserve in Chhattisgarh through Chaprala and Pranhita sanctuaries in Gadchiroli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kanhargaon-is-states-50th-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/79570948.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||NU poll experience helped me win big, says Wanjari||Nagpur: After losing twice in the assembly elections, Abhijit Wanjari of Congress on Friday finally managed to gain entry into the Maharashtra legislature as an MLC from Nagpur division graduates constituency due to his stupendous victory over BJP rival and mayor Sandip Joshi.Wanjari had contested a bypoll on Congress ticket in 2005 from South Nagpur for the first time and in 2014 from East Nagpur.After an unexpected win in the graduates constituency election as official candidate of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), an elated Wanjari attributed it to proper planning and coordination between three constituents of MVA along with hard work of his supporters for last one year. “The party’s move to declare my candidature a year in advance benefited me a lot. All our activists worked extremely hard to register new voters in all the six districts. The voters also trusted us and rewarded us with a victory,” he said.The son of late MLA Govindrao Wanjari has been active in politics since his college days. While completing his BALLB, he occupied the post of general secretary of National Students Union of India (NSUI) from 1998 to 2002. He was twice elected as Nagpur University’s Senate member on graduates’ constituency seat and went on to become its Management Council member.“This experience of contesting NU’s preferential pattern of elections helped a lot as I came in contact with many persons in academic circles while campaigning. Before the formation of Gondwana University, I used to visit Chandrapur and Gadchiroli during NU polls.”Married to Dr Smeetaa, a NU Senate member and English lecturer, Wanjari is also an education baron running 10 colleges under Amar Sewa Mandal Educational Trust. It included engineering, pharmacy, law, management, computer technology, education, science, commerce and arts.“I was confident about my win as all Congress leaders, MPs and MLAs campaigned for me. I consider myself very lucky in that sense,” said Wanjari who is also a chairman of Govind Urban Credit Cooperative Society.The newly elected MLC, who is also engaged in social activities under the Govindrao Wanjari Foundation, said the Nagpur results reverberated till Delhi and all polls in future would witness a similar trend of MVA winning by big margins.After his foray into politics, Wanjari held various posts like former Maharashtra Pradesh Youth Congress secretary and NSUI Maharashtra Pradesh general secretary. He is also general secretary and spokesperson of Nagpur District Congress Committee and former vice-chairman of MPCC Youth and Sports Cell. He was appointed as election observer for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar by the party.“Ever since this MLC seat was formed 58 years ago, it was held by the BJP with voters reposing trust in their ideology. I credit all activists and leaders of three parties who worked hard and turned the tide in my favour,” he said.About his plans, Wanjari said he will be working on providing employment opportunities to graduates and teachers, and ensure sustainable development for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-poll-experience-helped-me-win-big-says-wanjari/articleshow/79570985.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Task force formed for vaccine storage, distribution in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: State chief secretary Anil Mukim on Friday chaired a meeting of Covid-19 steering committee in Gandhinagar in which Covid vaccine storage and distribution channels were assessed. “The task force for Covid vaccination has been created in all 33 districts and 248 talukas,” said a senior state government official. “Six vaccine stores at zonal level, 41 stores at district and municipal corporation levels, and 2,189 cold chain points for remote locations have been prepared.” Technical audit has been completed. The official added that in the first phase, the vaccine will be made available to frontline healthcare workers. “So far the details of 2.71 lakh government healthcare workers and 1.25 lakh workers in the private sector have been collected and collated,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/task-force-formed-for-vaccine-storage-distribution-in-state/articleshow/79572004.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Gold rates back to Rs 50,000 a tola mark||NAGPUR: After a fall of Rs4,500 since last month, mainly due to the news on development of Covid vaccine, gold rates have bounced back by Rs1,400 in a week’s trading session. This once again brings the yellow metal close to the Rs50,000 a tola (per 10 grams) mark. On Friday, gold at the local market was quoted at Rs49,900 a tola as against Rs48,500 a week ago. The prices had touched Rs52,900 a tola in November and had peaked at Rs58,000 in August. Traders say as lockdown made its impact on the economy funds were diverted into gold as a safe asset. As the situation eased, slowly the rates also reduced with a major fall coming due to news about the vaccine, they say. But now, the initial hype over the vaccine is over which has led to improvement in gold prices, say traders. A section of bullion traders also say this was a correction as the rates had bottomed out. Nitin Khandelwal, the former president of Gems and Jewellery Council (GJC), said gold rates are generally excepted to be inversely propionate to the dollar value. The dollar index is down which can be a reason for the rebound in gold prices. The silver rates have also improved by Rs3,000 touching Rs64,500 a kg. This is getting close to the last month’s peak of Rs66,300. Khandelwal said this indicates that industrial activity has also increased. Silver is a by-product of copper which is basically an industrial metal. Apart from being a precious metal, silver is also counted as a base metal. Rajesh Rokde of the Itwari Sarafa Oli Sangh said the improvement has led to an increase in demand too. The consumer demand increases when the rates go upwards. It is preferred to buy before the prices touch a peak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gold-rates-back-to-rs50k-a-tola-mark/articleshow/79572009.cms||Shishir Arya
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Joshi to complete term as mayor, oppn says he should resign on moral grounds||Nagpur: After losing the Nagpur division graduates’ constituency election, Sandip Joshi said that he would complete his term as mayor. However, corporators of rival parties feel that Joshi should resign as the city’s first citizen on moral grounds.“The party has given me the mayor’s responsibility and am fulfilling it. I have been asked to work for 13 months and will do so,” said Joshi, a four-time corporator. However, confusion prevails over the exact last date of Joshi’s term. Joshi, a close friend of Leader of Opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis, was elected as the city’s 53rd mayor on November 22, 2019. The mayor’s term ends after two-and-a-half-years. It was reduced due to the assembly elections. The BJP had also decided to equally split the tenure between Joshi and senior corporator Dayashankar Tiwari.Joshi, a two-time standing committee chairman, said his term was till December 22. However, one of the BJP corporators said that Joshi’s term will end on January 8, 2021.After launching a few campaigns and also proposing a sufficient number of public toilets, Joshi’s tenure was marred due to Covid-19 situation in the city and confrontations with IAS officer Tukaram Mundhe during the latter’s term as civic chief. “As I have not planned anything different for my remaining days as mayor, the ongoing projects will continue,” said Joshi.On his last birthday, the 50-year-old Joshi had announced that he would not contest the municipal elections anymore.“Joshi has lost the confidence of the common man. The mayor’s post is a prestigious one. It should have the confidence of citizens. Therefore, Joshi should resign on moral grounds,” said corporators Praful Gudadhe (Congress) and Jitendra Godeshwar (BSP).“Joshi’s defeat in the graduates’ constituency polls also means his failure as ruling party leader in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation and mayor with the majority of the votes from the city,” the duo added.BJP city president Pravin Datke said Joshi will complete whatever term the party had earlier given him as mayor. Congress corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar said, “The mayor’s defeat in the graduates’ constituency election means that people are unhappy with BJP’s rule in NMC. Most of the votes in this election were from the city. The BJP has four out of the city’s six MLAs, including former CM Fadnavis. Union minister Nitin Gadkari is also from the city. Therefore, the result is a clear indication that people will teach BJP a lesson in the next municipal elections slated in January 2022.” Adding that the win by Abhjit Wanjari has boosted the morale of the Congress party, Mahakalkar said, “Victory in this BJP-dominated seat has lifted the spirits of leaders and workers of the Congress. The BJP has failed to fulfil its civic promises. People are facing numerous problems. This winning trend will continue in the next municipal elections.”Senior BJP corporator Tiwari downplayed his rivals. “The graduates’ constituency election spanned six districts. Therefore, there is no correlation between that election and the municipal polls. Municipal polls are fought on purely local issues. BJP has developed the city and provided all kinds of infrastructure. There is nothing to worry about. People will continue to support BJP,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/joshi-to-complete-term-as-mayor-oppn-says-he-should-resign-on-moral-grounds/articleshow/79570956.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to riot accused for performing ‘kanyadaan’ of niece||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Friday granted two weeks’ bail to a man accused of rioting in northeast Delhi in February for performing ‘kanyadaan’ of his niece. The accused Brijmohan Sharma sought interim bail for three weeks citing his niece’s marriage scheduled on December 9, 2020. It was argued on his behalf that the rituals had to be performed for the daughter of his deceased brother, putting the onus of managing the family affairs on him. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav said, “I find substance in the submissions of the counsel for the applicant that his presence is very much necessary in the marriage, as he has to perform certain important rituals, including ‘kanyadaan’ and host of other significant rituals that carry deep sentimental significance.” The court further noted, “I fully appreciate the fact that in Hindu mythology, the ritual of kanyadaan is ripe with deep religious symbolisms as it exemplifies the bond between a father and a daughter and their mutual love.” The special prosecutor appearing for the state had contested the interim bail plea arguing that that this was an unfortunate case of “brutal murder of a young innocent boy named Irfan”, who was killed by a riotous mod owing to communal violence. The prosecutor also contended that Sharma’s father could handle the arrangements, including all the requisite rituals. The court, however, observed that the father was 74 years of age and it would be very difficult for a person of such a “ripe age to run here and there for meeting the exigencies and intricacies involved in a typical Hindu marriage”. Sharma was booked under sections 302 (murder) and 147 (rioting) of IPC among other charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-grants-bail-to-riot-accused-for-performing-kanyadaan-of-niece/articleshow/79572006.cms||Aamir Khan
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: For these thieves, your wedding is a party||NEW DELHI: Seven members of a gang, two being minors, who had committed back-to-back thefts at wedding venues in Delhi and other cities were apprehended by Crime Branch of Delhi Police and stolen cash and jewellery worth lakhs was recovered from them. After getting a tip-off by informers, police had zeroed in on an autorickshaw rented by the gang to commit the crime and fixed a GPS to it. Later, the vehicle was tracked and the thieves were caught red-handed from Outer Ring Road. Additional commissioner (crime) Shibesh Singh said, “The gang members had committed thefts worth over Rs 1 crore in the past two months. They belong to Rajgarh in Madhya Pradesh and are a part of a crime syndicate specialising in the trade of items stolen from wedding venues. They were found involved in eight cases, five of which were committed in Delhi.” The arrested gang members were identified as Sandeep, Hansraj, Sant Kumar, Kishan and Bobby. The two minors who were apprehended were sent to a reform home after being produced before a magistrate. The recoveries included Rs 4 lakh in cash, two jewellery bags and silver coins. Recently, many incidents had come to the fore about bags of shagun and jewellery being stolen from wedding venues. The cases were found registered in Kapashera, Mayapuri and Moti Nagar. After getting a tip-off about such gangs having become active during the ongoing wedding season, a team led by DCP (Crime) Bhisham Singh was formed to crack down on the criminals. The team analysed CCTV footage and deployed informers at various well-known banquet halls, farmhouses, etc to gather intelligence about the suspects. A close watch was kept on culprits involved in previous thefts with similar modus operandi, especially the gangs belonging to Madhya Pradesh. Police also visited three villages in MP to identify the thieves. Data of mobile phones used in the area at the time of the crime was also obtained. While analysing the CCTV footage of one of the venues, a five-star hotel, police spotted three suspects spending a considerable time and making themselves familiar with the area. They weren’t in a hurry as they had dinner and waited for the right time to strike. They were dressed as guests at the wedding. “After entering the venue, the suspects mingled with the crowd. They then targeted the briefcase in which cash and jewellery had been kept by the family of the newlyweds and quickly vanished from the spot,” said DCP Singh. On December 2, the auto used by the thieves in which police had attached the GPS was tracked down by a team comprising ACP Pankaj Singh and others and the seven suspects were nabbed from Outer Ring Road. Two of them turned out to be juveniles. The gang members disclosed that they were leaving Delhi to return to their village in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/its-your-wedding-but-their-party/articleshow/79572023.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||A ton of cases and 5 deaths in dist||Ludhiana: Five residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 100 tested positive on Friday.According to the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 63-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan, a 61-year-old man of Nurpur Bet village, a 40-year-old man of Himmat Singh Nagar, a 51-year-old man of Chawni Mohalla, and a 73-year-old man of Haibowal Kalan.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll has risen to 913 and that of outsiders to 392.The day also saw two outsiders succumbing to the virus and 11 testing positive here.Of the 100 new cases, 44 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 12 were positive cases’ contacts, 28 from OPD, seven through tracing process, three healthcare workers, one interstate traveller and five severe acute respiratory infection cases.The district case count was 23,261 and that of outsiders 3,310.To date, 21,430 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.12% of the total cases.There are 915 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/a-ton-of-cases-and-5-deaths-in-dist/articleshow/79570969.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||HC slams NMC over poor condition of Nagpur roads||NAGPUR: Annoyed over the pathetic condition of city roads, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday slammed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for its failure to maintain them. While hearing a PIL on city’s bad roads, particularly in areas like Sangharsh Nagar, Chandmari Temple Road, Bidgaon T-point and the Bhandewadi Dumping Yard, the HC severally censured the civic authorities. “If barren pieces of land are used as roads, the only option available to the user would be to choose between a small pit and a bigger pothole. We hope that at least now the NMC authorities would be awakened and get on with the job without wasting any further time,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said. “We’re constrained to issue this direction to NMC after seeing the photographs submitted by the petitioners. All this depicts an extremely sorry state of affairs of the roads. It’s beyond our imagination as to how much pain the residents of concerned localities must have been experiencing every time they’re required to use these barren pieces of land and not roads as they appear to be in the photographs,” the bench added. Before adjourning the hearing by four weeks, the judges directed NMC to commence work on the road project in petitioners’ areas within three weeks and submit a detailed reply. “We’re of the view that unless actual work is commenced, the corporation must not entertain any hopes for receipt of funds. When the state government has committed itself to fund the project in its entirety, there is no reason for NMC to dither and apprehend that funds may not be actually available to it while its liability to pay contractors for the works carried out increases,” the HC said. According to petitioners Chandrashekhar Pillari and others, the civic body had proposed work of widening, cement construction and asphalting of three stretches of a road starting from Sangharsh Nagar and going up to the Bhandewadi Dumping Yard and then to Chandmari Temple, stretching further to Bidgaon T-point and then leading to the Wathoda crematorium. The government had agreed to fully fund the project. However, the NMC failed to start the work, forcing aggrieved residents to knock HC’s doors. The NMC informed that the tender process is already completed and now the matter is at the stage of issuance of work order. The lowest bid was submitted on October 30, 2019, by contractor SK Gurbaxani which was accepted. Since then, the project is pending for issuance of work order. NMC counsel Girish Kunte contended that work orders weren't issued as the government failed to deposit funds in its bank accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-slams-nmc-over-poor-condition-of-city-roads/articleshow/79572020.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price turns volatile, investments come to a halt||AHMEDABAD: Even though the positive outcome of vaccine trials for Covid-19 has caused a dip in gold prices, boosting the risk appetite of investors, concerns over a few other geopolitical factors continue to remain, thus causing gold prices to remain extremely volatile. Yellow metal price stood at Rs 50,800 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad market on Friday, declining sharply by Rs 1,000 against Thursday’s Rs 51,800 per 10 gram. Analysts said that gold prices are currently driven by various factors. Explaining reasons for its volatility, Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA), said, “On one hand, the depreciation of currencies in various countries, increased pumping of liquidity by central governments and concerns over the launch and distribution of Covid-19 vaccine has collectively pushed prices of gold up, as a safe haven investment. On the other hand, positive outcome of the Covid-19 vaccine trials by several companies increased the risk appetite of investors causing gold price to decline.” Industry players said that fresh investments are likely to come to a grinding halt till prices stabilize, however, it is unlikely that investors exit at this point. “Most investors have made long-term investments in gold, including those who invested when price of gold was above Rs 50,000-mark. These investors are not expected to exit the market any time soon because amidst the geopolitical uncertainty in the Middle-East, the gold price rally is expected to continue,” said a city-based gold analyst, on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, fresh investments will dearly suffer, both for bullion and jewellery. Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said, “The wedding season has been hampered due to the restrictions imposed by the government on the guest list, the night curfew in parts of Gujarat and a second wave of infections of Covid-19. This has led to either downsizing of weddings or postponement of occasions to next year, thus impacting gold jewellery sales dearly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-turns-volatile-investments-come-to-a-halt/articleshow/79572022.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 5, 2020||Madurai||Covid control a big challenge in districts ravaged by rain||Madurai: Health officials in the southern districts are left with a herculean task at hand as the impact of Cyclone Burevi has forced them to step up Covid-19 measures to prevent any possible outbreak in relief camps, along with the relief work. Though South TN has been witnessing a marginal rise in total cases during the past week, health officials assured that positivity rate is still very low and Covid-19 testing would be ramped up.Despite consistently reporting fresh Covid-19 cases in single digits, health officials in Ramanathapuram district, one of the worst cyclone-hit areas, are taking no chances. The district has a total of 197 relief camps, including 23 multi-purpose evacuation centres. “Medical teams have been deployed in permanent and temporary shelters. For everyone entering the relief camps, they are asked to use hand sanitisers first. Temperature screening is also done on entry every day and even periodically if possible. Any person with symptoms of Covid-19 would be immediately isolated and shifted to the nearest hospital or primary health centre (PHC),” said Dr M Senthilkumar, deputy director of health services, Ramanathapuram. He added that around 40,000 triple-layer masks have been supplied by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation specially for distribution to those at the relief camps. Covid-19 awareness is also being created by health workers among public and social distancing maintained by ensuring the crowd is staggered in rooms at the relief camps. “We have also undertaken fogging measures to prevent spread of mosquito-borne diseases and regular sanitisation of surfaces at the centres. Safe drinking water is also being ensured,” said Dr Senthilkumar. Around 900 samples are being tested per day in the district for Covid-19.While fresh Covid-19 cases per day in the southern region dropped below 150 in October, there has been a marginal rise in the last few days. Kanyakumari, another cyclone-hit area, is witnessing comparatively higher incidence in south TN, next to Madurai, with around 20-30 cases per day. “We are testing up to 1,300 to 1,500 samples for Covid-19 per day. Cyclone Burevi has not affected testing. The cases have mostly been local and sporadic. We continue to be vigilant, especially ensuring Covid-19 testing is done at all border check posts,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-control-a-big-challenge-in-districts-ravaged-by-rain/articleshow/79574287.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||While settling debts, 1st priority to provident fund dues, HC holds||Ludhiana: The Punjab and Haryana high court’s recent verdict substantiates the stand of Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) that provident fund dues have first charge over any other organisation or payments. The verdict was given on a case filed by a bank against EPFO regional office Ludhiana as the department had attached salary of its manager after the bank chose to settle dues of central excise department over EPFO. The Ludhiana-based company had defaulted on dues of both the departments and the bank account of the company was attached by both the departments. According to a statement released by the EPFO regional office Ludhiana, “In this case, the first issue was whether manager of the bank had violated the provisions of Section 8F (3) and Section 11(2) of the EPF & MP, Act, 1952 and made himself liable as per law by transferring money from the account of defaulting establishment to the central excise department in preference to EPFO assessing officer (assistant PF commissioner) 8F order. The second issue was to whether the dues of EPFO department have priority over the dues of central excise department. After arguments from all parties of case (EPFO, bank and central excise department) the high court in its judgment has conclusively held that provident fund dues over all other debts, including that of revenue department, has a first charge on the assets of a defaulting establishment as provident fund is for the benefit of workmen.” Statement also said, “Court in its judgment has also observed that in its opinion, the first charge under the Act of 1952 would take precedence even over a demand raised by the central excise, even prior in time, if such demand was not satisfied by the time the demand by the provident fund commissioner was raised. The court has further ordered assistant commissioner central excise/ central treasury to return the amount received from banker and transfer to provident fund commissioner within two months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/while-settling-debts-1st-priority-to-provident-fund-dues-hc-holds/articleshow/79570972.cms||Mohit Behl
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘At onset, HRCT not advisable’||Ahmedabad: Dr Pankaj Amin, professor and head of radiology at BJ Medical College, on Friday said high-resolution computer tomography (HRCT) is not a Covid-19 test, and it’s not always advisable at the onset of the infection. “Those with mild symptoms such as low-grade fever, oxygen saturation of more than 95% or bodyache should not go for HRCT. It’s required in the second phase when the virus reaches the lungs and starts proliferating. It should be performed from seven to 28 days to see the spread of the infection,” said Dr Amin. “CO-RADS score is given from 25 to 40 to ascertain severity of the infection and course of treatment.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-onset-hrct-not-advisable/articleshow/79572013.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kanpur||Bhim Army supporters clash with policemen||Jhansi: Six cops, including the station officer (SO), several villagers sustained injuries and three police jeeps were damaged during clashes between the Bhim Army supporters and the police in Lalitpur on Thursday evening when Bhim Army supporters were stopped by the police from constructing an illegal platform to celebrate birthday of their national president. The incident took place on Thursday evening in village Baraudiya under Narhat police station where Bhim Army supporters and members of Bharat Azad Party were celebrating the birthday of their national president Chandrashekhar. When the police arrived in the village and stopped construction of the platform, the Bhim Army supporters and the villagers had an heated argument with the police after which they allegedly attacked the police team with stones and damaged their vehicles. The situation was controlled on Friday evening after additional police force arrived at the spot. Police have lodged an FIR against 100-170 unknown persons, including the party supporters and the villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bhim-army-supporters-clash-with-policemen/articleshow/79573108.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for cheating employer of Rs 75L||Coimbatore: The city crime branch (CCB) police arrested a 42-year-old Thudiyalur resident on Thursday for swindling Rs 75 lakh from a private firm at RS Puram.Police identified him as L Veeraperumal of Appanaickenpalayam, who was working as manager of Pure India, a water purifying accessories shop at RS Puram.Owner of the shop S Senthilkumar had lodged a complaint against Veeraperumal on November 9. “He fabricated bills in the name of Aqua Pure and sold Pure India’s accessories. When the staff questioned him, Veeraperumal threatened them with dire consequences,” the complaint said. “When I started to audit sales details, Veeraperumal stopped attending work. He also refused to respond to phone calls. He had deposited a huge amount in three bank accounts. He swindled Rs 75 lakh from Pure India firm and also stole vital documents from computers,” said Senthilkumar. “Veeraperumal’s wife Swapna visited the firm on June 29 and threatened the employees. She also hurled abuse at me.”Veeraperumal had started a business selling water purifying accessories at Saibaba Colony. Police arrested him from the office on Thursday and remanded him in judicial custody. He was booked under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code.Police have formed a special team to nab Swapna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-cheating-employer-of-rs-75l/articleshow/79573477.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Police catch man, 2 accomplices, who stole 40L from employer||Ludhiana: Less than 10 days after an employee ran away with nearly Rs 40 lakh, Khanna police on Friday arrested him, his brother-in-law and another accomplice. The accused were identified as Nihal Vijan, Jatin Mehta and Anil Vijan of Khanna. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Khanna, Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said police had registered a case for misappropriation of Rs. 39,13,550 money at Khanna city two police station on November 26 on the statement of Pardeep Battra of Khanna. He added that the complainant had said his employee Nihal along with his brother-in-law Jatin fled away with the bag having Rs.39,13,550, which he was going to deposit in the firm’s bank account. Police officer said they also had borrowed the household articles (television, refrigerator and furniture, worth approximately Rs10 lakh) from various shopkeepers of Khanna and loaded in the truck. He added that a team was constituted to trace the accused. SSP said on Friday, a team conducted a raid at New Friends Colony in Khanna and with the help of tip-offs, the accused involved in the case were arrested. He added that Rs.31,41,000, gold/ silver ornaments (Rs 6-7 lakh) and other borrowed household articles (TV, refrigerator, furniture of approximate value Rs 10 lakh) were recovered from them. “During questioning, accused Nihal disclosed that they had a plan to go abroad with the family, with the help of his brother-in-law’s travel agent friend Khalid Ahmed of Hyderabad,” police officials said. “The culprits are still being questioned, there is possibility of other disclosures from them.” They added that a car used in the crime was recovered on information provided by them made during police interrogation. The police said the truck in which household articles were kept was also seized. They added that records are being scanned to check whether the accused have previous crime cases against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-catch-man-2-accomplices-who-stole-40l-from-employer/articleshow/79571006.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC: PIL for judicial probe in Hathras case disposed of||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has refused to entertain a PIL seeking judicial enquiry into the Hathras gang rape case, saying it does not want to multiply the litigation as another litigation in this regard is pending before the HC’s Lucknow Bench. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and justice Piyush Agrawal was hearing the PIL filed by one Babita Upadhyay. The petitioner had further sought directions to the state government and concerned authorities not to restrain the media or the public at large to meet the family members of the victim. The court while declining to interfere in the present proceedings, said that a Division Bench at Lucknow had taken suo moto cognizance of midnight cremation of the victim’s body and thus, it shall not be appropriate to ‘multiply litigation’ by entertaining the present petitioner. “We are not inclined to multiply the litigation in relation to the issue which is already under consideration,” the Bench observed. The petitioner had also sought a direction to the state government to formulate proper guidelines and provide adequate and uniform compensation to all the victims of gang rape and murder without any discrimination. The petition was disposed of with liberty to move an appropriate application before the Division Bench at Lucknow. The Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court had taken suo moto cognizance of the Hathras gang rape case on October 1, stating that is an “extremely sensitive” matter, touching upon the basic human/fundamental rights of the citizens. Subsequently, the investigation of the case was transferred to the CBI. The decision was taken on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pil-for-judicial-probe-in-hathras-case-disposed-of/articleshow/79573102.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Kidnapping of hotelier’s son: Moga cops nab driver, aide||Ludhiana: The Moga police on Friday arrested the accused driver and his accomplice for kidnapping the two-year-old son of a Ludhiana hotelier. The police said the initial plan of the accused was to kidnap the hotelier. The accomplices of the main accused had also visited the city about eight times to execute the plan. But as the hotelier had a severe backache, he mostly remained home. So, they planned to kidnap his son.The cops said there were five accused in this case. Initially, the police had said there were four.Moga senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “Harjinderpal Singh, alias Harjinder Kumar, driver of hotelier Pankaj Gupta of SBS Nagar, and his accomplice Sukhdev Singh Sukha of Kheowali, Fazilka, have been arrested. Of the five accused, Harjinder and Sukhdev Singh Sukha were arrested by the Moga police, Rachpal Singh by Ludhiana police and two others, Lal Singh and another Sukhdev Singh, are at large. The arrested will be handed over to the Ludhiana police.” SP (investigation), Moga, Jagatpreet Singh said, “The main conspirator, Harjinder, has revealed that his initial plan was to kidnap Gupta. Harjinder has been working with the Gupta family for two years. For the past seven months, Harjinder had been hatching the conspiracy to kidnap Gupta. His accomplices came to Ludhiana a number of times to execute the kidnapping, but as Gupta had severe backache, he started staying at home. Then they planned to kidnap his son.” “Gupta has two daughters too, aged 15 years and eight years. Harjinder used to pick up and drop both his daughters to tuition as well. But he decided to kidnap the son, as he was too young. If they had kidnapped Gupta, they would have killed him on not getting ransom,” added SP Jagatpreet. He added, “After Harjinder kidnapped the boy in a Swift car, he reached near Keys Hotel of Gupta. Lal Singh, who was already present there, sat in the car. Then in Mullapur, Sukhdev Sukha joined them. The accused wanted to reach Ferozepur, but the police had details of the car and the child and check-posts had been established at all entry and exit points. The accused had to abandon the car in Kot Isse Khan in Moga. Then, Rachpal brought a Volkswagen Polo car to help them. Both Sukhdev Sukha and Lal Singh had reached Ludhiana in a bus.” SP said, “After the police recovered the child from the Volkswagen Polo car, the accused escaped to the house of Sukhdev Singh’s sister in Ferozepur. They told her that their car had met with an accident and they wanted to spend a night. All the accused involved in this kidnapping are habitual offenders. Harjinder too has several criminal cases against him, including that of murder, kidnapping and robberies in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Due to his criminal activities, Harjinder’s parents had disowned him. So, he shifted to Ludhiana, near the house of his in-laws. While working with the Gupta family, Harjinder realised that the family was well-heeled and he hatched the conspiracy.” Infamous five Ludhiana police arrested accused Rachpal Singh of Jira, Moga, who is a former Congress sarpanch. Moga police arrested the main accused Harjnder and his accomplice Sukhdev Singh Sukha of Fazilka. The absconding accused are Lal Singh of Jira and Sukhdev Singh of Fazilka.The kidnapping Around 1.20pm on December 1, driver Harjinder Singh left the house with Pankaj Gupta’s son for a car ride as per the daily routine. At 2.30pm, Mukta Gupta, mother of the child, received a ransom call from an unidentified number. The caller said the child and the driver were in his custody and demanded Rs 4 crore. In a joint operation, the Ludhiana and Moga police recovered the child from Dugru railway crossing in Moga in 15 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kidnapping-of-hoteliers-son-moga-cops-nab-driver-aide/articleshow/79570990.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Approval to building plan against norms has town planner in soup||tnnLudhiana: Local bodies department principal secretary AK Sinha has issued a charge-sheet to municipal corporation town planner Monica Anand on the basis of allegations leveled against her by former MC commissioner KP Brar that she gave approval to the plan of a building against norms that resulted in financial loss to the civic body. It is also alleged that she did not respond to show-cause notices issued to her from time to time.Anand has been asked to submit a reply in 21 days and if she wants, she can check records related with the case. In the charge-sheet, it is mentioned that on January 14 Anand gave consent to the plan of a building in Feroze Gandhi market against norms. On her recommendations, Brar too approved the building plan. The building, however, required the consent of the chief town planner, local bodies department, and not the MC commissioner. This caused a financial loss of Rs 5 lakh to the civic body. Besides, the building owner constructed a floor extra against the sanctioned plan. When Brar came to know about the irregularities, the building plan was cancelled immediately and Anand was issued a show-cause notice, but she did not respond.Anand has also been held responsible for lesser recovery under various sources and she did not provide the file of a land adjoining Society Cinema that could have been sold. Another allegation against her is that when Brar had asked about recovery of development and other charges from illegal colonies, she paid no attention to it. 3 B&R officials issued charge-sheet In the wake of a complaint against a poor-quality road in ward 94, Sinha has issued a charge-sheet to three officials of bridges and road department over use of substandard material in its construction. After receiving the complaint in January, Sinha had set up a committee to check the road quality. The charge-sheet was issued as MC officials brought report of the road in seven days which otherwise takes 28 days and it said the road was okay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/approval-to-building-plan-against-norms-has-town-planner-in-soup/articleshow/79570977.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Majerhat bridge: Kolkata gets one more clickable landmark||KOLKATA: Attracted by the city’s latest landmark, thousands of shutterbugs from Behala and New Alipore thronged the mint-fresh Majerhat bridge with friends and families till late on Thursday evening and again early Friday morning to shoot photographs and videos of the city’s only cable-stayed road overbridge. Armed with cell phones, selfie sticks and digital cameras, people climbed and walked along the bridge till pedestrian movement was barred. Even motorists drove slowly sticking their cellphones out of the car windows to click the bridge on the go. The bridge tourism had traffic cops struggling to keep vehicles moving on the bridge. Cars inveriably slowed down as they reached midway for the perfect picture while bikers even parked their two-wheelers to take selfies. “The bridge is finally here. How could I give it a miss and not ride down to have a first-hand experience? I shot some selfies and made a video of the bridge and sent it to friends’ WhatsApp group. I had no work on this side of the city but rode it just for fun,” said Sudipto Paul, a resident of Behala Roy Bahadur Road. A bunch of friends — all in their mid-twenties — were also found driving their car and slowing down as they reached the place where 260m deck slab of the bridge is strung together by 84 cables — all imported from Switzerland — to take photographs. “We will come back again at night when the vehicular pressure would be less and take a groupfie in the backdrop of the lit-up bridge,” said one of them while continuing to make a video from the moving car. An even larger crowd had gathered at the bridge on Thursday evening that stayed till 11.30am, making video calls, shooting photographs and loads of selfies. “I was a regular passenger on the bridge but since it collapsed, I have been forced to take alternative routes. Now that the bridge is up again, I came with my entire family to be here on the historic day,” said Suman Chakraborty, a pharma executive and resident of Sarsuna while taking a photograph of his wife Rupa and son Sourik with the plaque ‘Jai Hind Bridge’ in their background. A string of blue-and-white miniature lights fixed to the lamp posts and wrapped around the cables provided ample illumination and the perfect background for low-light selfies. Swarnali Das, a Class XII student, was found taking a groupfie with her entire family in its backdrop. Many had their helmets on their head or in their hands after parking the two-wheelers on Diamond Harbour Road opposite to Kolkata Mint. “I had gone out for an evening ride with my friend. She saw a friend making a Facebook live video from the bridge. We didn’t waste much time and came over here to have a stroll on the lit-up bridge,” New Alipore resident Soumyajit Das told TOI on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-gets-one-more-clickable-landmark/articleshow/79572015.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: New prepaid taxi booth at SVPI domestic arrivals||AHMEDABAD: On stepping out of the terminal at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) fliers were pounced on by a posse of autorickshaw and taxi drivers, almost hounding customers for trips. The experience was more than annoying for most fliers. In a bid to organize the movements of private cabs at the airport, a new pre-paid taxi booth has been set up at the domestic arrivals (Terminal-1) of SVPI airport. Sources said the decision was taken to organize the movement and parking of cabs and to prevent unnecessary crowding at the arrivals area. “A booth has been set up where customers can request a cab for their destinations and be assigned one on making payment,” said a source privy to the development. This is the first change at the airport after it was taken over by Adani Ahmedabad International Airport Limited on November 7. A separate booth for autorickshaw trips will also be set up. The Union civil aviation ministry recently raised the cap on passengers for airlines to 80% of capacity. The cap was 70% of the pre-Covid capacity earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-prepaid-taxi-booth-at-svpi-domestic-arrivals/articleshow/79572030.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 5, 2020||Varanasi||10 more schools to come under Smart Class project||KANPUR: The divisional commissioner along with the municipal commissioner and other district officials visited three schools, running smart classes under the Smart City project here on Friday to check progress of their work. The three schools which were inspected include Primary Girls School, Pratham in Khalasi Line, MG Nagar Nigam Mahila Inter College, Civil Lines and Shri Kailash Nath Balika Inter College, Civil Lines. Commissioner Raj Shekhar said that the Smart City Corporation was regularly monitoring the work progress of Smart City projects because besides being on top priority of the government, the projects were very important for Kanpurites, therefore their work should be completed on time. He said the Smart Classes project, worth Rs 2.30 crore, had been approved for the city’s six schools. Under this project, instruments and equipment for smart classes like (Interactive smart board, projectors), renovation of classrooms, new furniture, LED lighting etc were being taken up, he further said and added that the Smart classes would provide online educational contents of NCERT in Hindi and English from class nursery to class 12 for all subjects. Besides updating the content of the syllabus, it would be maintained for five years by the firm ‘Smart Classes’ beginning this year. The firm would also train teachers and staff in running the Smart classes project successfully. “Three works have been completed and are ready for use while the remaining will be completed in the next two months. As this one is one of the important projects, it will give good results in terms of effective learning and teaching and this is why the Smart City Corporation has decided to take up another 10 government schools under this project with an estimated cost of Rs 4 crore in the coming financial year of 2021-22”, the commissioner said. This time the schools would be selected on the merit based competition among the government schools, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/10-more-schools-to-come-under-smart-class-proj/articleshow/79573602.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cops dig out 108 liquor bottles||AHMEDABAD: A local crime branch (LCB) team of Ahmedabad rural police on Friday found 108 liquor bottles worth Rs 54,000 buried in a pit in Godhavi village of Ahmedabad district. An LCB officer said that the cops got an input that there is a huge stock of liquor at Godhavi village. They rushed to the village and nabbed four suspected persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-dig-out-108-liquor-bottles/articleshow/79572025.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Bloggers, influencers roped in to create awareness about waste segregation||Ludhiana: For creating awareness regarding source segregation and doing the demonstration of static compactors, the civic authorities organised a bloggers’ and influencers’ meet on Friday at Sarabha Nagar where new static compactor is installed recently. During the meeting, in which the councillors of west constituency were also present, former councillor and senior Congress leader Hemraj Aggarwal asked the mayor when the problem of garbage in ward number 81 will be resolved. He said the situation is quite critical in the ward. Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu pacified Aggarwal that as soon as machinery will come they will install static compactor at Hambran Road. The mayor also said waste segregation is the recurring issue in Ludhiana and Punjab. With an aim to manage and streamline the segregation process, the Punjab government is installing waste compactors in different parts of Ludhiana, he added. The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), in collaboration with Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) has started installing compactors at different locations in the city, including Sarabha Nagar, Rishi Nagar, Kitchlu Nagar, BRS Nagar and near Kochar Market. MC councillors Mamta Ashu, Sunny Bhalla, Narinder Sharma, Jai Prakash, Amrit Varsha Rampal, Seema Kapoor, Pankaj Sharma Kaka, Hari Singh Brar, Rashi Hemraj Aggarwal, Baljinder Singh Bunty, and Dilraj Singh, joint commissioner Swati Tiwana, zonal commissioner (Zone C) Neeraj Jain, senior Congress leader Sunil Kapoor and some of the social media personalities, including Satbhushan Pandhi, Narinder Singh Masson, Nandini Gupta, Manisha Kapoor and child artist Dhairya Tandon were present at the event. Mamta Ashu said Ludhiana’s renowned bloggers and influencers also paid a visit to the station and motivated the residents to follow the guidelines issued by the government. In the end, everybody took a pledge to contribute their part in this campaign by segregating dry and wet waste at the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bloggers-influencers-roped-in-to-create-awareness-about-waste-segregation/articleshow/79570980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||200 structures along Buddha Nullah razed, occupants call drive unfair||Ludhiana: Amid resentment from the occupants, the municipal corporation officials removed almost 200 illegal structures along Buddha Nullah near the Dairy Complex, Hambran Road, on Friday. The officials claimed that those were sheds and temporary structures that were coming in the way of construction of a concrete road and a leisure valley. But some of the occupants rued that despite the fact that they had registries and other legal documents, the officials razed even the concrete structures without giving a notice. The MC officials said a road has been approved on the banks of Buddha Nullah in Gopal Nagar, but some people had set up small sheds to keep animals and there were temporary encroachments too. An occupant, Poonam, said it was injustice with poor people as there was an illegal colony nearby and nobody was taking action against it. She said the officials removed even legal parts of their structures without paying heed to them. Another occupant, Vinod Kumar, said the authorities did not serve prior notice before demolition. He said some part of his building was on the roadside, but the officials removed the entire structure. The occupants said in winter they had no place to go with their animals and had they been given time, they could have made arrangements. After the drive, there was debris all around and pigs and other animals were roaming around. People were trying to find their belongings in heaps of debris. Building inspector Jagdeep Singh denied that there was any concrete structure and claimed that there were only temporary encroachments on the stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/200-structures-along-buddha-nullah-razed-occupants-call-drive-unfair/articleshow/79571005.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Minors from Madhya Pradesh villages ‘leased’ by gangs for thefts||NEW DELHI: The investigation into the functioning of the “wedding crasher gangs” has revealed shocking details about their operations in north India. Crime Branch officers said many villagers in Rajgarh district in Madhya Pradesh gave their children on contract to these gangs for carrying out thefts at big fat weddings. Additional commissioner (Crime) Shibesh Singh said, “The children were leased out by their parents for Rs 10-12 lakh for a year. Most suspects are from three villages — Gulkheri, Kadiya and Sulkheri — in Rajgarh district.” The accused disclosed that the children aged between nine and 15 were auctioned on the basis of their potential and intelligence. After the auction, the money would be handed over to their parents in two or more installments. The children would then undergo short training courses on lifting bags of cash, jewellery and other valuables. DCP (Crime) Bhisham Singh said, “They were also trained in how to behave with people once they were inside the venue. They were made mentally and physically tough to not divulge the identity of the gang members or their own if they were caught red-handed. They were instructed to put on good clothes and taught ways to have snacks along with other invitees to dispel any suspicion.” “Women gang members posed as mothers of the children. The real parents of the children were regularly informed regarding their well-being,” added DCP Singh. The children were taken to places like Delhi, Chandigarh, Ludhiana, among other towns and cities where big weddings were being held. Each gang member had a fixed role to play. While the children committed the thefts, the others would escape with the booty. The gang would rent a house for a couple of months. During the daytime, they would stay in the house and rest, while in the evening they would hire an autorickshaw till late at night to look for wedding venues where entry was not being done through invitation cards. Two or three gang members, including the minors, would then enter the venue and focus on bags containing cash and valuables being received by the newlyweds. At most times, the children would be left alone at the venue, while the adults would wait outside in autos or bikes. After getting the right opportunity, the bag would be stolen by the children, usually from the stage or during the phera ceremony, and handed over to the adult gang members waiting outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minors-from-mp-villages-leased-by-gangs-for-thefts/articleshow/79572033.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Rid MC of corrupt officials, city NGO stage protest||Ludhiana: Having raised a demand for the termination of health branch officials who were found guilty of diesel scam in an inquiry report, the members of NGO Yuva staged a unique protest outside zone D office on Friday. The founder member of the NGO, Kumar Gaurav, drove a small tractor while doing commenting sarcastically about how the civic officials did not even spare those tractors that were falling apart. Recently, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal had issued suspension orders of three sanitation employees for their alleged involvement in the diesel scam. After a probe conducted by joint commissioner Swati Tiwana, it came to light that these officials got diesel issued for tractors that were lying unused for a long time. The members of the NGO claimed that due to corrupt officials, the civic body was in deep financial crisis and they were forced to take loan for development projects. “If authorities fix such kind of corrupt officials, then there will be no need to take loans,” said Gaurav. He also accused the officials of the building branch of allowing illegal construction work due to which many illegal colonies have sprung up in the city. Gaurav said the civic body officials had become corrupt to the core that they were ready to earn profit from even out of dead things. He said it is because of such officials the city was in such condition so services of such officials should be terminated. But Gaurav said the commissioner dismissed just the driver, who was under temporary contract, while others were only suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rid-mc-of-corrupt-officials-city-ngo-stage-protest/articleshow/79571026.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Assembly Rooms gets facelift, show resumes||Udhagamandalam: The Assembly Rooms, the oldest cinema hall in the hill town of Ooty, reopened on Friday after it was closed in March-end because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The cinema hall that entertained generations of film enthusiasts in the course of its 133-year-old history has got a facelift at a cost of Rs38 lakh when it remained closed for the past eight months. A new 600ft-long compound wall has replaced the dilapidated one that was constructed decades ago. Seven LED display boards adorn the compound wall and they screen scenes from timeless classics like Ben Hur, Sound of Music and James Bond, among others.District collector J Innocent Divya inaugurated the renovated portion of the theatre and commissioned the online booking for the shows.Divya, also ex-officio of the Assembly Rooms, said, “For the first time, the heritage theatre has got a makeover with online booking facility. Films will be screened with 50% seating capacity by adhering to the standard operating procedures.”D Radhakrishnan, honorary secretary, Assembly Rooms, said they have plans to put up attractive paintings on the compound wall in future.On Friday, the theatre screened the movie Tenet. There will be two shows daily except on Saturdays when a night show will be added.Managed by a committee of trustees, the Assembly Rooms is the only public theatre in south India and it has Tamil Nadu governor as its patron.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/assembly-rooms-gets-facelift-show-resumes/articleshow/79573506.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Three held for poisoning wild dogs to death in tiger reserve||Udhagamandalam: Three people were arrested by the forest department on Friday in connection with poisoning five wild dogs to death at Vibuthimalai near Bokkapuram in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR)-buffer zone in September last. The accused were identified as D Sivan, M Ramesh and M Madevan, all residents of Bokkapuram.After the five wild dogs were found dead, a case was registered, and a report was submitted to the judicial magistrate in Gudalur by the forest department.“Samples of the carcasses of the wild dogs were taken and sent for forensic analysis. The result showed presence of poison in the samples,” deputy director of MTR-buffer zone LCS Srikanth said.He said, “DNA analysis suggested that the contents in the stomachs of the dogs were of deer meat. Hence, we continued investigation in this connection.”Based on information and intelligence received, a team of forest officials apprehended the three accused from Bokkapuram Thakkal area on Thursday, according to the official. “During inquiry, the accused confessed that they had poisoned the wild dogs to death,” Srikanth said. All the three were arrested on Friday. Later they were remanded in judicial custody. Two other people were involved in hunting deer for meat. The two accused were identified as J Mohan and J Komban, both residents of Bokkapuram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-held-for-poisoning-wild-dogs-to-death-in-tiger-reserve/articleshow/79573496.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Madurai||176 cases, in south TN, 112 in central dists||Madurai: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases was above 170 for the second day in a row on Friday in the ten southern districts though there were no deaths due to the disease for the third day in a row. With 176 Covid-19 cases, the tally so far in south Tamil Nadu stands at 1,29,968 cases, including 1,255 active ones, 1,26,645 recoveries and 2,068 deaths. As for the central region comprising eight districts, 112 fresh cases and one death were registered. The regional tally touched 71,106 with 951 active cases. The most number of cases in south TN, 34, was reported in Madurai, followed by Tirunelveli (31) and Dindigul (30). Dindigul continues to see a rise in cases as the active cases in the district crossed the 200 mark within a matter of days. With 232 and 202 active cases respectively, Madurai and Dindigul districts have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Tirunelveli (171) and Kanyakumari (147). Three districts, Tuticorin (7), Sivaganga (6) and Ramanathapuram (2) reported cases in single digits on Friday. In the central region, Thanjavur and Trichy shared the top spot by recording 24 cases each on Friday. The number took positive cases so far to 16,545 and 13,521 in these districts respectively, the highest in the region. However, both the district reduced their case loads considerably with Thanjavur having 209 active cases and Trichy 180. The lowest number of fresh cases was reported in Perambalur district which registered two cases in the day. Ariyalur recorded six fresh cases and has 31 active cases. Pudukottai and Karur districts shared the same number of 13 new cases on Friday. The death toll in the region rose by one to 902 with the death of a 79-year-old man at a private hospital in Chennai on December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/176-cases-in-south-tn-112-in-central-dists/articleshow/79574293.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Cong wins Nagpur graduates’ poll for the first time in 58 yrs||Nagpur: Abhijit Wanjari of Congress created history by winning the Nagpur division graduate constituency election for the first time after formation of Maharashtra. Since the last 58 years the seat had been held by the BJP and its predecessor Jan Sangh. It was represented by Gangadharrao, father of former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, union transport minister Nitin Gadkari among others.Wanjari defeated Joshi by 18,910 votes and was declared winner when he completed the quota (50% valid votes plus one). He polled 61,701 votes against 42,791 polled by the BJP candidate Sandeep Joshi. The winner polled 55,947 first preference votes while the runner-up secured 41,540. However, as Wanjari had not completed the quota, counting of the second preference votes started and continued for seventeen rounds as candidates polling lowest votes were eliminated.The loss is a big setback for senior BJP leaders Gadkari and Fadnavis. Both had thrown their weight behind Joshi. On the other hand, not many Congress leaders had supported Wanjari. Help from the NCP and Shiv Sena was negligible.A major factor in Congress’ victory in Nagpur division was the sharp increase in voting percentage. In 2014, when Anil Sole of the BJP had defeated Congress leader Baban Taywade, the voting percentage was only 37%. This time around, it was a record (over 64%). Congress leaders had predicted on the polling day itself that this record voting would help them and they were right.For this election, the names of some 81,000 odd voters were not included in the electoral rolls. Congress leaders had told TOI before the elections that this would hit BJP as most of them were saffron voters. This proved to be true.Wanjari supporters said that he had nursed the constituency since the last two years by enrolling new voters who would vote for him. He even held village and town level meetings. On the other hand, Joshi was fielded at the last moment, leaving Sole in the lurch.The rivalry with former municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and the IAS officer’s unceremonious transfer may have cost Joshi some votes in Nagpur city. Soon after Mundhe’s transfer, Covid cases spiked in the city. Many believe that Joshi was instrumental in the commissioner’s transfer.Some BJP leaders said that replacing sitting MLC Anil Sole with Joshi was a bad move as it angered teachers, who form a sizeable portion of the graduates’ constituency voters. Sole was a teacher and had good rapport with the teaching community.BSP always fields a candidate but this time it chose not to, apparently to avoid division of votes at the cost of Congress. This helped Wanjari a lot even though the other Dalit candidates got some votes.Congress cabinet minister Sunil Kedar said that voters had endorsed the work done by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in its first year.City BJP president Pravin Datke alleged that Congress won by playing the caste card. “Even we (BJP) must have also made mistakes. We will do a thorough introspection and start working for the next election six years down the line from today itself. We can’t ascribe the defeat to the caste card only,” said Datke.REPORT CARD* Record voting of over 64% against 37% in 2014* BJP alleges Congress played the caste card* Wanjari nursed constituency for two years* Joshi’s tiff with Mundhe may have cost him some votes * Over 80,000-odd voters not included in electoral rolls* BSP did not contest * Many teachers voted against BJP because sitting MLC Sole was dropped||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cong-wins-nagpur-graduates-poll-for-the-first-time-in-58-yrs/articleshow/79571496.cms||Ashish Roy
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||14-year-old girl gang-raped in Nainital’s Koshiya Kutoli, accused on the run||Nainital: The revenue police in Koshiya Kutoli block of Nainital district on Friday booked three men for allegedly gang-raping a 14-year-old girl. The minor was found unconscious by villagers in a forest on Wednesday. She is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Haldwani. Her condition is said to be out of danger. The accused are absconding. Koshiya Kutoli sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Prateek Jain said, “The girl was alone at home, as her parents were away for some work, when the three men abducted her and took turns to rape her in a forest. She was discovered by villagers the next morning, who informed her parents. She is receiving treatment in Halwani and has now regained consciousness.” The girl’s family filed a written complaint with revenue police, which filed an FIR on Wednesday, “The girl’s medical examination was conducted on Thursday, which confirmed rape,” Jain said. According to the girl’s parents, she knew the accused well. “The complaint says the men are from the same area as the girl. The trio is on the run and we are still trying to trace them,” Jain said. The FIR has been registered under section 376 (punishment for rape) of the IPC as well as relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The district administration said the case will now be transferred to the regular police for further investigation. “The regular police have already started the process of investigation and the official order will also be given soon,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/14-year-old-girl-gang-raped-in-nainitals-koshiya-kutoli-accused-on-the-run/articleshow/79571033.cms||Prashant Jha
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Disabled women get beautiful, stylish makeover in photo shoot||Coimbatore: Prabhavathi Bhaskaran, 39, a poet and author, was taken aback when she got a call from Ladies Circle India and city-based NGO Cheshire Homes, inviting her for a makeover and photo shoot. “I first thought I was too old and looked too ordinary for a photo shoot,” says the mother of a teenager. “But after the makeover, when I saw myself in the mirror and in the video, I felt like a new person. I felt I was so much more beautiful and stylish than I ever believed myself to be,” she adds.She was one of the 16 disabled women who were featured in a video titled ‘Six yards of happiness’, featuring each of their success stories, that was released on December 3, the World Disability Day. It was released by Mrs India Earth Classic Jaya Mahesh.The Ladies Circle in October-end had decided to celebrate women who were rising above their disabilities, showing courage, and were inspiring others too to see past their disabilities. They got in touch with city-based NGO Cheshire Homes to help them identify such disabled women who have achieved a lot in various fields. “We felt that physically challenged women were treated with inequality and are not given due importance to voice their opinions. We also believe that the disability besides putting them at a disadvantage, also affects their confidence,” says Kaavya, a member of Ladies Circle. “So, we decided to give them a makeover, so that people could notice their grit and strength,” a statement from Ladies Circle said.Ladies Circle and Cheshire Homes got in touch with Green Trends Salon for the makeovers, IAB and 3 Monks Creative Studio for the photo shoot and video. The makeovers and shoots were done in November-mid. “I always felt I could not carry off myself or walk like a normal person,” says Prabhavathi who has been walking on all fours or a wheelchair since the age of four. “But this made me feel as good looking as normal people,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/disabled-women-get-beautiful-stylish-makeover-in-photo-shoot/articleshow/79573478.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Deer carcass seized, 3 held||Coimbatore: The forest department registered a case against three tribal men and slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 each on them for looting the carcass of a spotted deer which was killed by a pack of stray dogs near Colony Pudur village at Gopanari east beat in Periyanaickenpalayam forest range on Thursday morning. Gopanari section forester Madhusoodanan, forest guard Annamalai and anti-poaching watchers received information from farmworkers that three men had looted the carcass of the deer for meat after it was killed by stray dogs. The forest department team came to the spot and held an inquiry with R Kurundasalam, 36, from Colonypudur near Tholampalayam, M Murugan, 35, from Mattathukadu in Palakkad district, and M Gopal, 32, from Colonypudur. During inquiry, the trio confessed that they looted the carcass. They were taken to the office of the forest ranger at Periyanaickenpalayam, where officials booked a case under the Wildlife Protection Act against them and slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 each against the trio.“The trio was not involved in hunting. However, they looted the carcass which is a compoundable offence. So, we fined and warned them,” Periyanaickenpalayam range officer Selvaraj said. “The villagers promised us that they won’t indulge in any such activities in future and they will also hand over the people if anyone violates the protection of wildlife act,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/deer-carcass-seized-3-held/articleshow/79573483.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Health workers on Covid duty denied postal voting in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When the Covid-19 patients are being provided with facilities for voting in the local body polls, the doctors and other healthcare workers who are treating them are denied of this constitutional right. Even when the various categories of employees who are involved in election work are given permission for postal voting, the doctors and the healthcare workers have been denied even the postal ballots. Those who are in the Covid-19 duty at the hospitals, first and second line treatment centres will not be able to cast their votes since they have been asked to remain in their respective centres even during the polling day. Same is the situation with the doctors, nurses and other para medical staff who have been deployed for Sabarimala duty. They have also been denied permission for postal voting. “As per the order of the state election commission, various categories of staff involved in election related works were given permission for postal voting. Unfortunately, we are not granted this facility. As most doctors are involved in Covid-19 response activities and in election related works, they are required to be present in their parent institutions continuously especially during the day of poll,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, state president of Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA). The guidelines for health department in relation to “voting by Covid-19 active positive electors and electors in quarantine” issued by the health services department instruct that hospital superintendents of major hospitals and medical officers in charge of primary and community health care centres, including those in charge of first line and second line treatment centres, should be available in the institutions all through the election day. “We had written to the state election commission and also to the government that most doctors working in the state health services department will be deprived of their constitutional right for voting unless the order is modified to include the doctors of state health services engaged in Covid-19 duty. However, there has been no assurance on this yet,” said Dr G S Vijayakrishnan, state secretary of KGMOA. “It is very strange that even the patients have been given the right to vote but the health workers are not. When all the government officials who are involved in the poll duty are given the postal ballot facility, only the health workers are being denied this,” added Dr Vijayakrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/health-workers-on-covid-duty-denied-postal-voting/articleshow/79571029.cms||Rajiv G
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Inter-district gang of robbers busted||Ludhiana: The police on Friday claimed to have busted an inter-district gang of robbers, with the arrest of four.Thirteen cars, a scooter and sharp-edged weapons were recovered from Mandeep Singh, 30, of Faridkot; David, 50, of Ferozepur; Vishal, 19, also of Ferozepur; and Kulwinder Singh, 18, of Moga. With their arrest, at least 15 cases have been solved, said cops.Joint commissioner of police (JCP-city) Bhagirath Singh Meena said, “The accused had gathered at a vacant plot in Ayali Kalan village to plan a robbery on Friday. They were arrested on a tip-off. We have recovered 13 cars, a scooter and parts of stolen cars from them. The gang was active in Ludhiana, Amritsar, Batala, Nakodar and Ferozepur. After stealing vehicles, the accused would sell those to scrap dealers. They were also involved in snatching and robbery cases.”The official said Mandeep has nine criminal cases against him, including those of snatching, robbery and theft. Vishal has 10 cases against him, including assault, snatching and robbery ones. David is an accused in a theft case. A case has been registered under sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/inter-district-gang-of-robbers-busted/articleshow/79571031.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Man suffers cardiac arrest after tiff with neighbours over walking dog||Ludhiana: A man and his son were “brutally thrashed by their neighbours” in BRS Nagar following an argument over walking a pet dog. During the tiff, the elderly man suffered a cardiac arrest and internal bleeding. The injured have been identified as Yatin Marwaha, 30, and his father RK Marwaha, 66, hosiery businessmen from BRS Nagar. The FIR has been lodged against Amarjeet Singh and his sons, Prabhjot Singh and Charanjit Singh, readymade garment traders, from the same locality. Yatin said, “Around 7am on December 1, I took my dog for a walk to a neglected park adjoining the house of the accused. Amarjeet objected to it and it led to a verbal spat. He then called his two sons and they started beating me up.” On hearing Yatin’s screams, his parents rushed out. “When my father came to my rescue, they started thrashing him too. Due to the stress, he suffered a cardiac arrest,” he added.The family quickly took him to a hospital. “The same day, I gave a complaint to the police. But for two days, they did not lodge an FIR. I approached a few people to get an FIR filed. But, it does not include the appropriate sections. In my father’s medical certificate, the doctor has mentioned that the cardiac arrest was caused by stress and internal bleeding. I will approach senior police officials with a fresh complaint and the medical report of my father to get more sections added to the FIR. The accused are roaming free,” he said.BRS Nagar head constable Salwinder Pal said, “A case has been lodged on the complaint of Yatin. We have not yet received the medical report of his father. More sections could be added as per the report. As of now, the case has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-suffers-cardiac-arrest-after-tiff-with-neighbours-over-walking-dog/articleshow/79571025.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||MCemployees push for better working conditions for sewermen, sanitation staff||Ludhiana: The Municipal Employees Sangharsh committee members held a gate rally outside zone A office on Friday while raising the demands for the regularisation of sewermen and sanitation staff. They also demanded sanitation employees who are working on regular basis should be given promotion according to seniority. Apart from this, the union members demanded reinstatement of recently suspended chief sanitary inspector and two sanitary inspectors. In the memorandum of demands, the employees mentioned that for over 22 years, almost 3,000 sanitation staff and 800 sewermen are working either at DC rate or 70% salary. “The government did not pay attention towards their regular postings after 2011. Similarly, there are around 2,500 regular sanitation employees who are waiting for the seniority list from a long time. The employees should be given their due promotion. Also a new pay scale should be introduced for sanitation supervisors. The sanitation inspectors should get salary on the basis of 6th pay commission now,” stated the memorandum. The civic body should get health insurance worth Rs 50 lakh for the field employees working either regularly or contractual basis so that in case of any incident they should get health insurance cover, added the employees. The employees who got retired from the civic body should not be hired on contract again by the MC, said the employees. Other demands are: The sanitation staff and sewermen should be given the status of sanitation warriors and all the sanitation employees, sewermen and drivers should be given pension. The employees union also demanded that sanitary inspectors and chief sanitary inspectors should be given 30 litres fuel on the pattern of junior engineers because of fieldwork. Chairman of employees union, Ashwani Sahota, said the mayor, after listening to their demands admitted that regular postings were pending. According to Sahota, the mayor assured that he will fulfil demands that can be done at local level in 30 days while demands that need approval from higher authorities will have to be discussed with local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mcemployees-push-for-better-working-conditions-for-sewermen-sanitation-staff/articleshow/79571021.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Many couples putting baby plans on hold due to Covid-19||HYDERABAD: The uncertainty of whether a pregnant woman can take the Covid-19 vaccine is driving many couples to put their pregnancy plans on hold. Among couples who are on fertility treatment and those over 30 years of age, further delay may not be advisable and many might have already lost the window period, say experts. While gynaecologists and fertility experts are pushing patients who plan to conceive not to delay their plans any further, there continues to be apprehension among patients to proceed during the pandemic. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a 35-year-old fertility patient said, “We had begun our fertility treatment in the latter half of last year but due to the pandemic, it was put on hold. Initially, we thought it would take 3 to 4 months, now we are waiting for the vaccine and will plan the pregnancy then since I am diabetic.” There is yet another roadblock that doctors are facing in advising patients. “Since November, couples have started returning for treatment, but a lot of them still want to wait for the vaccine. Many are asking us whether it can be taken when they are pregnant. But since nothing is known about how the vaccine will react and whether it is safe to be taken during pregnancy, we cannot say. This has again resulted in delay,” said Dr Preethi Reddy, IVF and fertility specialist at Birthright by Rainbow Hospitals. Explaining the impact of the delay, Dr Saroja Koppala, fertility consultant, Nova IVF Fertility Hyderabad said, “We have seen a drastic drop in the ovarian reserve of some of the patients from March to December, especially in the 37-38 years age group. In some people who already had a low ovarian reserve, the drop is so dramatic that they will now have to go for a donor egg. Whoever is in the stage of having a less ovarian reserve, it is important to get their levels checked and begin treatment or in patients undergoing cancer treatment, it is important to freeze the oozytes.” Dr Durga G Rao, medical director and co-founder, Oasis Fertility, also advises against any further delay. “Most couples opting for IVF treatment are those who have exhausted all other options of conceiving. In the process, they would have frittered away valuable years, some even crossing their prime reproductive years. Any further delay in seeking IVF care may permanently close the window of opportunity for many, as they would get biologically older to bear healthy offspring,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-couples-putting-baby-plans-on-hold-due-to-covid/articleshow/79572056.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Model, mother try to extort Rs 10 lakh||AHMEDABAD: An real estate broker from the Krishnagar area of city on Thursday filed a complaint of extortion against a model, 20, and her mother alleging that they sought Rs 10 lakh from him threatening him to implicate his son, who was in relationship with the model, in a fabricated case. To avoid this, the broker was allegedly asked to get his son married to the model. On the other hand, the model on Wednesday filed a cross complaint alleging that the broker’s son raped her at her home and in a hotel in Chandkheda. In his FIR, Harish Gyanani, 46, said that his son Vishal Gyanani, who runs a garments business in Kalupur, had come into contact with the model in Dubai where he had a stopover during his flight towards Canada in August 2019. He said that Vishal had returned to Ahmedabad in November 2019 after which he used to meet the model. “As they were in a relationship, they often went for outings. Around four months ago, Vishal came to know that she had relationships with other men also, so he stopped talking to her,” Harish states in the FIR. On October 27, the woman called up Vishal and asked on why he had stopped talking with her. “When she was told by Vishal that he did not want to continue in the relationship, she and her mother threatened to implicate him in a false case,” the complainant told the cops. He also states in the FIR that he has audio and video recordings of the woman and her mother threatening his son seeking Rs 10 lakh extortion. “Her mother called me up and met also seeking Rs 10 lakh for not filing a complaint,” he said. The model states in her FIR that Vishal used to take her to different places, including hotels and guest houses, and raped her. He also raped her at her house, she alleged. Krishnanagar police filed two complaints and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/model-mother-try-to-extort-rs-10l/articleshow/79572058.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Varanasi||Candidate backed by SP wins Varanasi MLC (teachers) seat||VARANASI: Samajwadi Party gave a jolt to Bharatiya Janata Party in its citadel as the candidate supported by it, Lal Bihari Yadav, emerged victorious on Varanasi seat of MLC (teachers) constituency by defeating Independent Dr Pramod Kumar Mishra even as BJP-supported Chetnarain Singh could not retain this seat and finished third. With the completion of counting of votes of first preference of Varanasi seat of MLC (graduate) constituency SP’s Ashutosh Sinha had maintained a lead of 2,014 votes over BJP’s sitting MLC Kedarnath Singh. Counting of second preference votes continued till late evening and final result is expected by Saturday late morning. Ddditional returning officer and district magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma informed TOI that after 11th round of counting for teachers constituency Yadav bagged 7,248votes while his close contender Mishra was eliminated after getting 6,830. In 12th and final round, the process of Mishra’s vote transfer to Yadav’s account was followed. It increased the difference of 936 votes between the votes secured by Yadav and Mishra. After seeking permission to declare result from election commission, he said, Yadav was declared as elected. ARO and DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal gave the victory certificate to Yadav, who accorded warm welcome from his supporters and party leaders gathered at Pahadia Mandi on Friday noon. Talking to reporters, Yadav termed it a victory of teachers of non-aided educational instituted. He said that he will work for the welfare of teachers in all categories. BJP had put its weight after two-time MLC Chetnarain Singh in this election. However, since the commencement of counting of votes, Singh stayed at third place and a neck and neck fight remained evident between Yadav and Mishra. Singh could secure 4,858 votes. As chances for his return in contest had ended with the beginning of counting of votes of second preference the counting agents from BJP camps had left the counting venue while no leader of party looked ready to react over results on Friday. The counting of votes of second preference of Varanasi seat of MLC (graduate) constituency continued till late evening. As per the election officials, the counting of votes of first preference took place in five rounds. Since the beginning of counting SPs Ashutosh Sinha had taken lead over BJP’s Kedarnath Singh. Till the end of these five rounds Sinha had secured 18,679 to take lead of 2014 over Singh, who managed 16,665.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/candidate-backed-by-sp-wins-varanasi-mlc-teachers-seat/articleshow/79572971.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Kumaoni and Garhwali languages included in Google keyboard||Nainital: Google’s Indic keyboard (that allows users to type in their own native languages) will now feature the two most prominent languages of Uttarakhand – Kumaoni and Garhwali. Users wishing to use the two languages can now type in the words in Roman script and the text will show up in Garhwali and Kumaoni in the Devanagari script. This move has been hailed by many people in the Himalayan state who wished to communicate on phone and social media in their own language. Hayat Singh Rawat – editor of a monthly journal in Kumaoni titled ‘Pahroo’ — said that induction of these languages will help the youth learn them and provide a connection to their roots. “We know that the young generation is getting disconnected from these languages. But the option to write in these languages even if youngsters do not know them will surely connect them to their roots,” Rawat said. In a similar vein, Deva Bhatt, former professor of Kumaun University, said that it is a proud moment for people of Uttarakhand that the two languages of the state have been included in the platform. Bhatt said that both the languages date back to several centuries and their literature is as rich as other languages of North India like Awadhi and Brajbhasha. “Both these languages are rich in history and literature. These languages can be traced back to around 14th century. In fact, Kumaoni used to be the court language in the middle ages as well and recently, some evidence has revealed that it is over 1,000 years old,” Bhatt said. Both Kumaoni and Garhwali are Indo-Aryan languages which are spoken by over four million people. According to Bhatt, these languages were passed down orally but in the 17th and the 18th centuries, a literary tradition was also developed. “It is necessary for us to preserve and protect these languages and therefore, engaging youths in the process is necessary,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumaoni-and-garhwali-languages-included-in-google-keyboard/articleshow/79571022.cms||Prashant Jha
December 5, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi Adityanath inaugurates Udyog Bhawan at GIDA||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, on Friday, inaugurated the newly-constructed Udyog Bhawan building at Gorakhpur Industrial Development Area (GIDA) in Gorakhpur and also planted a sapling on the campus. Speaking on the occasion, he said, “Chamber of Industries is leading organisation of industrial development in east UP. GIDA was established in 1989 and after that a building for chamber of industries was demanded and today a new Udyog Bhawan building has been inaugurated.” “We all need to play a positive role to give momentum to industrial development. The environment of safety and comfort has been created in the state leading to huge amount of investment in the state. Big investment is the base of traditional industry and to promote traditional industry, industrial policy has been promulgated,” said the CM. “Terracotta has selected under ODOP and permission has been given to potters to dig out soil for free. Training, kits and bank loans are being provided to artisans in order to make the state self-reliant. The base of industrial development is infrastructure and Gorakhpur is connected to all metros and at present seven airports are already working in the state and work is undergoing at 14 airports. International Airport is being constructed at Kushinagar and Expressway is running all across the state,” Yogi said. The CM gave instructions to increase GIDA land bank as Gorakhpur has huge possibilities of industrial development and also gave instructions to ensure employment at local level and to make the process of allocation fully online. “The issues of industrialists should be resolved within time, bankers should be linked with industries and rules should be made keeping in view to make business approachable and work should be done with transparency,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-inaugurates-udyog-bhawan-at-gida/articleshow/79572940.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||4 more arrested in deer killing case||Hyderabad: Forest department officials on Friday arrested four more accused for chopping of a sambar deer’s hind legs and killing it two days ago near Renya thanda in Kothaguda mandal of Mahabubabad district. While the officials had arrested two persons on December 2, the day the incident took place, the other four were arrested within the next 24 hours. Forest range officer Lakshmi Narayana said, “These six culprits are residents of the same village where the incident took place. They attacked the sambar deer in an attempt to poach the wild animal and sell its meat.” The six poachers allegedly attacked the deer with an axe when it entered the village to drink water from a nearby lake on Tuesday. Officials said the accused fled from the spot when the locals rushed to the place after hearing the animal screaming in pain, but were later arrested by the anti-poaching teams of the forest department. It may be noted that sambar deer is a protected species under schedule-3 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-more-arrested-in-deer-killing-case/articleshow/79572097.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Terai farmers from U’khand stay put at UP-Delhi border||Rudrapur: Hundreds of agitating farmers from the Terai region of Uttarakhand, who have gone to Delhi to join the protest against the three agricultural reform laws, have congregated at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at Gazipur. And even as the area continues to remain under heavy police cover with multilayered barricades in place, vehicles with several farmers from various towns of the Himalayan state’s Terai region are still reaching the protest site. Meanwhile, police have closed routes on the national highway connecting Ghaziabad wth Delhi as farmers remain adamant on their demand for scrapping of the contentious reform laws. Talking to TOI over phone, Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Mahasabha, said, “It has been more than 48 hours that thousands of farmers are sitting here on protest at the Gazipur border. We tried to cross the police barricades but were stopped by the force deputed there. We will not resort to violence in a protest which has so far been peaceful but we want the Central government to repeal these draconian laws. We are sleeping and eating on the road.” Another agitating Terai farmer Harbhajan Singh said, “These laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving us at the mercy of the big corporates. We will not budge an inch till our demand of revoking these detrimental laws is not met.” It is worth mentioning that four rounds of talks between the farmers’ representatives and the Centre have ended without conclusion and both the parties now hope to resolve the deadlock in their fifth meeting on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-from-ukhand-stay-put-at-up-delhi-border/articleshow/79571041.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunken brawl between friends ends in murder||Hyderabad: A drunken banter between two friends ended in a murder at KPHB Colony in the early hours of Friday. The deceased was identified as Sravan, 27, and the accused, Harshavardhan Reddy. Sravan and Harshavardhan Reddy have been working at Sri Krishna Pharma company at IDA Bollarum. They have been staying at Sri Srinivasa Men’s Hostel on Road Number 3 of KPHB Colony. Sravan and Harshavardhan were colleagues and close friends, KPHB inspector S Laxmi Narayana said. “Of late, minor differences cropped up between the two friends due to work-related and personal issues. On Thursday night, Sravan and Harshavardhan consumed liquor. Under the influence of alcohol, Harshavardhan intentionally picked up an argument with Sravan and the latter used abusive language against him,” the inspector said. Harshavardhan called his brother in-law, Srikanth Reddy, who also works at another pharma company in the city, and asked him to rush to his hostel. “Harshavardhan told Srikanth that Sravan abused him. Both Harshavardhan and Srikanth punched Sravan and pushed him to the floor. After Sravan fell on the floor, Harshavardhan hit him on the abdomen and chest with a boulder. After the assault, the duo fled from the hostel,” the inspector said. Sravan sustained severe internal injuries and he was rushed to a nearby hospital by others in the hostel in the early hours of Friday. Sravan was declared brought dead at the hospital. Based on the complaint of the victim’s family, a murder case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC. Police reportedly picked up the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunken-brawl-between-friends-ends-in-murder/articleshow/79572062.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Nilgiris gets ready to open tourist spots||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Tourist spots in the Nilgiris would be reopened for the public from Monday (December 7), said district collector J Innocent Divya here on Friday. Presently, only botanical gardens are open for visitors. All the tourist spots in the Nilgiris were closed in the last week of March after the Covid-19 outbreak and the subsequent lockdown. While the government botanical garden, rose garden, tea park near Doddabetta, arboretum in Ooty and the Sim’s Park at Coonoor were opened for the public on September 9, Ooty Lake, Pykara Lake, Doddabetta peak and other tourist attractions in the district are still remaining closed. Divya said, “All the tourist spots managed by the tourism department and eco-development committees will be opened for the public from Monday. As they were remaining closed for months together, works are on to spruce and disinfect all the tourist spots.” While all the gardens fall under the horticulture department, lakes are managed by the tourism department. Tourism activities at the ‘shooting spot’, Doddabetta, Lamb’s Rock are managed by the eco-development committees. The collector said the government was yet to make an announcement on reopening the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) for the public. She also requested the tourists to cooperate with the district administration by adhering to the standard operating procedures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-gets-ready-to-open-tourist-spots/articleshow/79573512.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||1 year later, cops register FIR against 6 in murder of 26-year-old man||Ludhiana: Almost one year after the death of a 26-year-old man, the Shimlapuri police have lodged a murder case against six accused and their unidentified accomplice, on Friday. The man was found dead on his scooter at Barota road near Sidhwan Canal on October 9, 2019. Initially, the police have proceeded with Section 174 of CrPC. The deceased was Daya Singh, 26, of Randhirgarh village of Jagraon, a graduate student. He was living in a paying guest accommodation in Bachittar Nagar near Guru Nanak Dev Engineer College, Gill road, Ludhiana. According to the family, the accused, who were friends of Daya were roaming near the spot where Daya was found dead. They said CCTV footage could prove that. Importantly, after lodging a murder case, the police have recommend narco test on the accused, identified as Amandeep Singh of Badar Dod village of Moga, Harsimran Singh of Rama village of Moga, Harry of Sandor village of Sangrur, Naman of Chandigarh, Kashyap of Phillaur and Sumit of Patiala. The accused were students of the engineering college and were living in the same paying Guest accommodation as the deceased. Complainant, Balwinder Singh, father of the deceased stated that his son Daya was found dead on intervening night of Dussehra in 2019. The body was lying on the scooter, but his clothes were worn disorderly and had mud over it. There were scratches on the upper side of his feet which suggested that he was dragged to the spot. He added that he had filed a complaint on February 7 and then June 11 and also handed over the CCTV footage to the police to lodge FIR against Daya’s friends but the police did not listen to him. After a long investigation the police have registered a case. Father said, “Daya was living in the paying guest accommodation for six months before his murder. His elder brother Sukhdeep Singh is settled in Canada. We want the police to arrest the accused and question them to know why they have murdered my son,” he added. Investigating officer from police station Shimlapuri, sub-inspector Sukhwinder Singh said an FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC has been lodged against the accused following an investigation. The autopsy report of the deceased had suggested that he had died of cardiac arrest. Police said on the statement of Daya’s cousin, the police had proceeded with 174 of CrPC initially. Now with the fresh complaint and investigation, murder case has been registered, said the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1-year-later-cops-register-fir-against-6-in-murder-of-26-year-old-man/articleshow/79571040.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||No access to walkway yet||Kolkata: In its old avatar, Majerhat bridge had a high pedestrian traffic volume. The two pavements on either side were always busy. In the new avatar though, pedestrians have been barred from using the bridge for now. They will be able to use the bridge around 10 days later when construction of the pedestrian walkway is completed. Unlike the earlier bridge, the pedestrian walkway is not continuous from one end to another, but separated from the bridge-carriageway by a tall guard wall. The pedestrian walkway can be approached from a staircase from the service road below the bridge. “The pedestrians cannot take buses or catch other vehicles from the bridge, which used to be the practice on the old bridge, making it accident-prone,” said a traffic inspector. “Majerhat railway station generates a huge volume of pedestrians who just cross the bridge to reach the other side for jobs or other necessities. This is why the pedestrian walkway is more than necessary. But paucity of space did not allow us to have the walkway on either side of the bridge. On the western side, the Metro station will be parallel to the bridge,” said an engineer associated with the design of the bridge. Engineers TOI spoke to said the 185-metre walkway, on the eastern flank of the bridge, is complete but the work on staircases from the two service roads on either side of the canal is under way. “Work on the staircase got stuck as we realised we had hit the foundation of the old bridge. The foundation had to be dismantled. Then, there were around 20 electrical lines of CESC that had to be shifted elsewhere, stalling up the work on staircases further. Now that all the utilities have been cleared, we will prepare the staircases within 10 days,” said a PWD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-access-to-walkway-yet/articleshow/79572049.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Some positive news: Case fatality rate of dist drops||Ludhiana: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases is witnessing a rise, the district’s case fatality rate (CFR) has dropped to below 4%. The case fatality rate is the proportion of deaths from a disease compared with the total number of people diagnosed with it for a particular period.As per the recent state media bulletins, the CFR for Ludhiana has been 3.9% for the past two days (December 2 and 3), which is 0.1% lower as compared with the rate in seven days before that. The data suggests that the CFR had reached the highest value of 4.3% on September 10 and remained the same till September 15 before witnessing a drop.An analysis of the data since August 1 shows that on the date, the rate in Ludhiana district was 3%, which increased to 3.5% till August 16 and further to 3.8% till August 31. The rate on September 1 was 3.9% and it reached 4% the next day before rising to 4.3% on September 10 and then dropping to 4.1% by September 18. It remained the same till October 3. The CFR then increased to 4.2% on October 4, remained the same till October 23 and then fell to 4.1% on October 24. After remaining at 4.1% till November 12, it dropped to 4% the next day and remained at the same value till December 1 before dropping to present value. The state health department’s media bulletin containing data till Thursday evening suggests that Ludhiana was at the sixth spot among the districts of the state in CFR. Ropar had the highest CFR percentage in the state at 5.1%. Tarn Taran and Fatehgarh Sahib were second and third with CFR of 4.8% and 4.6%, respectively. Fazilka had the lowest CFR of 1.7%.Ludhiana’s CFR of 3.9% is 0.7% more than the percentage for the state.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said, “CFR has witnessed a decrease as fewer deaths were being reported from the district now. This is mainly because of the fact that now we have facilities in place that were arranged during the first wave.” Advising caution, he said people should follow the pandemic rules to keep cases in check.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/some-positive-news-case-fatality-rate-of-dist-drops/articleshow/79571035.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Noted bookman Jayant Meghani passes away||AHMEDABAD: Jayant Meghani, noted bookman, editor, publisher and son of famous Gujarati writer late Jhaverchand Meghani, passed away on Friday at his residence in Bhavnagar. He was 83. “He was working on his computer when he breathed his last. He was a heart patient but was all hale and hearty. I think, it was a natural death. Apart from his literary achievements, I would like to say that he got a lot of love from people,” said Niraj Meghani, his nephew. His body and eyes have been donated as per his wishes. Sanjay Bhave, a columnist and assistant professor at H K Arts College, who has known Meghani for a long time, said that he was editing one of his towering works in recent times – the 19-volume series of ‘Collected Works of Jhaverchand Meghani’. The first 12 of this scholarly piece under his editorship have already been published by Gujarat Sahitya Academy and he was working on the remaining volumes. His father Jhaverchand Meghani was a famous novelist, poet, short story writer and social reformer. Mahatma Gandhi had given him the title of Rashtriya Shayar. Jayant Meghani’s recent works include translation of Mittal Patel’s book called ‘Sarnama Vina Na Manviyo’ (loosely translates to people without postal address) from Gujarati to English. Meghani was born in Botad where he did his schooling and later moved to Bhavnagar for pursuing BCom studies. Those who have been brought up in Bhavnagar or have lived there for quite some time would vividly remember Prasar, a book store that he ran for a very long time before shutting it down recently. He also ran a publishing house in the same name which he brought some volumes of Jhaverchand Meghani and most notably Irving Stone’s Lust for Life that was translated by his brother Vinod Meghani which is considered as a landmark in Gujarati publication. In 1962, he completed his diploma in library science from a college in Vadodara and served as a librarian at Gandhi Smurti library in Bhavnagar. As a librarian he removed locks of all the cupboards for he believed that the ‘best library is the one whose shelves are empty’. “He was a man of few words and a very unassuming person. Many would not know his contribution to Gujarati literature. In his works, he would write his own name in very small letters making it difficult for others to read,” said Bhave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/noted-bookman-jayant-meghani-passes-away/articleshow/79572068.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kanpur||BJP workers manhandle SP, cops injured in scuffle||JHANSI: Several police officials sustained minor injuries and SP (city) was allegedly manhandled by the BJP workers following scuffle between police and the BJP workers during counting of votes of Allahabad-Jhansi block graduate constituency election on Friday. The incident took place during vote counting. On Friday afternoon, hundreds of BJP workers reportedly tried to get into the college premises to demand recounting of votes but they were stopped by the police. Alleging rigging of votes during counting as their candidate Yug Dutt Sharma was trailing behind SP candidate Maan Singh Yadav, the BJP workers had demanded recounting of votes. According to reports, the workers protested and raised slogans against the police and the administration when they were stopped at the gate. Later, they got aggressive and clashed with the police. During the scuffle, former city BJP president Pradeep Sarogi was seen attacking a police officer. The agitating workers also manhandled and pushed SP City Vivek Tripathi, snatched batons from cops and attacked them with the same. Later on, more BJP workers joined the agitation and staged a sit-in led by the MLAs, Ravi Sharma and Rajiv Singh Paricha at the college gate. The SP workers too staged a sit-in a few meters away against the BJP workers. The high voltage drama continued for a couple of hours before DM Jhansi Andra Vamsi arrived and persuaded the crowd to leave the place with assurance of recounting of votes. Talking to TOI, former city BJP city president Pradeep Saraogi said, “After getting information about rigging of votes, we wanted to lodge a complaint to the officials who were sitting inside but we were denied permission to go inside. When we protested, the police used force against us. And when our candidate was manhandled, we staged a sit-in”. SSP Jhansi, Dinesh Kumar P told TOI, “We are analyzing the video footage, and on its basis will lodge a named FIR against those who took law in their hands once the counting is over”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-workers-manhandle-sp-cops-injured-in-scuffle/articleshow/79573112.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Villagers stage protest against industrial estate||Tirupur: Residents of five villages here besieged the collectorate on Friday, opposing the plan to establish a SIPCOT industrial estate in Sevur.For the last four days, villagers from Thathanur, Pappankulam, Punchai Thamariakulam, Pothampalayam and Pulippar, located around Sevur, have been protesting against the industrial estate proposed at Thathanur near Sevur on 850 acres. The protesters said they don’t want the estate at the cost of their agricultural land. They have been staging protests in front of government offices and MLA’s office and also launched a signature campaign against the estate.On Friday, more than 300 villagers gathered in front of the collectorate, demanding to meet the collector. They said the villages were dependent on agriculture. Though there are people who work in the nearby garment units, most of them were into farming, livestock rearing and dairying. Those without agricultural lands were working as farm labourers. The industrial estate will not only take away agricultural land but also pollute the locality, thereby affecting agriculture, they said.“The government should abandon the project and stop land acquisition. We have passed resolutions to this effect in our gram sabha meetings and submitted to the government officials,’’ a protester said.The villagers said that they had been protesting for the Avinashi-Athikadavu water project for 60 years. “When the project is about to be implemented, giving a fillip to farming, the government brought in the industrial estate project and forced us out of agriculture,” said another protester.The villagers refused to drop the protest even after government officials held talks with them. They insisted on meeting collector K Vijayakarthikeyan. Finally, representatives of the villagers met the collector and submitted a petition seeking to withdraw the industrial estate project. The collector assured that their grievances would be conveyed to the government, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/villagers-stage-protest-against-industrial-estate/articleshow/79573527.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman kept away from stepson||Ahmedabad: A 44-year-old man from Meghaninagar on Thursday filed a complaint at the Women’s police station (east) alleging that her husband and in-laws do not let her to meet her stepson, 14, after her marriage in October 2019. In her FIR, the woman states that she married a man from Saraspur on October 27, 2019, who had a 14-year-old son from his first marriage. She said whenever she speaks to her stepson her husband or her in-laws prevent them from speaking saying she is not his mother.As she resisted this, they began thrashing her over petty issues and evicted her from the house eight months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-kept-away-from-stepson/articleshow/79572095.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops call in more force to tackle Majerhat bridge rush||KOLKATA: The average peak-hour traffic on the first day of Majerhat bridge service resumption has increased significantly than when it was in use before collapsing in 2018, courtesy an increase in the bridge’s vehicle-carrying capacity, a significant rise in the number of two-wheelers and cars, which was triggered by the collapse, and a large number of ‘bridge tourists’ who were there for a fun ride. Cops on morning duty said they were astounded at the sheer number of vehicles clogging the Majerhat bridge as well as the Taratala bridge from as early as 8am. To control the rush, cops suspended movement of buses for a brief period in the morning but allowed them during the peak hours as more traffic sergeants from multiple guards were called in on special duty. “The morning peak-hour traffic on Day I was much more than what we had anticipated. But it was mostly because there were a large number of passengers on cars and bikes who were not regular commuters on the route but were driving along the bridge just for the experience of it. They even drove at a slower pace than usual to film the bridge while on the move,” said a traffic sergeant posted at the Mominpore end of the bridge. The cops’ assessment was partly correct as TOI found a number of cars crawling along the middle of the bridge while its passengers stuck their head out and filmed the structure. Some bikers even parked their two-wheelers on one side of the bridge and clicked selfies. To clear traffic, sergeants on bikes even started making rounds of the bridge, asking people to keep moving and clear the traffic mess. By evening, the snarls had eased to a great extent. Motorists using the bridge, however, said they were enthralled with the first day-first ride. "It was worth the wait. The bridge looks and feels much more safe and stable. It would have been better had the bridge been ready a few months ago but I am happy that such a beautiful piece of architecture now stands in our neighbourhood," said Subhajit Roy Chowdhury, a Behala resident who drove to and from his Dalhousie office using the bridge on Friday. Transport experts TOI spoke to said before its collapse, the bridge was meant for three-lane traffic with no median dividers. Plus, the bridge road was uneven with an underlying tram track and there were pavements on either side, allowing people to jaywalk and hop on buses, slowing down traffic movement. Its peak-hour capacity then was 350 vehicles per hour. But giving away the pavements on both sides, the bridge is now capable of four-lane traffic movement. Add to that the smooth road and the bridge’s current vehicle carrying capacity — 850 per hour. “But since the roads on either side of the bridge have not had any major upgrade, peak-hour traffic congestions will linger as vehicles will have to slow down once they approach the ends,” said Ajay Das, former chief traffic transportation engineer of the state transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-call-in-more-force-to-tackle-majerhat-bridge-rush/articleshow/79572031.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Social distancing norms to be maintained in 3-day-long assembly session starting Dec 21||Dehradun: The three-day winter session of the Uttarakhand assembly is scheduled to be held in Dehradun from December 21. Keeping in mind the number of Covid-19 cases, the assembly staff would ensure proper compliance of social distancing norms. While it is yet to be confirmed, the state government may table a supplementary budget in the winter session. Speaker Assembly Prem Chand Aggarwal said, “We will follow the same procedures which were followed during the one-day assembly session in September this year.” He pointed out that social distancing would be maintained during the seating arrangements and besides the lawmakers only selected persons would be allowed inside the assembly premises. This would be the third assembly session of this year. The upcoming session is being seen as an important one as chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat would answer to the questions raised by the Opposition and his own party members. A day is reserved for each minister to answer the questions and Monday is allotted to the CM, who holds the portfolio of maximum departments including health, PWD, and power. For a long time, the Opposition Congress has been attacking the government for “avoiding” a session on Monday, which is reserved for the CM to answer questions. During the one day assembly session on September 23, the seating arrangement for 30 MLAs was made in the function hall of the state assembly’s new building in Dehradun. And ten MLAs were given seats in the reserved pavilions. Besides, seating arrangement for 31 MLAs was done in the main hall. Notably, several MLAs, including Speaker Prem Chand Aggarwal, Manoj Rawat, Pradeep Batra, BJP state president Banshidhar Bhagat, Umesh Sharma Kau, Vinod Chamoli, Deshraj Karnwal, and Kunwar Pranav Singh Champion along with two senior ministers Satpal Maharaj and Madan Kaushik have so far tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/social-distancing-norms-to-be-maintained-in-3-day-long-assembly-session-starting-dec-21/articleshow/79571052.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Protest brews against plan to draw water from Bhavani||Coimbatore: Several shops downed shutters in Mettupalayam on Friday in support of the protest against the state government’s move to draw water from Bhavani river for the Pillur III drinking water scheme and Tirupur’s fourth drinking water scheme.Activists and residents staged a protest near the Mettupalayam bus stand against the move. Shops in Sirumugai and Karamadai were also closed.“The government is already drawing water for 17 drinking water schemes from Bhavani river in Mettupalayam. Now they plan to draw water for Coimbatore corporation’s Pillur III drinking water scheme and Tirupur’s fourth drinking water scheme that require 295MLD and 195MLD respectively. This will affect the flow of the river, especially during the summer,” said T R Rangasamy, a senior member of the Mettupalayam drinking water protection committee, a forum comprising of activists and residents.“To supply water to the new drinking water schemes, the river should have 22 million cubic feet water, but the water flow is much less, according to an RTI reply,” Rangasamy said. “Instead, the government should draw water from the backwaters of Bhavani Sagar reservoir. Officials should stop the ongoing works to implement the schemes,” he said.A statement from the committee said that the locals are not against sharing water with others, but have the right to claim their share for their survival. “Water supply in and around Mettupalayam and Sirumugai is already erratic. We fear that it will become worse if more water is drawn for the schemes,” the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/protest-brews-against-plan-to-draw-water-from-bhavani/articleshow/79573559.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Kangana comments draw flak, LIP members conduct mock brain surgery||Ludhiana: Reacting to the alleged defamatory tweet by Bollywood actress Kangna Ranaut, wherein she had allegedly called the aged mother of a farmer as wager available for Rs 100, Lok Insaf Party (LIP) leader conducted “brain surgery” of the actress here on Friday evening. The leader termed the “operation” successful and claimed they found “bhoosa (dry grass) inside her brain during the surgery”. Gurkaran Tinna, vice president of LIP in Punjab, said they did “surgery” of brain of bollywood actress to find out what is in her mind that she has made such derogatory comments about their mothers. He added that this time around she crossed the limits by tweeting such comment. LIP leader also distributed laddoos among the onlookers. He added that she should be ashamed of having made such derogatory words against elderly mothers who after leaving their homes are fighting for their rights by sitting with children there. Alleging that Ranaut makes statement arbitrarily, LIP leader appealed to the people to socially boycott her by blocking her on social media and stop watching her movies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kangana-comments-draw-flak-lip-members-conduct-mock-brain-surgery/articleshow/79571053.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Gosain cremated with state honours||Ludhiana: Former cabinet minister and senior BJP leader Satpal Gosain was cremated with state honours on Friday. Leaders from BJP and other political parties attended it. Gosain had breathed his last on December 1. He had been bed-ridden from the past few months. He had died at CMC hospital. On Friday, his body was kept in a park in front of his house so that people could pay tribute. There was a huge rush of people as well as BJP workers at his last rites that were performed at Gaughat ground. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma, organisation secretary Dinesh Kumar, local leaders of the party, former health minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla, among others, were present. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and MLAs Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar from Congress; Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, former mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria from SAD attended it. The Punjab Police gave a guard of honour to him. Gosain had started his journey from BJP in 1980 and never looked back as he became a popular figure. During SAD-BJP regime, he remained a cabinet minister and the deputy speaker as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gosain-cremated-with-state-honours/articleshow/79571058.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Six held for manufacturing fake drugs||Roorkee: A team of drug control department (DCD) on Friday nabbed six men in Roorkee and recovered fake drugs worth over Rs 2 crore and packaging materials from their possession. The DCD has seized a pharma factory at Bhagwanpur near Roorkee where the accused used to manufacture fake medicines. According to DCD, they got a tip off that one Vipul Goel was involved in the manufacturing of fake drugs in Adarsh Nagar locality of Roorkee. “He had kept a large volume of different kinds of fake medicines, mainly antibiotics and packaging materials there. However, he did not have the licence for storing the drugs,” MS Rana, drug inspector (Haridwar) told TOI. The six men nabbed by the drug control department were identified as — Dinesh Pandey, Girish Snehi, Gaurav Tyagi, Vipul Goel, and two other unidentified men. “The accused used to manufacture drugs in the name of fake companies and distribute it across the country. However, we did not recover any medicine being produced in the name of top pharma companies from them,” Rana added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-held-for-manufacturing-fake-drugs/articleshow/79571060.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU receives joint patent for developing crop growth booster||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agriculture University (TNAU) and Nitta Gelatin India Ltd, an Indo-Japanese joint venture, have received a joint patent for developing a protocol to extract secondary proteins and minerals from the sludge of cattle bones and standardizing the procedures to apply it on seeds and plants to maximize yields. The patent was obtained on November 23. Funded by the venture, TNAU’s seed center carried out research for three years from 2006. The protein-based crop growth and productivity booster was sold as NutriGold (foliar spray) and SeedAid (seed coating or soaking) for 10 years in the market, said R Umarani, professor in seed science and technology, who was involved in developing the technology. They had applied for the patent in 2010. “The venture had been extracting dicalcium phosphate and gelatin from cattle bone. We have developed a protocol to extract secondary proteins and minerals like phosphorus and calcium from the sludge through distillation process and then it would be concentrated. The end product will have 20% of protein,” Umarani said. “We also standardized the application procedure, like when it should be used and how much should be used.” The extract will increase yield and improve yield quality, she said. “The only difference between NutriGold and SeedAid is the pH value. While the former is acidic, the latter is neutral.” Usage of the protein extract as foliar spray at 1 to 1.5% concentration during pre-flowering and flowering state will increase crop yield by more than 15%, a statement from TNAU said. “When applied through seed coating at 40 to 75%, seed germination rate will increase by 6 to 8% and seedling dry matter increase by 10 to 15%. When seeds are soaked in the extract at 0.5 to 0.75%, seed germination will increase by 6 to 10%.” TNAU vice-chancellor N Kumar congratulated Umarani and other scientists involved in developing the patented technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-receives-joint-patent-for-developing-crop-growth-booster/articleshow/79573533.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Sanskrit news on DD Podhigai irks TPDK||Coimbatore: Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) staged a protest in front of the Doordarshan office on Dr Balasundaram Road here on Friday, condemning the Union government for telecasting Sanskrit news on its Tamil channel DD Podhigai.DD Podhigai had launched a 15-minute Sanskrit news bulletin from December 1. TPDK cadres raised slogans against the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and condemned ‘Sanskrit imposition’.TPDK general secretary Ku Ramakrishnan said that less than 15,000 people in India speak Sanskrit. “The Union government sanctioned Rs 1,000 crore for the development of Sanskrit. But it sanctioned only Rs 10 crore for other regional languages. The Sangh Parivar is trying to impose Sanskrit in Tamil Nadu through Podhigai channel.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sanskrit-news-on-dd-podhigai-irks-tpdk/articleshow/79573549.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Video game to tell youth about misuse of antibiotics||CHANDIGARH: There has been an overuse of antibiotics during the Covid pandemic compelling the WHO to send alerts to stop the misuse globally. To make the kids between the age groups of 13 years and 18 years understand what all it means, Dr Anshu Bhardwaj, a senior scientist at IMTECH has developed and programmed a video game—ArMoR. The game is based on scientific principles, but aims to engage the younger community to avoid the under or over use of antibiotics leading to antimicrobial resistance. The teaser of the game was launched by WHO consultant, Dr Anuj Sharma, Dr Sanjeev Khosla , director IMTECH and Dr Taslimarif Saiyed director Center for Cellular and Molecular platforms, recently. “I had the idea of developing games for a very long time as I am a gamer and over years could see that a lot of scientific concepts can be represented as game strategies, this converts the idea of solving problems into a completely different scenario which is more engaging and offers replay appeal,” said Dr Anshu. The game falls under the genre of a tower defense --where the goal is to defend a player's territories by obstructing the enemy attackers, usually achieved by placing defensive structures on or along their path of attack. There are six levels in the games. In the light of ongoing pandemic, the researchers have also developed Covid level. “This level conveys the message that antibiotics do not act on viruses and only bacteria can be killed by them. A healthy immune system can keep the virus in check. The level is critical as it has been reported that overuse of antibiotics for Covid will cause more deaths,” said Dr Anshu. “For this game, the developer is Dr Raphael Goujet, my post-doctorate, whom I hired at my laboratory at Centre for Research and Interdisciplinarity, Paris last year. Now we are funded by the CSIR Jigyasa program and further development shall take place at the IMTECH. The code for the game will be released with an appropriate open source license so that others can also develop it further,” said Dr Anshu. Each level is based on scientific principles and one can move to the next level only after understanding appropriate levels of antibiotics usage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/video-game-to-tell-youth-about-misuse-of-antibiotics/articleshow/79571044.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||JP Nadda kicks off 120-day tour by offering prayers to Ganga in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: BJP national president JP Nadda kicked off his 120-day nationwide tour from Haridwar on Friday by offering prayers to the Ganga at Har-ki-Pauri and meeting seers from all the 13 akhadas as well as yoga guru Baba Ramdev and Juna Akhada chief Avdheshanand Giri. Nadda, who is on a 4-day visit to Uttarakhand, arrived by helicopter at the Bhalla Stadium in Haridwar where he was welcomed by state party chief Bansidhar Bhagat and other functionaries. Haridwar MP and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik were among those present during the events. Nadda met seers from all the 13 akhadas at the Niranjani akhada where he told them that he had come to Haridwar “to take the blessings of the saints and Mother Ganga for success of the nationwide tour.” “With the blessings of the saints, we will get spiritual strength and we will be able to make India a vishwa-guru (world leader). PM Modi is working day and night towards this end,” Nadda said. The BJP chief thereafter visited the Shantikunj ashram run by the All India Gayatri Pariwar where he said he had been a regular visitor since his student days. He also interacted with Baba Ramdev at the yoga guru’s Patanjali Yogpeeth in Bahadrabad and visited the Acharyakulam school and Patanjali research lab. In late evening, he met Juna Akhada chief Swami Avdeshanand Giri at his ashram in Kankhal. Earlier in the evening, Nadda along with his wife participated in the Ganga aarti and ritual worship of Ganga at the Brahmkund Ghat at Har-ki-Pauri. A large number of BJP functionaries were present to welcome Nadda and social distancing norms were visibly flouted. Congress workers in Haridwar staged a protest against the BJP chief and tried to wave black flags at his convoy but were detained by police. Opposition leaders said that “it reflected the hypocrisy of the BJP government that on one hand, it had suspended the Kartik Poornima festival citing Covid threat, but during the visit of its party chief, BJP workers were flouting all social distancing rules in full view of the administration but still, no action was taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-national-chief-jp-nadda-kicks-off-120-day-nationwide-tour-by-offering-prayers-to-ganga-in-haridwar/articleshow/79571046.cms||MS Nawaz
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kingpin Nirav Raichura held under PASA||AHMEDABAD: Four months after police raided his alleged gambling den in Prahladnagar, ‘con call centre’ kingpin Nirav Raichura was on Friday detained under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) and sent to a Bhuj jail. A statement from deputy commissioner of police, Zone 7, Premsukh Delu, said a proposal under PASA to detain Raichura, 38, a resident of Rivera Greens near Shantipura Circle in Sarkhej, was sent to the police commissioner on Thursday and as it was sanctioned, Raichura was held on Friday evening and sent to Palara Jail in Bhuj. Raichura is considered one of the first operators of call centre rackets and the one who helped Sagar Thakkar alias Shaggy venture into con call centres along with a politician’s son, Rachit Joshi, whose names cropped up in the multi-million dollar call centre scam in 2016. On October 27, a team of city police led by Delu raided Raichura’s office in Prahladnagar and caught him, allegedly while he was drinking liquor. Police had also found applications and websites on his mobile phone using which he was taking bets on the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket and La Liga football matches. Police also found records of certain hawala transactions and began an investigation into them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kingpin-raichura-held-under-pasa/articleshow/79572141.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Bizmen meet PSIEC MD to demand better infra at focal points||Ludhiana: Furious over the problems being faced by them in focal points and from nodal agency Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC), city businessmen on Friday met Sumit Jarangal, managing director of PSIEC. The meeting was organised at the office of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) in which dozens of businessmen and other senior officials of PSIEC were present. During the interaction, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of CICU, highlighted the major problems being faced by the industry like bad condition of roads, sewerage, street light and garbage problem. Speaking on the occasion, he said, “Focal points of Ludhiana, which were once the pride of the city, have become an eye sore now and we feel ashamed to admit before others that we have our factories in such an area where nothing in terms of infrastructure exists. We have been holding several meetings with the government departments, including PSIEC, regarding development of the area and resolution of our problems but nothing has been done.” Ahuja also added, “We are thankful to MD of PSIEC that after coming to know about our problems, he has specially come to Ludhiana to meet us and understand the core issues. We have apprised him about the worse condition of roads and also demanded an entry to focal points from main highway and also extra land in focal points should also be allowed to be used for parking the trucks and heavy vehicles, as right now these are parked on main road thereby leading to huge problems” Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, also spoke during the meeting and suggested that government should provide land for micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) at special rates in Dhanansu Focal Point so that new factories are set up there at the earliest. He also emphasised that pending work of roads in focal points should start at as soon as possible and a sub-division office of PSIEC for focal points should also be established. After listening to the grievances of the businessmen, Jarangal said he will discuss the issues put forward by the industrialists with his team and resolve them. He also said a sum of Rs 10 crore has been released on Thursday for roads by finance minister of Punjab, Manpreet Singh Badal. The MD also assured that close to 50 acre land may be given to MSMEs in Dhanansu Focal Point, and businessmen should share details about the common size of the plots that should be allotted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-meet-psiec-md-to-demand-better-infra-at-focal-points/articleshow/79571045.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Friday show a hit as cinema halls reopen after eight months||HYDERABAD: It was first day-first show in cinema halls on Friday after eight months. With the audience’s response turning out to be beyond their expectations despite the pandemic, exhibitors were thrilled. Encouraged by the turnout, some multiplexes even increased the number of shows. At a multiplex in the city, only five shows were planned initially, but owing to the good response, 12 shows were screened. M Vijendar Reddy of Telangana State Film Chamber of Commerce said there was encouraging response in the districts wherever single-screen theatres were opened. “It is an encouraging sign that people are willing to come to theatres and watch the films,” he said. At Sudershan 35 mm, theatre workers handed over roses to visitors. “I was at the ticketing counter and thanked those who came to the theatre to watch the film. This is a good sign for Telugu film producers,” Bala Govind Raju, partner of Sudershan 35 mm theatre, said. Many film buffs said their love for the big screen drove them to the theatres, notwithstanding fears over Covid-19. “We missed out on filmi action on the big screen for months. Viewing films in a theatre is a different experience,” M Kiranmayee, a BTech student, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/friday-show-a-hit-as-cinema-halls-reopen-after-8-months/articleshow/79572122.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 5, 2020||Business||Vijay Mallya’s assets worth Rs 14 crore seized in Paris||NEW DELHI: French authorities have seized fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya’s property in France worth 1.6 million (Rs 14 crore) based on a request made by ED. As per ED, his seized property is located at 32, Avenue Foch, Paris. The asset was created by allegedly laundering bank loans availed by Mallya using his Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. Mallya has defaulted on loans of over Rs 9,000 crore taken from public sector banks. The agency has attached his properties worth over Rs 11,000 crore. Mallya has already been declared a fugitive economic offender and his extradition from the UK is in progress. A chargesheet has been filed in court against him and a non-bailable arrest warrant is pending. “Extradition request of Vijay Mallya was sent to UK, and the Westminster’s magistrate’s court has ruled for his extradition on charges of money laundering on December 10, 2018,” the ED said. Mallya later appealed to the UK High Court and the Supreme Court but his application for relief was rejected with the higher courts upholding the verdict of the Westminster’s court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vijay-mallyas-assets-worth-rs-14-crore-seized-in-paris/articleshow/79574882.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||AIADMK- DMK feud creates tension||Coimbatore: Tension prevailed at Jothipuram near Veerapandi Pirivu here on Friday night after hundreds of DMK and AIADMK cadres attempted to install their party flags on the median on Mettupalayam Road. More than 50 police personnel were deployed at the spot to prevent any untoward incidents.DMK women wing leader and MP Kanimozhi will visit Mettupalayam and Periyanaickenpalayam on Saturday. To welcome her, DMK cadres attempted to install party flags. Meanwhile, AIADMK cadres attempted to install their party flags on the median to mark the fourth death anniversary of late CM J Jayalalithaa. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-dmk-feud-creates-tension/articleshow/79573569.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Residents shifted to safe shelters||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In view of the threat posed by Cyclone Burevi, the district administration has initiated precautionary measures at Ponmudi hills. On Thursday, the revenue officials evacuated many families residing in the ‘layams’ in Ponmudi and shifted them to shelters arranged at safer locations. The cyclone is expected to reach the district on Friday afternoon. According to the officials, around 450 individuals, including children, were dwelling in the layams here. As many as 181 people were shifted to the shelter facilities arranged at government schools at Vithura and Anappara. A total of 69 men, 66 women and 46 children were shifted. While the men were shifted to a government school at Vithura, the women and children were shifted to the school at Anappara. The remaining residents at the layams moved to safer places on their own. The authorities have also ensured that those who were shifted are housed in such a way that social-distancing as part of Covid-19 protocol is maintained. The revenue officials have also ensured the supply of sufficient food in both shelters. Ample supply of diesel has also been provided to operate generators in case the cyclone disrupts the power supply here. Operators of two excavators and four tipper trucks have also been told to be ready for service if necessary. “The excavators and tipper trucks were arranged as part of a contingency plan, in case the cyclone causes landslide,” said Rural SP B Ashok. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team members too visited Ponmudi and assessed the conditions. They will be returning to Ponmudi on Friday again. The evacuation procedures were carried out by officials of the police and the fire and rescue services department, monitored by the tehsildar. Special KSRTC services were operated to transport the people to shelters. Meanwhile, district collector Navjot Khosa visited the coastal hamlets at Muthalappozhi and Anchuthengu on Thursday to assess the conditions there. “Though extreme rainfall was predicted on Thursday and red alert was issued, we have passed that period without any events. As per the latest reports, the speed of the cyclone has fallen. However, we are not letting our guard down and will maintain high vigil to face even the worst outcome,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/residents-shifted-to-safe-shelters/articleshow/79561401.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Tribal girl was killed by tigress: CCMB||Hyderabad: The Centre For Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) was on Friday roped in to identify the big cat on the prowl in Kumuram Bheem-Asifabad district. The tiger had killed a 15-year-old tribal girl, Pasula Nirmala, while she was plucking cotton in an agriculture field at Mannewada on November 30. The CCMB’s DNA fingerprint test on the saliva samples of the girl revealed that the killer was a tigress. This was the second incident of a tiger attacking and killing a human being in a span of one month. In the first instance that took place on November 11, Siddam Vignesh was mauled to death by a tiger in Didiga of Asifabad district. CCMB director Rakesh Mishra said, “The Telangana forest department has sent a sample of the saliva. The sample tested shows it was a tigress. We have earlier done these tests for Maharasthra forest department.” The CCMB will verify the DNA fingerprint of the tigress by comparing it with future samples that will be collected in cases of human or animal kills. However, the principal chief conservator of forests, R Sobha, told TOI the CCMB needs more swabs for future samples of cattle kill or scat. “The sample has to be brought to CCMB within two days, otherwise it’s of no use,” she said. The forest department has decided to collect swabs from animal kill in tiger reserves including Amrabad and Kawal apart from corridor area and send them for DNA fingerprinting. Officials could not collect pugmarks in the second incident of tiger attack. “The ground was dry and people trampled over it, so we couldn’t get the pug marks in the second case,” said a forester.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribal-girl-was-killed-by-tigress-ccmb/articleshow/79572138.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Civil engineer commits suicide after losing job||Hyderabad: A civil engineer, who lost his job, committed suicide in Punjagutta on Thursday night. The deceased was K Nethaji (27), a civil engineer from Emamguda in Yellareddyguda. On Thursday night, Nethaji’s younger brother K Gandhi, a medico, found him hanging from the ceiling fan by a rope at their flat at Yellareddyguda. “After losing his job, my brother went into depression and became habituated to alcohol. At the time of the incident, I was not in the flat. When I found him hanging, I cut the rope with a knife and tried to resuscitate him. I shifted him to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead,” Gandhi told police. Police said no suicide note was found. Based on a complaint lodged by Gandhi, police booked a case and shifted the body to a hospital for autopsy. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civil-engineer-commits-suicide-after-losing-job/articleshow/79572176.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||How safe is commute on public transport in Doon?||Dehradun: Public conveyance amid the rising Covid-19 cases in the city has proven tricky for commuters and drivers. According to residents and passengers in Dehradun, the district that has been consistently reporting the highest number of coronavirus cases for quite some time now, auto rickshaws, vikrams and tempos are taking in as many people as the vehicles can accommodate, with little regard for social distancing. Drivers, meanwhile, insist they are trying their best to follow social distancing and regular sanitization, as they try to make up for the losses incurred during the pandemic. Vinay Asthana, an employee at a private firm, said, “I do not own a vehicle and am forced to take a tempo to my office. Most of the time it is full and drivers are still willing to take on more people.” Subhash Nautiyal, another commuter at Ashley Hall, however, said that not every tempo or auto rickshaw driver is violating norms. “Jam-packed vehicles are a common sight only on busy routes like Clock Tower, Raipur Road and Jakhan. At times, drivers try to cram two people into the single front seat on these routes,” Nautiyal said. Dhani Ram, an auto-rickshaw driver near Clock Tower, said, “We are doing our best to not jeopardise any lives. We always remind commuters to put their masks on before boarding the vehicle. Some people are in a hurry and ask us to ‘adjust’, which is sad.” But how do these drivers get back on their feet post lockdown? Commuters suggest they charge extra price – fare for three people from two passengers and keep one seat vacant in between. When queried about the issues, officials from the district administration said that their teams are already keeping a close watch on crowded places. Doon district magistrate Ashish Srivastava said, “Carrying passengers as per the prescribed limit and norms is very much a part of the Covid-19 guidelines. Action will be taken against anyone who violates the social distancing norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/how-safe-is-commute-on-public-transport-in-doon/articleshow/79571079.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Stalin gets rousing reception in city, leaves for Salem to protest||Coimbatore: DMK president M K Stalin was given a rousing reception when he arrived in the city on Friday evening en route to Salem.Stalin was received by DMK deputy general secretary A Raja and other leaders at the Coimbatore airport. As Stalin walked out of the airport, many cadres gathered outside cheered him. Stalin then left for Salem on road, where he is scheduled to participate in a protest against the three new farm laws brought by the Centre. All along the route too, DMK cadres had gathered to greet him. At Salem, party leader Selvaganapathy welcomed him with scores of cadres. While Stalin would lead the protest in Salem, similar protests would be held in other district headquarters too. In Coimbatore and Tirupur, the black flag protest would be held on Saturday morning. Meanwhile, in Coimbatore DMK MLA N Karthik slammed the state government for launching multiple flyover projects in the city simultaneously causing traffic congestion in all the arterial roads. Karthik said that the AIADMK government was implementing these multi-crore projects with an eye on the assembly election without giving due consideration for design and longevity of the flyovers. It was because of the hasty implementation that the Gandhipuram flyover’s design was flawed, he alleged. He also pointed out that all the key roads in the city were congested because of flyover work and Avinashi Road flyover work would aggravate the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-gets-rousing-reception-in-city-leaves-for-salem-to-protest/articleshow/79573592.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Webcasting in 1,850 sensitive booths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State election commissioner V Bhaskaran has ordered to arrange webcasting facility in 1,850 sensitive booths in the state in the upcoming local body polls. The decision has been taken on the basis of a report from the state police chief regarding the sensitive booths in the state. The maximum number of sensitive booths are present in Kannur district 785 and the least number is in Pathanamthitta 5. In addition, the commission will videograph the poll proceedings in the sensitive booths that have been identified by the district polling officials and district police chiefs. Videography will be conducted in those booths which are excluded from the list of booths where there is webcasting facility. The commission said that while the proceedings are videographed, it should be in such a way that the process of citizens exercising their electoral franchise are not recorded. The other districts where webcasting has been arranged in booths are Thiruvananthapuram (180), Kollam (35), Alappuzha (40), Kottayam (30), Idukki (12), Ernakulam (55), Thrissur (54), Palakkad (182), Malappuram (100), Kozhikode (120), Wayanad (152) and Kasaragod (100). The political parties or the candidates can request the polling officials to arrange for videographing the proceedings at their own expenses in those booths where the commission has not arranged it. The expense for videography will not be counted in the election expenses of the candidate. The state election commissioner said that the use of private vehicles for election democracy campaign, by abiding the rules, has been permitted. But the permission from the police is mandatory. The expenses will be charged against the election expenses of the candidate. A vehicle that has availed permission in the name of a candidate cannot be used by another candidate, he added. In grama panchayats, a candidate can use only a maximum of one vehicle for election campaigning. In block panchayats, the number can be three, while in district panchayats, a maximum of four vehicles can be used. In municipalities, a candidate can use a maximum of two vehicles while in corporations, a maximum of four vehicles can be used. The voters can use any of the listed documents as their identity proof while going to the polling booths for voting. These include voter’s identity card issued by the election commission of India, passport, driving licence, pan card, Aadhaar card, SSLC book with photograph, bank passbook with photograph and the identity card issued by the state election commission to the newly added voters in the voters’ list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/webcasting-in-1850-sensitive-booths/articleshow/79571087.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Over 6k apply for benefits under CM Swarozgar Yojana; close to 2,000 loans approved by banks||Dehradun: More than 6,000 people who returned to Uttarakhand in the wake of Covid-19 have applied for loans under the Uttarakhand government's ambitious Chief Minister Swarozgar Yojana, reveals latest government data. The scheme was launched to promote reverse migration after more than 3.5 lakh people returned to Uttarakhand in the wake of Covid-19. According to official data, around 6,495 returnees, with the maximum of 1,217 from Uttarkashi, have applied under the scheme and among them, loans of 1,859 people have been approved. The break up shows that 414 returnees from Almora, 369 from Bageshwar, 377 from Champawat, 353 from Chamoli, 481 from Dehradun, 381 from Haridwar, 505 from Nainital, 615 from Pauri, 452 from Pithoragarh, 305 in Rudraprayag, 560 from Tehri, 1,217 from Uttarkashi, and 466 from Udham Singh Nagar have applied under the scheme. And while the loans of 1,859 applications have been approved by the banks, the requests of others are in different stages. A comprehensive study done by the Rural Development and Migration Commission team reflects that 3.57 lakh people have shifted from other states to Uttarakhand after March this year. However, a total of 1.04 lakh people migrated again and moved to other states in search of work between September end and October end. The remaining returnees — around 2.52 lakh locals — have either started their own work, resumed farming, or are looking for job opportunities in the state. Out of the 2.52 lakh, 33% have opted for farming, horticulture and agri sector, 38% have enrolled under MGNREGA, 12% have started their own work, and 17% are associated with other sectors. Rural Development and Migration Commission SS Negi told TOI that a good number of people are opting for schemes under the CM Swarojgar Yojna project. “More measures like better infrastructure, road and internet connectivity are required in the hills if we want to retain people or boost reverse migration.” He pointed out that 33% of the people who have stayed back have opted for agri and allied sectors. “Transportation facilities are a concern in the hills and therefore, people have apprehensions about starting new work. Some people have experimented with bakery and other sectors but the number is limited. There is a big scope in the service sector but we need to remove the hurdles first,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-6k-apply-for-benefits-under-cm-swarozgar-yojana-close-to-2000-loans-approved-by-banks/articleshow/79571090.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||6 women winners from TRS in race for mayor position||Hyderabad: Of the nine TRS women candidates who are aspiring to become the new mayor to succeed Bonthu Rammohan, six won from their respective wards while the other three bit the dust at the hustings. Bharati Nagar corporator Sindhu Adarsh Reddy, Alwal corporator Chintala Vijaya Shanthi, Vijaya Reddy from Khairatabad, Vijay Laxmi from Banjara Hills, Manne Kavitha Reddy from Venkateshwara Colony and Mothe Sri Latha Reddy from Tarnaka won in Friday’s counting. However, TRS Uppal MLA Bethi Subash Reddy’s wife B Swapna Reddy lost in Habsiguda, while former mayor and MLA Teegala Krishna Reddy’s daughter-in-law Teegala Sunaritha Reddy could not retain her Moosarambagh seat. BN Reddy Nagar corporator, TRS candidate M Laxmiprasanna Goud also lost. A senior TRS leader said Sindhu has steadfastly built an image of handling the civic issues in her ward. “In other wards where women have won, their husbands call the shots and are always in the limelight,” he said. Vijaya Reddy, daughter of late Congress leader P Janardhan Reddy, is another key aspirant for the coveted post. She tried to replicate her father, who was popular among masses as PJR, and moved among the masses in her ward. After former Malkagiri MLA Chintala Kanaka Reddy’s death, his family members expected the ticket. However, the TRS leadership gave the ticket to Mynampally’s Hanumantha Rao in 2018. “Now, Kanaka Reddy’s daughter-in-law Vijaya Shanthi stands a chance to become mayor,” a party leader said. Sources said Sri Latha, who won from Tarnaka, has a fair chance as her family has been loyal to the TRS since the time of statehood agitation. Kavitha and Vijaya Reddy, daughter of senior leader K Keshava Rao, are also in the reckoning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-women-winners-from-trs-in-race-for-mayor-position/articleshow/79573617.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 5, 2020||Madurai||Home schooling a disaster for govt school students||Madurai: Though the school education department had announced the possible reopening of schools for Class IX to XII in a staggered manner last month, it withdrew it after concerns about Covid-19 safety were raised. However, while private and aided school students are currently having online classes, government school students have been left floundering in home schooling. Since Class X and XII students will be writing their board exams, teachers are worried about their preparations.“Schooling from home feels like an impossible task for government school students. We can stay in touch with them over phone and WhatsApp, insist they must study their lessons. However, with no way to monitor them, we cannot expect anything. In fact, we are banking on the three months that should ideally be given before public exams and cover the entire portion then,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. At all government schools, teachers have ensured video lessons are uploaded to the free government laptops given to students. However, the reach of the video lessons is debatable.“We try to give them a set of questions through WhatsApp. Some students submit answers but we can’t tell for sure if they really understood the concepts and have answered,” said a Class XII Maths teacher. With many parents also being uneducated or having to be away for work, teachers said they can’t even count on parents to monitor their child’s studies. They also added that students are also developing a lackadaisical attitude towards studies believing they can pass the board exams without having to write it, like this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In corporation schools within the city too, the situation remains the same. “Schools are functioning with 50% of teachers but what good is it if we can’t reach all students? Only if schools reopen, we can actually know what they have learnt,” said the headmaster of a corporation higher secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/home-schooling-a-disaster-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/79574300.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents in a fix as vendors sell veggies at high prices||Chandigarh: It seems that there has been a long drawn confusion between the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) as well as the city residents over prices of vegetables and fruits as these are being sold at higher prices in the city. Back in March, when the city went into the lockdown mode, officials had started supplying vegetables as well as fruits sector-wise through CTU buses with a fixed price list attached to it. Officials of the municipal corporation told TOI that after relaxation in the lockdown norms, CTU vendors were allotted specific places in the city at various sectors to sell vegetables and fruits at a fixed price set by the market committee. Residents have been alleging that vendors across the city have been charging higher prices as compared to what is mentioned in the list. But, the MC has cleared the air now stating that there are around 13 authorised vendors, who are bound to sell vegetables and fruits at prices fixed by them. “They have been ordered to paste and display the price list on their vends. Earlier, we had received complaints that they have been selling at higher prices so we issued them challans too. Meanwhile, the municipal corporation is only responsible for these authorised vendors and not for the others, who are selling vegetables and fruits at their own prices,” said Sunil Dutt, superintendent enforcement, municipal corporation. According to the officials, the price list doesn’t come out on Monday as the Sector 26 Main Mandi is not operational. “On Monday, we tell our authorised vendors to sell the vegetables and fruits according to the Sunday’s price list,” added Sunil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-in-a-fix-as-vendors-sell-veggies-at-high-prices/articleshow/79571064.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong’s Ahluwalia, BJP’s Goyal as frontrunners||Panchkula: The scheduling of municipal elections for December 27 has set off a race for mayor, with Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia of the Congress and Kulbhushan Goyal of the BJP as frontrunners. Former municipal council president Ravinder Rawal and Tarsem Garg of the Congress, besides C B Goyal of the Bharatiya Janata Party, also target this chair. Former mayor Ahluwalia said: “If the party gives me another chance, I will take it. I have had a successful tenure.” Asked about Goyal, Panchkula legislator Gian Chand Gupta, who is also Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker, said: “Yes, he is a frontrunner, but since we have many contenders for mayor, a final decision may come by December 9 or 10.” Gupta said: “The Congress will face its worst ever defeat in the Panchkula MC elections. Infighting will take it down. They have no standing.” The Congress councillors have started announcing their candidatures from the common wards where the BJP is yet to field anyone. The self-declaration sure points to an internal strife and even several aspirants in the Congress said they might turn independents if denied election ticket. A senior member among them said on the condition of anonymity: “We have a clash in many wards, so all eyes are on the party high command.” The Congress has a five-member election committee, while the BJP has appointed Captain Abhimanyu Singh Sindhu its man in charge of these polls. Panchkula has 20 municipal wards. The nomination filing is between December 11 and 16, screening on December 17, and withdrawals on December 18. The campaigning is allowed till December 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/congs-ahluwalia-bjps-goyal-as-frontrunners/articleshow/79571093.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||City doctors perform rare surgery to save infant||Coimbatore: Doctors of city-based Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH) performed a rare keyhole surgery to save a four-month old boy.When the baby, from Salem, was wheeled into the hospital in October, doctors found his head enlarged and disproportionate to his 1.1kg body, bulging eyes and limb anomalies. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed that the baby’s fluid cavities were abnormally dilated with locked up brain fluid—a condition called congenital hydrocephalus.Cerebrospinal fluid was piled up in the third ventricle or centre of the brain as the channel between the third and fourth ventricle, which is in the brain stem, was blocked, said senior neurosurgeon Dr J K B C Parthiban. “The locked-up fluid was putting so much pressure on the neural tissues that it was causing neurological deficits and could eventually lead to death,” he said.The conventional method to solve the issue would be to place a stunt—a long silicon tube—to divert the fluid from the brain cavity to the abdominal cavity, the doctor said. “However, the baby was severely underweight, had abnormal sodium deficiency and had just recovered from Covid-19. We didn’t think the body could handle placement of a foreign body like a stunt, and decided to try endoscopic third ventriculostomy.”Keyhole surgery for the purpose is usually not performed on babies under the age of one. However, doctors opted it because the child was underdeveloped with multiple complications. During the 40-minute procedure, they created a hole on the tender tissue floor of the third ventricle, so that the fluid could flow out to the surface and reach the drainage system. The doctors could see remarkable neurological improvement one-and-a-half months later. “The hole may close again after six months as the baby’s brain is still forming. We can reperform the procedure easily or opt for stunt placement when the baby is bigger and healthier,” said Parthiban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-doctors-perform-rare-surgery-to-save-infant/articleshow/79573605.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Traffic advisory||For: Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) Project work – flyover construction work at Whisper Valley Junction Reason: The flyover construction work is under progress due to which traffic movement is very slow from Tolichowki towards Gachibowli and from Biodiversity / NCB Junction towards Mehdipatnam. Commuters are requested to take alternative routes to avoid delay. Date: The construction work is permitted for a period of 21 days from December 12 to December 27 , under the limits of Madhapur Traffic Police, Cyberabad Commissionerate. Time: 11 am to 5 pm  The following traffic advisory issued for the convenience of the general public: 1.\u0009The light vehicular traffic coming from Tolichowki towards Gachibowli will be diverted from Old Raidurg law and order police station (Dargah) left turn towards OU colony, Jammichettu Junction, Devagonaya Handlooms, Marrichettu Junction, Lanco Hills, DPS Road and Khajaguda Junction towards Gachibowli and the heavy vehicles coming from Tolichowki will be stopped at Pillar No. 15 and will be allowed in the morning at 6 am. 2.\u0009Traffic coming from Gachibowli towards Tolichowki will be diverted from new HRDCL Road, Road No. 45 right turn Film Nagar Road, JRC Convention Whisper Valley Junction towards Tolichowki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-advisory/articleshow/79572205.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Nearly half of total coronavirus-related deaths in U’khand recorded in last two months||Dehradun: With the state recording 618 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 76,893 . The maximum of Covid-19 cases in the state were yet again reported from Dehradun district. The state also reported deaths of 10 Covid-19 patients. With this, the toll of the virus rose to 1,273. According to official data, nearly half of the total deaths in the state have taken place in the last two months itself. On October 04 (six months into the outbreak), the total deaths in the state were 652. Among the 618 positive Covid-19 cases reported on Friday, the maximum of 239 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 93 in Nainital, 48 in Haridwar, 40 in Chamoli, 39 in Almora, 34 in Pauri, 33 in Pithoragarh, 21 in Udham Singh Nagar, 20 in Tehri, 18 in Uttarkashi, 13 each in Bageshwar and Rudraprayag, and seven in Champawat. Among those tested positive on the day were a disaster management officer and four teachers from Haridwar. The superintendent of Central Jail in Sitarganj also tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. “With 560 people recovering from Covid-19 infection, the total number of cured cases in Uttarakhand reached 69,831. As many as 4,994 people are under treatment in Uttarakhand. The state, till now, has tested 13,96,331 samples and the current infection rate is 3.9%,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation (an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state), said that the percentage of Covid-19 cases in the nine hill districts is going up rapidly since September. “The infection rate in Uttarakhand for the past 15 days is 3.93% but it is 8.7% in Pithoragarh, 6.5% in Rudraprayag, 6.3% in Almora. As many as five hill districts have an infection rate that is more than the state’s average,” added Nautiyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nearly-half-of-total-coronavirus-related-deaths-in-ukhand-recorded-in-last-two-months/articleshow/79571111.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 5, 2020||Ajmer||10kg opium seized in Kishangarh, two held||AJMER: The Narcotics Control Bureau seized 10kg of opium from a private bus in Kishangarh and arrested two persons on Friday. The contraband was coming from Jharkhand and was to be delivered to Pali. The team also seized Rs 17, 949 from the accused. The accused were identified as Ram Niwas and Dinesh Bishnoi, both residents of Pali district. A team of NCB carried out the search operation on Friday.They caught the consignment in Kishangarh when the bus halted at the toll booth. During search, they got opium parcels which were being taken to Pali. Now, the team is investigating the source of the drug and the party that was to receive the drugs and the drug racket involved. NCB had got a tip-off that opium was being transported in a private bus. The team recovered 10.2kg of opium from the bus of Jhakar travels (RJ 05- 5655). The bureau is trying to bust inter-state opium racket in west Rajasthan as sources said that the cities there were turning into opium hub. The officials have appealed to public to inform about any drug abuser or drug incident. NCB has also planned to act tough against drug trafficking in this belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/10kg-opium-seized-in-kishangarh-two-held/articleshow/79573597.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||31 ACC cadets graduate from IMA||Dehradun: The Indian Military Academy (IMA) held the graduation ceremony for the cadets graduating from the 116th Army Cadet College (ACC) Course on Friday. A total of 31 cadets of the ACC Wing graduated on Friday and were awarded degrees during the presentation ceremony at the Khetarpal Auditorium . The degrees were conferred on the cadets by the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. Amongst the 31 cadets, 11 graduated in Science stream and 20 in Humanities stream. On Friday, IMA also held pipping ceremony of three Gentlemen Cadets from Tajikistan, who will be proceeding for advance courses in other Indian military establishments. A communique from IMA said that the award winners in different categories of the ACC Wing Course were Atin Thapa, Satbir Singh, Sahil Thakur, Anmol Gurung, Sargent Singh Atul Pratap, and Sahil Verma. The Army Cadet College is an integral feeder wing of the Indian Military Academy. The college was established with the aim to train and induct deserving soldiers into officer cadre. After three years of training at the Army Cadet College, the cadets of the graduating course join the Indian Military Academy for one year for their Pre-Commissioning Training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/31-acc-cadets-graduate-from-ima/articleshow/79571112.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 43 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris has been witnessing a fluctuation in new Covid-19 cases in the past one week. Active cases increased to 198 on Friday, when the district logged 43 new cases. The tally now stands at 7,533.While Ooty town alone reported 10 cases, the remaining new cases were spread across Gudalur, Coonoor and Kotagiri blocks.At least 25 patients were discharged on the day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 7233.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-43-cases/articleshow/79573624.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Demand for cheetah & lion induction in MHTR impractical: Wildlife enthusiasts in Kota||KOTA: Wildlife enthusiasts in Kota have termed ‘impractical’ the repeated local demand for induction of cheetahs from Iran and lions from Gujarat in the forests of Rajasthan and in Mukundra Hill Tiger Reserve (MHTR) of Hadauti region. The enthusiasts also argued that when the state is not even capable of handling and maintaining its tigers in the reserves, how can it maintain habitations for cheetahs and lions. Instead, they stressed the state government to lay emphasis on improvement of its standards of maintenance of wildlife and tourism, on the line of its neighbouring state Madhya Pradesh that is far ahead in the field. “While we are not even able to handle safely the tigers in the state, how are we talking of induction of cheetahs and lions?” Tapeshwar Bhati, MHTR local advisory committee (LAC) member said. There are several states in the competition and “Rajasthan is no longer sincere on its forests, it has got no management plan on forests,” he said terming the demand merely a political talk and impractical move. Even the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve is functioning on its destiny and not on its management plan, he added. “We have got only big talks on wildlife and it is fairly unreasonable to ask for cheetahs. And who is going to give them to you when you are not even capable of handling safely your tigers in the state,” said another enthusiast. Notably, three big cats — a tiger, a tigress and a cub — died in MHTR in recent past while another cub is still missing for months leaving the reserve with only one tiger. Instead, the enthusiasts demanded the state government to improve its wildlife management on the lines of Madhya Pradesh that is par excellence on standards among the other states and started preparation for habitation for cheetahs and lions 8 years ago, Bhati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/demand-for-cheetah-lion-induction-in-mhtr-impractical/articleshow/79573566.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP, Majlis gain big in Old City’s flood-affected areas||Hyderabad: Voters residing in flood-affected areas in eastern part of the city voted for BJP but AIMIM was able to retain all the flood-affected wards in Old City. GHMC LB Nagar zone, which covers most of the eastern part of the city, consists of 23 wards, out of which BJP won 15 wards and TRS won six. In LB Nagar constituency, all the 11 wards were bagged by BJP. The victory margins were significant, for instance in P&T Colony ward, TRS lost by more than 4,000 votes and theyy lost by more than 4,000 votes in Chaitanyapuri ward as well. In Meerpet assembly segment, there are two wards that fall in GHMC limits — RK Puram and Saroornagar — both of which were won by BJP candidates. Apart from parts of LB Nagar constituency, Uppal was also among the worst hit areas where boats and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had to be pressed into service. Uppal MLA Bethi Subash Reddy’s wife B Swapna Reddy (Habsiguda) lost against BJP’s candidate and BJP won the seat in Malkajgiri (one of the most flood-affected areas) ward as well. Both the seats fall in Uppal assembly segment. In Old City, two seats held by TRS in Malakpet assembly segment were won by BJP this election. In Moosarambagh ward, MLA Teegala Krishna Reddy’s daughter-in-law and TRS candidate Sunaritha Reddy lost against BJP. She was also in the race for GHMC mayor. In Saidabad, TRS candidate Swarnalatha Reddy lost against BJP. In Old City, flood-affected areas which were retained by AIMIM include Chandrayanguta and Barkas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-majlis-gain-big-in-old-citys-flood-affected-areas/articleshow/79573652.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||T sees 631 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Hyderabad: A total of 631 new Covid-19 infections and two fatalities were recorded in Telangana on Friday, taking the overall toll to 1,467 and the overall caseload to 2,72,123. Though there are 8,826 active Covid-19 cases in the state, the recovery rate in the state has now touched 96.21%. Fearing a second wave of Covid-19 after the campaigns for GHMC polls, director of public health in Telangana advised all political leaders and people who took part in the campaigns to self-isolate. “We request all political leaders, workers and people who could have been exposed to the virus to stay in isolation for five to seven days. Those with symptoms must get tested,” said G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-631-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/79572191.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Nainital locals come out in support of farmers protesting in Delhi||Nainital: Several locals in Nainital held a sit-in protest near Gandhi statue on the town’s Mall Road in solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi. The locals who had gathered under the banner of Nainital People’s Forum said that the Centre should repeal the three farm Acts which were passed in the parliament without deliberation. Speaking during the protest, Rajiv Lochan Sah said that the government should yield to the farmer’s demands. “Farmers from across the country have reached Delhi to fight for their rights. These farmers have left their crops and are now sitting in Delhi because they know what they are demanding is their right. It is now the government's job to listen to them and yield to their demands,” said Sah. The protesters added that the new laws are blatant efforts to hand over the agriculture sector to private firms. “The Acts were passed without any deliberations with the farmers. They know that it is not in their interests and therefore, they are fighting against it. The government should have consulted with the farmers then they would have known that their laws will only harm them,” the protesters said. The sit-in was joined by several eminent citizens of Nainital, including Professor Shekhar Pathak, Professor Shekhar Pathak, Professor KB Maklani, and Kailsahi Joshi, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nainital-locals-come-out-in-support-of-farmers-protesting-in-delhi/articleshow/79571117.cms||Prashant Jha
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Mild earthquake of 2.6 mag hits Pithoragarh||Pithoragarh: An earthquake of magnitude 2.6 on the Richter scale occurred at 3:10 am on Friday in Pithoragarh, said the National Centre for Seismology. Residents said no tremors were felt. No damage to life or property took place. Authorities said that further details are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mild-earthquake-of-2-6-mag-hits-pithoragarh/articleshow/79571126.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Poacher caught with chinkara carcass in Barmer district||JAISALMER: The incidents of chinkara poaching are increasing in winter. Villagers in Barmer caught a person poaching a chinkara and handed him over to the forest department on Thursday night. A poacher at Bhadkha in Barmer district was found poaching a chinkara with weapons, torch and other items on Thursday night and a few people saw him and chased him. They recovered a chinkara carcass and few weapons from him. The villagers immediately informed the forest department and handed over the poacher along with the dead chinkara and the weapons to the forest team. Forest department officer Deepak Kumar said that he received information that a poacher had been caught at Bhadkha village around midnight. The team reached there and took the poacher in custody. Postmortem of the carcass will be done by forming a medical board .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poacher-caught-with-chinkara-carcass-in-barmer-district/articleshow/79573609.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||CTU to speed up GPS installation in buses||Chandigarh: The Chandigarh administration has directed the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) to speed up the process of installation of GPS in CTU buses. Sources revealed that the authorities are likely to complete the process of installation of GPS in all the local buses by end January 2021. “The entire bus network in the Tricity will be digitally monitored under the Intelligent Transport System (ITS),” said sources. The administration had signed an agreement with the World Bank in 2016 for modernisation of the CTU operations. For installation of the ITS in CTU buses at a cost of nearly Rs 35 crore, the transport department had selected a Gujarat-based company to carry out the project, which was to be completed in three phases. In the first phase, the GPS has been installed in 100 buses and the passengers can track the location of these buses on mobile phones, said an official. He said the GPS has also been installed in 73 buses in the second phase, but the trial is still going on. “The work for the third phase has also commenced and it is set to be completed by January 2021,” he added. After the completion of the work, commuters will be able to track all the buses on their mobile phones trough an app, which has been created. At present, 100 buses have been added to this app. As many as 73 buses will be added after the completion of the trail of the second phase. Thereafter, the remaining 185 buses will also be added to the app after the completion of the third phase of the project. The entire fleet of buses will be monitored at the central control room of the CTU and the authorities could monitor the exact location of the buses and load of passengers on each route. There will be a digital display of timings of the buses at each bus queue shelter. Passengers will be able to track the exact location and know the timings of the buses and alternate routes available for their travel on the mobile application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ctu-to-speed-up-gps-installation-in-buses/articleshow/79571123.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Forest personnel injured in attack by mining mafia in Barmer district||JAISALMER: A forest personnel was injured in an attack by mining mafia in Chauhatan area of Barmer district on Friday. Chauhatan police reached the spot and launched a search for the culprits. The forest department team recovered two trolleys of stones from the spot. According to police, illegal mining was being carried out in the forest land near Dhok Ki Bhildi village and a forest department team reached the spot on getting a complaint. The team was attacked with sticks in which department mason Dhannaram suffered serious injuries and was admitted to hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-personnel-injured-in-attack-by-mining-mafia-in-barmer-district/articleshow/79573638.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Techies fail to make mark in elections||Hyderabad: Techies failed to make a mark in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections, results of which were declared by the Telangana State Election Commission on Friday. An alumnus of Birla Institute of Technology, Pilani, Srinivas Velaga tested political waters for the first time and contested the GHMC polls on a BJP ticket. Srinivas gave a tough fight to TRS candidate Narne Srinivasa Rao in the Hyder Nagar division, but the latter won by a margin of 1,470 votes. Rao had secured 6,699 votes against 5,239 secured by Srinivas. “Hyder Nagar division was adopted by TRS working president K Taraka Rama Rao for the GHMC polls. I am happy that an ordinary man like me could challenge the ruling party with all my strength and development agenda,” he added. With 51,281 votes, Hyder Nagar division in Serilingampally was one of the key localities that houses a large number of IT professionals besides a population of around 12,000 of marginal communities living in basthis. The division had recorded 37.32% polling on December 1. Jeswanth Reddy Muthyala, a techie who fought from BN Reddy in Hayathnagar as an independent, also lost the polls to BJP candidate Moddu Lachi Reddy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techies-fail-to-make-mark-in-elections/articleshow/79573675.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Faisal is contesting for panchayat three years after he contested for parliament seat||KOZHIKODE: While many would aspire to climb the ladder of electoral politics by starting with grama panchayat ward and working their way to secure Parliament seat, the electoral journey of M B Faisal has been the other way round. Faisal, who had contested the Parliament byelection as LDF candidate in Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency against IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty in 2017, is now contesting from ward 15 of Vattamkulam grama panchayat in Malappuram district. Faisal, however, has no qualms over contesting in a panchayat ward just three years after he stood for the Parliament election. “In a democracy, all elected posts have their own value, be it that of a panchayat member or a Parliament member. Having contested for Parliament election does not become an impediment in contesting for other posts. Power is not something to flaunt off but an opportunity to serve people and grama panchayats are vital grassroots-level institutions which people bank on for their basic needs,” he said. CPM has fielded him to lead the LDF panel in the panchayat. The Malappuram byelection of 2017 was necessitated following the death of E Ahamed, MP. Kunhalikutty had won the polls with a margin of 1.71 lakh against Faisal, who was the member of Malappuram district panchayat hailing from Changaramkulam division. Faisal said there have been many instances of even MPs contesting in the local body polls after their term in the Parliament, like in the case of C Haridas who became the chairman of the Ponnani municipality after his tenure as MP. Also former MP, S Sivaraman was elected to the Ottapalam block panchayat. While Faisal had to take on a political heavyweight like Kunhhalikutty in Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency, which is an IUML fortress in 2017, the Vattamkulam panchayat where Faisal is now contesting is a LDF stronghold where the Left front has been in power for the last four decades. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/faisal-is-contesting-for-panchayat-three-years-after-he-contested-for-parliament-seat/articleshow/79571148.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Two burglar gangs busted in Phalodi; jewellery, car seized||JODHPUR: Police busted two gangs of burglars from Haryana and arrested six people on Friday during nakabandi in Phalodi. Jewellery worth lakhs and a luxury car have been seized from them. The jewellery seized by police had been stolen from different places in Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Barmer districts. SP (Rural) Rahul Barhat said that all the gang members belong to Haryana. They would come to Ramdeora for stay and would spread to different places for robbing jewellery and cash mainly from passengers in buses. “There are two gangs active in these three districts comprising 14 members in total. We have succeeded in arresting six of them and began hunt for the rest,” said Barhat. SHO (Baap) Hari Singh said a luxury car was spotted on NH-11 near Phalodi during nakabandi on Friday afternoon. “We stopped the car and found six people in it with large amount of jewellery. We inquired about the jewellery and arrested all of them on finding them suspicious,” Singh said. He said that during interrogation, they all admitted to have stolen the jewellery from different places in Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Barmer. “They admitted to having committed 13 burglaries in these three districts since February this year. Five of them belonged to one gang and one from another. All of them are from Haryana and belong to the Sansi tribe,” the official said adding that hunt for arresting others was initiated. The gang members would target a single person, preferably a woman with some bag or suitcase, travelling in a bus. They would board the bus, open the suitcase with a master key, steal the valuables and get off the bus to flee in a vehicle following the bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-burglar-gangs-busted-in-phalodi-jewellery-car-seized/articleshow/79573641.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||AAP member held in Valpoi, Kejri slams CM||Valpoi: Aam Admi Party (AAP) member Sandesh Telekar was arrested by Valpoi police late Friday evening, prompting Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to tweet that his Goa counterpart Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane were rattled by the party’s groundswell in the state. Telekar was arrested for organising a corner meeting and addressing locals over the ‘Veej Andolan’ (electricity policy) at Honda, Sattari. Telekar was brought to the Valpoi police station from Honda. Valpoi police said Telekar was arrested under section 151 of the Indian Penal Code. Tweeting the news of the arrest, Kejriwal wrote, “The growing popularity and groundswell of support in favour of AAP and the resonances of the Free Electricity promise made by AAP for Goans has completed rattled Goa CM @DrPramodPSawant, and in particular his deputy @visrane in whose constituency this happened today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-member-held-in-valpoi-kejri-slams-cm/articleshow/79574347.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Depts bicker, spoil UT plan to achieve solar power target||Chandigarh: Lack of coordination between different departments of the UT administration is creating hurdles to achieve the target of 69 megawatt (MW) solar power generation that the ministry of new and renewable energy has set for 2022 after enhancing it from 50MW. UT adviser Manoj Parida will hold a crucial meeting with the heads of different departments to sort out differences and to encourage them to work as a team on December 9. Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) is the nodal agency to install solar projects in the city, but coordination is required with UT engineering department, electricity department, urban planning department, chief architect office, municipal corporation and others. Sources said these departments have time and again raised objections and created hurdles in key solar installation projects, delaying them and in some cases hiking their costs. The objections were related to design, house inspection and no objection related to projects. The administration has achieved a target of 37.5 MW, as of now. To encourage people for installation of solar projects, the central government had even released Rs 5 crore to the administration, which is being used to transfer solar subsidy to residents, who had installed solar plants on their rooftops. The administration had decided to use this amount for transferring subsidy amounts in the account of eligible beneficiaries. The government had recently notified the new subsidy scheme for the rooftop solar units, wherein the subsidy amount has been raised from 30% to 40% for panels up to 3 kWp capacity. For solar units from 4 kWp to 10 kWp, the subsidy will be 20%. There will be no subsidy for plants above 10kWp. Earlier, 30% subsidy was given to all applicants irrespective of the capacity of the plant. NEW Projects 42 MW through Resco model 500kW at ISBT, Sector 43 800kW, New Lake parking, Sector 42 350kW, Palm Garden parking, Sector 42 2 MW on N-Choe 5 MW Patiala ki Rao 1 MW Sports Complex 8MW through capital expenditure Resco model On the directions of Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC), the UT administration had started a demand survey for the Resco (Renewable Energy Service Company) model. Though the process of demand survey is still on, over 200 people have already given their consent for the model. Under the scheme, the agency will install 2,400-odd rooftop SPV power plants on the build-operate-transfer (BOT) model on a first-come, first-served basis. Under the model, private companies will install solar-energy plants on private property, and in return, charge the building owner a much lower tariff (Rs 3.44 per unit) than the normal electricity rate (Rs 2.75 to Rs 5.20) for about 15 years (or whatever period is agreed in the tender) Box: Deadline extended till March 31 next year The UT administration recently extended the solar installation deadline till next year March 31, 2021. The recent deadline had ended on March 31 and as lockdown is in force, the UT had decided not to impose any penalty on residents till the lockdown gets over.The administration in a notification issued on May 18, 2016, had made installation of rooftop solar power plants mandatory in residential houses measuring 500 sq.yd and above and group housing societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/depts-bicker-spoil-ut-plan-to-achieve-solar-power-target/articleshow/79571139.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Rebuild migrants’ huts in 2 months: Court to Karnataka||BENGALURU: Upholding the fundamental right to shelter, the Karnataka HC on Friday directed the state government to reconstruct structures and hutments of migrant workers at Kacharakanahalli, east Bengaluru, which were brought down in March-April this year soon after the lockdown kicked in. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said in its order that the process of distribution of compensation must be completed in three weeks and the state must reconstruct structures and hutments of the identified families within two months. The court said the government has failed to uphold the fundamental right to shelter of the affected persons. The court took up the issue through a suo motu PIL based on a letter sent in by city-based advocate Vaishali Hegde. She cited TOI reportage and other media reports in this regard. MIGRANT WORKERS’ SHELTERGovt did not take action till we intervened, says HCThe bench observed, “It is not as if three sets of houses were destroyed in one day. On 24 March 2020, some huts were burned; on 30 March, (a) few more huts were burned. In April, several houses were destroyed by use of JCB. Thus, this not a solitary incident. The entire machinery of the state government was aware of this incident. Till this court intervened, there was no attempt made to rehabilitate the affected families.” “Apart from paying compensation to the affected families for the loss of articles, houses, there is no genuine attempt made by the state to rehabilitate the families. The hutments of people were destroyed by third parties who are interested in encroaching (upon) government land. Thus, the state completely ignored miscreants who are interested in destructing the huts,” the court said. “The only option available before us is to direct the state to reconstruct the huts by adopting uniform design. The reconstruction will obviously not create equity in favour of occupants. If the structures are illegally constructed action can then be taken in accordance with law,” it added. Nearly 250 migrant construction labourers from Kalaburagi district in north Karnataka were rendered shelterless after their shanties in Sunday Bazaar slum in Kacharakanahalli, near Kammanahalli, were burnt down when they had gone back to their villages during the lockdown in March and April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/court-to-ktaka-rebuild-migrants-huts-in-2-mths/articleshow/79574970.cms||Vasantha Kumar
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||GMCH head loses battle to cancer at 59||Chandigarh: Cancer did not stop Prof B S Chavan, director-principal, Government medical College and hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, from visiting the hospital during the coronavirus pandemic even while he was on medical leave. He breathed his last in the same hospital on Friday morning. He was 59. As a psychiatrist, he had worked immensely for people with disabilities. “I learnt from him that if you are living, you should be living for others. Dr Chavan had made it possible for any person who is disabled to earn for himself as he had started self-help groups. For this, when he was felicitated with a national award by the then president, Dr A P J Kalam told him that I would like to learn this from you as I could not develop such a model for the specially-abled,” said Dr Chhaya Prasad, who had at that time accompanied Prof Chavan to receive the award. “He had been working actively even while undergoing chemotherapy. Even the fear of Covid infection could not stop him from daily meeting with doctors to design the functioning of the hospital,” said Dr Dasari Harish, head, forensic medicine, GMCH. Prof Chavan was admitted to GMCH a week ago and was put on ventilator. He is survived by his wife who works as a doctor, two sons, one of whom is doing internship in GMCH. Prof Chavan was a psychiatrist by profession. He became the officiating director-principal of the medical college in 2017. Before joining GMCH, Prof Chavan worked at AIIMS, New Delhi. Prof Chavan did his MD psychiatry from PGI in 1987. Prof Chavan was instrumental in starting community outreach programme for mental illness and substance abuse, including community based indoor detoxification camps. He had started regular services for the caregivers of mentally ill patients and encouraged the families to get them registered as a self-help group in the name of Prayatan. He was also instrumental in starting Home-based Treatment Care and Crisis Intervention Services for the crisis situations in mental health, including 24-hour suicide prevention helpline, in Chandigarh. “I had been working closely with him since the last three years. He was a dedicated doctor who used to take his team along. It is a great loss. I remember while I was on the verge of leaving the hospital, he retained me. now I feel betrayed as he has left all of us,” said Prof Ravi Gupta, medical superintendent. Punjab governor and UT administrator V P Singh Badnore in his tweet expressing grief at the demise of Prof Chavan mentioned: “We acknowledge his presence and active involvement in our Covid preventive steps, despite his illness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gmch-head-loses-battle-to-cancer-at-59/articleshow/79571142.cms||Shimona Kanwar
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||12MW solar project costing Rs 60cr to be city’s biggest||Chandigarh: The city will have its biggest solar power project of Rs 60 crore with 12MW capacity at the Sector 39 waterworks, where Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Bandore on Friday laid the foundation stone of the project to enhance the water storage capacity. The municipal corporation (MC) has collaborated with the department of Chandigarh Renewable Energy Science and Technology Promotion Society (Crest) of the UT administration. Soon after the stone-laying ceremony, Crest chief executive officer (CEO) Debendra Dalai visited the waterworks and had a discussion with engineering officers of the MC. Seven water tanks will be enhanced under the project of Rs 39 crore to increase the capacity. The plan has been prepared in a manner that after the redesigning one tank, the work of installation of solar panels can be started over its roof immediately instead of waiting for the modification of other tanks to end. A private company will be roped in to invest in the project and the revenue from the power generation will be divided between the company and UT. The terms and condition will be decided later. Dalai said, “This biggest solar panel installation project will come up under Renewable Energy Service Company (Resco) model. A tender will be invited from companies to install the solar panel and revenue generation will be divided with the UT. We will soon sign an agreement. Moreover, after completing the paper work and formality, the MC will soon give us the timeline for the work of each tank, so that we can start the work immediately instead of waiting for entire project to end.” Earlier, Badnore said the MC has worked hard for improving the water supply in the city by not only putting in place the basic infrastructure but also supporting capacity building through technical assistance. Badnore appealed to residents to develop a habit of saving water and not to waste it any cost. While briefing about the project, MC commissioner K K Yadav said at present, the available raw water storage capacity at the waterworks is 48 MGD (million gallons per day), but by remodeling/redesigning of the tanks, the capacity will be increased to 92 MGD. He said the total cost of the project will be Rs 39 crore, for which the administration has provided Rs 28 crore and Chandigarh Smart City Limited the rest of the amount of Rs 11 crore. The work is to be completed in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12mw-solar-project-costing-rs-60cr-to-be-citys-biggest/articleshow/79571150.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Urgent’: MC wants grant-in-aid in one go||Chandigarh: Tired of asking the UT administration for additional money, the municipal corporation has at last written to the finance department for the pending full grant-in-aid (GIA). With just four months left in the financial year, the MC has prepared a GIA estimate of Rs 171 crore for the UT to release every month. Sources in the MC said the finance department had set aside Rs 425 crore as GIA in the original UT budget but cut it, later, due to the lockdown. The MC also spent on doing its Covid duties in the crisis period, which kept it bleeding. A senior MC official said: “From December onwards, the UT has to give us Rs 171 crore GIA out of the original budget. We now want this money in one go instead of a morsel every month. We have requested the UT for quick payment, consider our financial issues. We need this money.” He said: “In the past few months, we cleared our dues to the road contractors but our liabilities are so much that we need more money, a chunk of it just for the councillors’ ward development fund that the general house has approved. The MC’s monthly liabilities are more than Rs 57 crore, but the civic body gets only about Rs 30 crore a month. In November, we got only Rs 28 crore. In this pandemic, even our revenue resources have shrunk.” Box: MC financial report Losses (Apr to Aug) Rs 123cr | Total expected amount Rs 99cr | Received by Aug 31 Rs 24cr | Deficit Liabilities (2020-21) Head | Expense Salaries | Rs 210cr Wages | Rs 209cr Electricity | Rs 104cr Pension | Rs 54cr Urgent maintenance | Rs 30cr Water | Rs 24cr MOH office | Rs 15cr Petrol | Rs 13cr Telephone | Rs 12cr Head office | Rs 2cr||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/urgent-mc-wants-grant-in-aid-in-one-go/articleshow/79571149.cms||Deepak Yadav
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Only BJP can take on TRS, says Konda||Hyderabad: Former Congress MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy on Friday said the people of Telangana are looking up to BJP as the main party which can take on TRS in Telangana. “General public are against the TRS. It is not the Congress but it is the BJP which can take on the ruling TRS in Telangana,” he tweeted after postal ballots counting was completed where the BJP secured a clear lead. Stating that the postal ballot cast in favour of BJP reflected the opinion of employees and the elderly, he said this had established clearly that “people believe now that only the saffron party can take on TRS and not Congress.” However, he went on to say that the BJP’s grand show in GHMC elections was mainly due to anti-KCR votes being cast in favour of the saffron party. “Of the total votes the BJP secured, 30% belong to it and the remaining 70% is anti-KCR and anti-TRS vote,” he said. With the BJP emerging as the main opposition party to the TRS, will Vishweshwar Reddy join the saffron party? Pat came the reply, “I would join the BJP if the TRS and Congress tie up to take on the BJP in future elections. I will not join the BJP if the saffron party goes soft on TRS government and its scams.” He added, “As on date, I am comfortable in Congress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-bjp-can-take-on-trs-says-konda/articleshow/79573679.cms||Roushan Ali
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Notify BBMP polls for 198 wards within 10 weeks: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: In a big jolt to the BJP government in the state, the high court on Friday rejected its application seeking postponement of elections to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). It set a 10-week timeline for holding polls to the civic body’s 198 wards. The court directed the State Election Commission to declare the poll schedule within six weeks from date of issuance of ward-wise reservation list. The government must publish this list within a month in pursuance of the June 23 notification on delimitation of wards. The government had sought deferment of elections on the grounds that it should be held for the redrawn 243 wards, instead of existing 198, in view of the population growth. Amendment to Act can’t be applicable to Palike: HCThe court pointed out that if the application for deferring polls to accommodate the redrawn 243 wards is accepted, it goes against the constitutional mandate of conducting timely elections. Disposing of a batch of PILs in this regard, a division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka pointed out that the recent amendment to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, though a valid law, cannot be made applicable to BBMP whose term expired on September 10. Along with the SEC, two ex-corporators, M Shivaraj and Abdul Wajid, and a Bengaluru resident Ravi Jagan had filed separate PILs, seeking timely conduct of polls. During earlier proceedings, the government had contended that it’s not against holding timely elections and the court can monitor the process by stipulating timelines within which the new delimitation process and subsequent elections are to be held. According to the government, the KMC amendment has become a law wherein BBMP wards have been increased from 198 to 243 wards and this cannot be ignored. As regards the delay, the state blamed the Covid-19 pandemic, stating it had created extraneous circumstances. However, the petitioners responded that allowing a fresh delimitation process would further delay elections by more than a year as fresh reservation list and voters’ list have to be prepared. The court was informed that 2021 is a census year and this would give scope for more delay as new census data will have to be incorporated while preparing a new voters’ list. “In some other municipal corporations also, elections have not been held within the time fixed by Article 243U of the Constitution. Therefore, it is unfortunate that the SEC is forced to invoke the writ jurisdiction of this court for compelling the state government to perform its statutory duties under Section 21 of the KMC Act of 1976,” the court said. “In normal course, the court would have been justified in imposing exemplary costs on the government. However, we will have to take a judicial notice of the fact that the government is facing a financial crunch due to the lockdown and spread of Covid-19. It is only for that reason, we refrain from imposing costs on the government. In any case, the government will have to provide requisite funds to the SEC for holding of elections,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/notify-bbmp-polls-for-198-wards-within-10-weeks-hc/articleshow/79574975.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Shatabdi arrives 81% full, but departs 28%||Chandigarh: Resumed after March, the Shatabdi Express brought great relief on Friday to those tired of travelling to and from Delhi by road. The Delhi-Kalka-Delhi train arrived in the morning with 81% occupancy but departed in the evening with only 28%, which is just 309 passengers against 1,092 seats in 14 coaches. Delhi-bound bank officer Tanuja said: “It’s a big relief to know that the Shatabdi has started running again. I work in Chandigarh but travel to Delhi frequently. With the Delhi borders sealed (because of the farmers protest), going by road is now difficult.” Booking was easy, as she said the seats were available. Sumit Kumar, who was also going to Delhi, said: “Travelling by train is much more convenient and relaxing. Remember to wear a mask and use the sanitiser.” Ambala divisional railway manager G M Singh said: “We will watch the response for some time before resuming other trains to Kalka and Chandigarh. The first day’s occupancy of 81% is a very favourable sign.” The other Shatabdis—Kalka-Delhi-Kalka and Chandigarh-Delhi-Chandigarh—remain on hold till further orders or until the occupancy recovers. Train 12011 departed Delhi at 7.40am with 890 passengers and reached Chandigarh at 11.05am. Then 480 passengers alighted and the train went on to Kalka, getting there at 11.45am to drop 145 passengers. On the way from Delhi, it left 190 passengers at Ambala and 75 at Panipat and Kurukshetra. Train 12012 departed Kalka at 5.45pm with 24 passengers, arrived in Chandigarh at 6.15pm, dropped 217 passengers, halted for 8 minutes and went on to pick 68 passengers from Ambala and reach Delhi at 9.55pm with 309 on board. The train has 2-minute stopovers at Ambala, Kurukshetra, and Panipat in between.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shatabdi-arrives-81-full-but-departs-28/articleshow/79571155.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Police teams find no luck in Lucknow, Delhi, Mumbai||Chandigarh: Despite identifying the other accused in the Panjab University heritage chair theft case, the police have failed to make any further arrests in the case. The alleged kingpin is also on the run. Three police teams of the crime branch had been sent to Lucknow, Delhi and Mumbai to nab the three main accused in the case but all of them returned empty-handed. The crime branch had arrested three persons, including a woman and claimed to recover 35 stolen heritage chairs of PU. The three had been identified as Sweety of Sector 25, Sarfaraz of Zirakpur and Naresh Mittal, a scrap dealer of Sector 44. Police had recovered 20 stolen chairs from the possession of Sarfaraz, a carpenter. He used to repair stolen chairs and then sell them to brokers and scrap dealers. Mittal used to sell heritage furniture to brokers in other states like Delhi and Mumbai. However, Sweety along with other gang members allegedly stole heritage furniture from the university. Sweety has a tainted past and was arrested in theft cases earlier too. Police said that around 100 heritage furniture items were stolen by the accused from different departments of PU. Police suspect the gang is also involved in the theft of heritage furniture from different parts of the city. Sector 11 police on November 20 had registered a theft case against unknown persons on the complaint of Manjit Singh, superintendent, sociology department, PU, against unknown persons. In his complaint, Manjit Singh reported that thieves had stolen 48 heritage chairs from the department between November 1 and 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/police-teams-find-no-luck-in-lucknow-delhi-mumbai/articleshow/79571159.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kozhikode||Samastha chief denies he sought IUML rebels’ defeat||KOZHIKODE: In a major embarrassment for the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema president Syed Muhammad Jifri Muthukoya Thangal has denied a Chandrika report claiming that he sought the defeat of IUML rebels in the upcoming local-body election. The report, appearing in the Friday edition of the daily, said Thangal had exhorted people to defeat those contesting the polls as IUML rebels. Thangal, according to the report, said IUML is a party led by the Panakkad family. The Samastha chief, it said, wants IUML and the political front it is part of to come to power for the protection of religious minorities. Thangal asserted that IUML decided on candidates after much deliberation and rebel candidates cannot be encouraged, according to the Chandrika report. Thangal issued a hard-hitting rebuttal soon after the news became a controversy. He said his reported statement is baseless and misleading. “During a private function at Puliyavu, Nadapuram some people approached me saying that they are contesting the elections. People from all political parties approach me during election time seeking my prayers, and I have always obliged them,” Thangal said. He added that he didn’t say anything more to the group from Nadapuram. “It is unfair to construe that I was talking about the rebel menace and the need to follow Hyder Ali Thangal’s direction. Moreover, converting a private conversation into a news item is doing a bad job of it,” he said. Thangal said he never talked in favour of or against any individual or political front. “I never expected such an approach from Chandrika, the mouthpiece of the IUML, and I hope that they will correct it,” he said. Thangal said the political stance of the Samastha is well known and transparent. There is no change from the position taken by his predecessors, he said. Meanwhile, anger is brewing in the Samastha and allied organisations over dragging it into a political controversy. Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS) state secretary Abdul Hameed Faizi Ambalakkadavu said it is imperative to identify who is responsible for the fake news. In a Facebook post, he said both IUML and Samastha have their own constitutions and set of policies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/samastha-chief-denies-he-sought-iuml-rebels-defeat/articleshow/79571176.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Former mayor Majid among first winners||Hyderabad: Former city mayor Mohammed Majid Hussain, of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), was among the first winners as the counting progressed for the GHMC polls on Friday. Hussain was declared a winner with a majority of 5,485 votes out of 7,420 votes polled in ward number 70 of the Mehdipatnam division. The results were announced soon after the first round of counting concluded in the Government Polytechnic College counting centre in Masab Tank, where the authorities have made arrangements to count votes of nine wards in the division. Hussain, who was one of the youngest mayors of Hyderabad, had contested from Mehdipatnam this time. “I thank each and every person who believed that I am capable to work for the people of Mehdipatnam. I would like to ascertain once again that I will keep my promise and work for the development of this city,” said Hussain. Hussain was first elected as a corporator from the Ahmednagar division in the GHMC elections in 2009 and was sworn in as Mayor in January 2012. Among the 34,50,331 votes polled, 18,60,400 men and 15,90,219 women have cast their vote. And among the 150 divisions, Yousufguda and Mehdipatnam divisions registered the lowest voting percentage – 32.99 percent and 34.41 percent respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-mayor-majid-among-first-winners/articleshow/79573684.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Dehradun||Blood donation camp held on National Navy Day||Dehradun: On the occasion of National Navy Day on Friday, the National Hydrographic Office (NHO) held a blood donation camp in Dehradun. In the wake of Covid-19 this year, the otherwise one-week long event was cut short significantly. The blood donation camp was conducted by National Health Mission and Government Doon Medical College and Hospital. A large number of Indian Navy personnel and civilian personnel from NHO participated in the drive. The present NHO campus in Dehradun was established in June, 1954, and was named as the Naval Hydrographic Office before being rechristened as National Hydrographic Office in 1997. The National Navy Day is celebrated on December 4 every year to recognise the role of the Indian Navy during the India-Pak war in 1971 when the Indian Navy attacked the Karachi harbour leading to the ultimate victory of the Indian forces over Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/blood-donation-camp-held-on-national-navy-day/articleshow/79571160.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Celebrations restricted to party offices in city||Hyderabad: Celebrations were restricted to party headquarters in the city on Friday following police orders prohibiting victory processions for 48 hours after completion of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation vote count. With BJP winning 48 seats in GHMC elections, jubilant party leaders and supporters were seen raising slogans in support of the party. Senior leaders of the party, including Bandi Sanjay and Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, came together to distribute sweets and celebrate the party’s victory in Greater Hyderabad. Long before any results emerged, several national BJP leaders and ministers started posting congratulatory tweets. “Early trends emerging from Hyderabad indicate a change in popular mood & shape of things to come. Policies of transformative development are hard to beat & always triumph over hollow populism & fake narrative,” tweeted Hardeep Singh Puri, Union civil aviation minister. TRS headquarters Telangana Bhavan at Banjara Hills too witnessed celebrations with artists performing folk dance and enthusiastic party supporters dancing to Tollywood and Bollywood numbers. Celebrations were also rife at Darusalem at All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen headquarters after the party could retain 42 seats. The AIMIM supporters burst firecrackers at the headquarters as dhol-tasha was played to celebrate the party’s victory in the Old City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/celebrations-restricted-to-party-offices-in-city/articleshow/79573695.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||RBI extends liquidity to stressed sectors with cheaper refinance||Mumbai: Stressed sectors have got a fresh line of support with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) extending its targeted long-term repo operations (TLTROs) to the 26 industries — including power, realty and textiles — identified by the K V Kamath-led committee for loan relief. The TLTRO is a facility under which the RBI nudges banks to lend by providing them cheap refinance for loans and bond investments. Earlier this year, when NBFCs were facing a credit squeeze, the RBI helped them navigate the crisis by making available cheap funds to banks, which lent to them. As a result the finance companies were able to smoothly meet their short-term repayment obligations during the lockdown. According to bankers, while the TLTRO encourages banks by providing them a large margin, the emergency credit line guarantee scheme, which has been extended to the same 26 sectors, will address the credit risk. “There is a clear signal to align the TLTRO with the emergency line of credit with government guarantee, which is a good step. Hence, banks can take money from the RBI under the TLTRO and use these funds for lending to these sectors as identified by the Kamath committee, and also get a guarantee from the government based on the terms of the scheme,” Care Ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis said in a note. Some analysts feel that given the surplus liquidity, banks may not find it necessary to tap the RBI for funds. However, bankers point out that credit growth is picking up from November. “The growth is expected to be better with the GDP estimate being revised upwards for FY21. The credit offtake is expected to get a boost, we expect it to top at least 8% in the days to come,” said Punjab National Bank MD & CEO CHSS Mallikarjuna Rao. “Given the surplus liquidity situation and decline in short-term rates below reverse repo rates, the banks have significantly repaid the funding availed from the RBI under various long-term repo operations,” said ICRA vice-president Anil Gupta. “The outstanding against the past LTROs stood at Rs 77,000 crore as on December 3, 2020 against the total LTRO operations of Rs 2.12 lakh crore. Hence the availability of on-tap TLTRO funding to banks is unlikely to be an incremental incentive for banks from a funding point of view,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-extends-liquidity-to-stressed-sectors-with-cheaper-refinance/articleshow/79573705.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Police on tenterhooks as tension prevails in Jangammet||Hyderabad: Police were on tenterhooks as tension prevailed during counting of votes in Jangammet division in Bandlaguda on Friday. The members of AIMIM and BJP traded blows inside the counting centre after some votes were declared as invalid. Security personnel had to intervene to control the situation. Sensing further trouble, senior police officials, including additional commissioner of police DS Chauhan rushed to the spot. Though the police claimed that no one was injured, it is learnt that one person sustained injuries. The dispute started after several votes were declared invalid due to technical reasons. As the contest was tight between MIM and BJP, the polling agents were not willing to lose even a single vote as invalid. It took two hours for police to pacify party workers. Counting resumed around 6 pm. Police were on guard until the counting was completed and members of both parties left the venue. A similar incident was reported at Uppuguda in BN Reddy Nagar. BJP workers staged a protest at the counting centre after TRS was declared the winner of Macha Bollaram ward. Protesters were arrested and taken to Shamirpet police station. Meanwhile, Jubilee Hills police apprehended an associate of AIMIM party’s Erragadda contestant after he allegedly carried a cell phone in the counting hall at the Kotla Vijay Bhaskar Reddy stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-on-tenterhooks-as-tension-prevails-in-jangammet/articleshow/79573709.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Meerut||25 UP' Bijnor villages finally get pontoon bridge over Ganga||BIJNORE: As a child, Sunita Devi, now 45, saw her parents hopping on to a rickety boat to cross the Ganga to work in fields on the other side, every day. Years later, she too joined them. For generations, a stretch of the mighty river in Bijnor separated thousands of people from their work, relatives and friends. And hundreds drowned while crossing it in the last few decades. The “tipping point”, the villagers say, came in August of 2018, when ten women drowned near Daivalgarh in yet another boat capsize. It was then that people of 25 villages started holding protests demanding a bridge. “But the sympathies generated by the drowning deaths soon vanished and officials stopped paying attention to our plight,” Devi said. In July last year, the villagers organised a ‘mahapanchayat’ and looked towards the holy river for solution. Hundreds of them, after bowing before it, entered into its water to launch a unique protest which finally brought attention to their cause. For the next 32 days, hundreds of men, women and children took turns to stand neck-deep in the swollen river at Daibalgarh village, close to where the women had drowned. The agitation ended only after the local administration sent a proposal to the state government for the sanction. The proposal got the government nod in December last year. On Friday, the bridge was opened to the public after a brief but colourful function. Villagers, even elders and women, ran on it to reach the other side. Holding back her tears, Devi said, “Now no one will die. We are grateful to the administration and to the government. The bridge will bring people of both sides closer. Scores of people go to farming to the other side daily. Now they will be safe.” Executive engineer of PWD, Sunil Sagar, told TOI that the 330-metre long pontoon bridge cost over Rs 2 crore. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rajendra Singh, one of the locals who led the protests, said, “It is the victory of unity of the villagers. Our years old demand has been fulfilled. Villagers will be able to ferry their crop in tractor-trolley across the river. The bridge will connect this area with Muzaffarnagar district as well. Villagers used to cover a distance of just 80km to reach Muzaffarnagar. Now the distance will be reduced to 40km.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-scores-of-drowning-deaths-people-of-25-bijnor-villages-finally-get-a-pontoon-bridge-over-ganga/articleshow/79571203.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 5, 2020||Meerut||Bus runs over passengers in UP's Shamli, three minors killed||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Three minors aged between nine months and 12 years died on the spot while six people were injured on Friday, when a speeding roadways bus ran over a group of passengers waiting at a bus stop at Charthawal bus stop in Thanabhawan in UP's Shamli district. Witnesses said the driver lost control of the wheel and it crushed the waiting passengers. The driver has been arrested. Six people at the spot were injured in varying degrees and rushed to a local hospital. The condition of some of the injured is stated to be critical. Senior officials of the administration and police department visited the spot to take stock of the situation. According to sources, a speeding Uttar Pradesh roadways bus coming from the direction of Saharanpur, suddenly crushed several people standing at the bus stop, killing three minors and injuring several others. Locals informed police about the accident. The latter rushed to the spot along with emergency service. They shifted the injured to hospital. The deceased were identified as Mayank, (nine months), who was with his mother, a resident of Nirpuda village in Baghpat. She too sustained severe injuries. The other two deceased were Rohit (12), and Ishika, (three years old). Both were from Muzaffarnagar. Police have seized the bus and arrested the driver. The bus was coming from Jalalabad bus depot. The driver claimed that he lost control of the bus due to a technical issue. Sukirti Madhav, superintendent of police, Shamli, said," The driver was sent for a medical examination to find out if he was drunk. Further investigation is on in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-minors-die-as-roadways-bus-runs-over-passengers-in-shamli-six-people-hurt/articleshow/79571197.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP surge in Hyd temporary: Asad||Hyderabad: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday said the saffron surge in Telangana was temporary and vowed to stop the BJP from making further inroads in the state. Speaking at a media conference after winning 44 seats out of 150 wards in the GHMC polls, the Hyderabad MP said AMIM will strengthen its base in Telangana and other parts of India. “In 2023, they will not get such a win," Owaisi added, referring to the next assembly election in Telangana. The AIMIM chief also heaped praise on chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and said he was one of the big faces in South India. “KCR is a formidable political face of South India, and he represents the ideology, hopes and aspirations of Telanganites,” said Owaisi, while adding that TRS still remains an opposition party. “But KCR is a regional face which is important, and I am sure KCR will be bhaari (heavy)on BJP,” he added. Pertaining to the mayor’s post, he said he will have a discussion with his party members. “Give us some time to celebrate. We will discuss with our party MLAs, MLCs, senior party leaders and people holding responsible positions,” he added. We will fight BJP in a constitutional manner. It’s a temporary win, which will not stand in a long way. People of Old City have done a democratic strike on Sangh Pariwar, where BJP said they will do a surgical strike||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-surge-in-hyd-temporary-asad/articleshow/79573698.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 5, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Rs 7 lakh relief for widow of techie ‘killed’ by cops||PATNA: The Bihar Human Rights Commission (BHRC) on Friday awarded a compensation of Rs 7 lakh to the widow of a software engineer, Ashutosh Kumar Pathak, who was brutally beaten to death allegedly by the SHO of Bihpur police station in Bhagalpur district, and some other policemen, following a minor brawl on the road during Durga Puja in October this year. Taking suo motu cognisance of the case based on newspaper reports, the BHRC sought a report from Bhagalpur DM. “Such incidents are unacceptable in a civilised society. The state government should ensure the ‘strictest-possible’ and exemplary punishment to the guilty policemen so that no policeman can muster the courage to commit such a heinous crime in future,” commission member (Judicial), Ujjawal Kumar Dubey, said in the order while awarding the compensation to the deceased’s widow. The commission further asked the Bhagalpur DM to ensure payment of Rs 7 lakh to the deceased’s widow Sneha Kumari by February 10, 2021. “The state government has an option that it can, as per the rules, realize the amount of compensation from the guilty policemen,” Dubey said in his 7-page order. The scuffle between the policemen and Pathak took place at Mahesh Sthan Chowk on NH-31 under Bihpur police station around 3 pm on October 24 when the techie was returning to his native village Mandwa on a motorcycle with his wife Sneha Kumari and their two-year-old daughter Manvi after performing puja at the nearby Bhramarpur Durga Sthan. Pathak, who was employed by a private firm in Pune, had returned to his village after the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19. As per a police inquiry report submitted to the BHRC, the 30-year-old Pathak was not only brutally thrashed by then SHO Ranjit Kumar, his private driver Jehangir Rain and three other policemen, but was also locked-up for three hours while the victim continued to bleed. Pathak fell unconscious inside the police lock-up due to excessive bleeding. He was released from the lock-up for treatment only after his uncle and some other people reached the police station and requested the SHO. Pathak died at Mayaganj hospital (Bhagalpur) around 3 am on October 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs7l-relief-for-widow-of-techie-killed-by-cops/articleshow/79571436.cms||Madan Kumar
December 5, 2020||Meerut||Meerut jeweller’s ‘Marigold Diamond Ring’, with 12,600 stones, enters Guinness World Records||MEERUT: Just over a month ago, Hyderabad jeweller Kotti Srikanth set a record for the most diamonds set in a ring, 7,801. Now, Meerut’s Harshit Bansal has broken that record with what he calls the 'Marigold Diamond Ring' — an eight-layer 165.45 g piece with 12,638 diamonds of 38.08 carat. It has entered the Guinness World Records. “It all started when my wife and I read about a Guinness record of a ring with 6,690 diamonds in 2018. This was around the time when I was opening my first store in Meerut. Always aiming at making customised jewellery, this was a challenge of sorts. The work on the ring started in 2018 and it was completed by February 2020,” said Harshit, 25, who learnt jewel designing from Surat after doing his BBA and MBA from SRM University here. He owns a store named after his parents Renu Bansal and Anil Bansal. Each and every diamond was specially tested and all of them are of EF colour and Very Very Slightly Included (VVS) clarity. These are the best qualities of diamond used in jewellery worldwide. The ring is certified by International Gemological Laboratory (IGI) which is one of the most prestigious labs for diamond jewellery certification globally. The ring is human wearable. How did the design of the marigold strike him? Harshit explained, “I was trying to think about designs for a long time, and eventually found it in my garden. A marigold flower caught my eye and I put it in between my fingers to see how it will look. It was then that I decided.” Each petal in the ring is uniquely shaped and none of the petals are identical to each other which gives the ring a perfect blend of organic symmetry, design and alignment, Harshit said. Asked about the ring's price, he said, “It is priceless. We will keep it with us for now. It has an emotional attachment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-jewellers-marigold-diamond-ring-with-12600-stones-enters-guinness-world-records/articleshow/79571205.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 5, 2020||Meerut||Shamli murder solved: Three held for killing man during carjacking bid||MUZAFFARNAGAR: With the arrest of three men, all having criminal records, Shamli police has claimed to have solved the murder of a 48-year-old man whose body with a bullet injury was found in his SUV in Jhinjhana area in the district on Wednesday morning. The victim, Rajkumar Sharma, had left his house on Tuesday night to meet his friends. Later, his body was found in his SUV. Police claimed that Sharma was killed when he resisted a carjacking attempt by the trio. However, the suspects had to abandon the car as it got stuck in the mud. Sukirti Madhav, superintendent of police, said the three, identified as Nirankar, Deepak and Rohit of Shamli and Bhagat, were arrested on Friday. All have several criminal cases against them, A country-made weapon and bullets were seized from them. The trio was sent to jail after being produced before the magistrate.” Further investigation is on into the matter,” the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/shamli-murder-solved-three-held-for-killing-man-during-carjacking-bid/articleshow/79571208.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 5, 2020||Meerut||Two traders in two UP cities kill themselves over financial losses||MEERUT: Sanjay Garg, a dairy product distributor in Kotwali area of Bulandshahr district, allegedly shot himself in the head after suffering financial losses in the business in the past few months. According to police, the deceased trader was under stress due to reported losses and took the extreme step of ending his life. His body was found in a pool of blood with bullet wounds to his head from point blank range. The body was recovered from his house and later sent for postmortem. "The deceased was under severe stress due to losses in trade. He killed himself using a country-made gun. Further action will be taken based on the findings of the investigation," Atul Srivastava, Bulandshahr SP (city) said. In a similar incident in Shamli district, local businessman Mohit Jain had allegedly self-immolated owing to business losses. Family initially rushed him to Muzaffarnagar and later to a higher medical facility in Delhi where he succumbed on Thursday. The local police, refraining to comment on the motive behind Jain taking the extreme step, claimed the deceased was partially paralysed after a recent accident. "Police were not informed about the incident. We later contacted the family and learnt he was in a state of depression but the exact motive could not be ascertained yet," Satypal Singh, Shamli Kotwali SHO, said. According to sources, no suicide notes were found in both the cases, and the families have not pressed any charges so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-traders-in-two-up-cities-kill-themselves-over-financial-losses/articleshow/79571209.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||Meerut jeweller’s ‘Marigold Diamond Ring’, with 12,600 stones, enters Guinness World Records||MEERUT: Just over a month ago, Hyderabad jeweller Kotti Srikanth set a record for the most diamonds set in a ring, 7,801. Now, Meerut’s Harshit Bansal has broken that record with what he calls the 'Marigold Diamond Ring' — an eight-layer 165.45 g piece with 12,638 diamonds of 38.08 carat. It has entered the Guinness World Records. “It all started when my wife and I read about a Guinness record of a ring with 6,690 diamonds in 2018. This was around the time when I was opening my first store in Meerut. Always aiming at making customised jewellery, this was a challenge of sorts. The work on the ring started in 2018 and it was completed by February 2020,” said Harshit, 25, who learnt jewel designing from Surat after doing his BBA and MBA from SRM University here. He owns a store named after his parents Renu Bansal and Anil Bansal. Each and every diamond was specially tested and all of them are of EF colour and Very Very Slightly Included (VVS) clarity. These are the best qualities of diamond used in jewellery worldwide. The ring is certified by International Gemological Laboratory (IGI) which is one of the most prestigious labs for diamond jewellery certification globally. The ring is human wearable. How did the design of the marigold strike him? Harshit explained, “I was trying to think about designs for a long time, and eventually found it in my garden. A marigold flower caught my eye and I put it in between my fingers to see how it will look. It was then that I decided.” Each petal in the ring is uniquely shaped and none of the petals are identical to each other which gives the ring a perfect blend of organic symmetry, design and alignment, Harshit said. Asked about the ring's price, he said, “It is priceless. We will keep it with us for now. It has an emotional attachment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/meerut-jewellers-marigold-diamond-ring-with-12600-stones-enters-guinness-world-records/articleshow/79577524.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 5, 2020||Chennai||10 die in rain-related incidents as heavy showers pound Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: At least 10 people died, including three girls who were washed away by the Palar river in Kancheepuram, in rain related incidents on Friday as heavy showers continued to pound Tamil Nadu leading to inundation of crops and waterlogging in many areas. The deep depression over Gulf of Mannar about 40km southwest of Ramanathapuram may weaken into a depression in the next 12 hours and later into a low pressure area, the IMD said. Several towns reported heavy to extremely heavy rainfall including Kollidam in Nagapattinam district (36cm) and Chidambaram in Cuddalore (34cm). Other towns across central and southern TN received between 10cm and 28cm of rain. Some parts of the Mayuranathasawamy temple in Mayiladuthurai and the Chidambaram Natarajar temple were inundated. Jeyasri, 16, her sister Subha Sri, 15, and their friend, Poorni, 14, of Thumbavanam village in Kancheepuram district, drowned when they stepped into the gushing Palar at Orikkai near Kancheepuram. The bodies of the sisters have been retrieved. Rain floods 30K hectares of farmland in NagapattinamAccording to police, Damodaran, a relative who had taken them to the river for sightseeing, attempted to save them but failed. A case has been registered by the Magaral police. In Thanjavur district, R Kuppusamy, 70, and his wife K Yasodha, 65, of Elumichanga Palayam near Kumbakonam died in a wall collapse at their house around 2am on Friday, while 80-yearold G Sarathambal of Vadakal near Kallaperambur died as the thatched roof of her house crashed on her while she was asleep at 3am on Friday. Her daughter-inlaw Lakshmi and six-yearold grandson escaped with injuries. Three people in Pudukottai and Mayiladuthurai districts died of electrocution. A Sarathkumar, 31, from Keelamathur village, was electrocuted after he stepped on a snapped live wire around 1 am on Friday, while 13-yearold V Swetha of TVS street in Alangudi accidentally came in contact with a power cable near her terrace and T Anjali, 16, from Nambanpatti in Alangudi in Pudukottai district stepped on a live wire that got snapped due to rain. C Balamurugan,48, of Neelagiri in Thanjavur district, a meat stall worker, drowned in Odambogi River that was in spate while trying to dump the poultry waste from his truck into the river. In Nagapattinam district, rain left 29,989 hectares of samba and thaladi crops inundated. A total of 321huts were partially damaged and 12 huts were fully submerged. The rain also destroyed 24 tiled-roof houses. According to H M Jayaram, IG, central zone, 1,200 local and armed reserve police personnel, 15 rescue teams of 10 commandos each, and 1,200 volunteers from the fishermen community have been mobilized for Nagappattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. Four companies of Tamil Nadu disaster response force (TNDRF) were on the way to the districts, he said. Thanjavur district recorded 122.16mm of rainfall on Friday and 8,714 hectares of crop, including paddy, was inundated. Traffic was hit across the district and rain had partially damaged 168 huts and left 39 cattle dead. According to food minister R Kamaraj, 219 houses were damaged and 29 cattle died in rain-related incidents in Tiruvarur district. A total of 1,800 people were evacuated to 47 relief camps in the district. Wide spread rainfall was also reported across Trichy, Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Perambalur districts, with Trichy city recording the season’s highest rainfall of 39mm on Thursday. BOX: Snapped power line kills city manR Suresh, 35, of Nagoorar Thottam near Kasimedu was electrocuted after he stepped on a live cable while walking through stagnant rainwater near his locality late on Thursday. According to some residents, a complaint was made to the electricity department a few days ago about the snapped power line. Police recovered the body and sent it to the GH for postmortem after EB officials turned off the power supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-die-in-rain-related-incidents-as-heavy-showers-pound-tn/articleshow/79572417.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||SEC hijacked, says former IAS officer||Hyderabad: The SEC and the GHMC election officials faced flak from various quarters for the undue haste and blunders in the conduct of GHMC polls. The SEC’s decision to conduct the elections in a hurry, allegedly on the directions of the ruling TRS, resulted in poor training of staff drafted for polling duty and bloopers in the conduct of polls, former elections officials and political leaders said. Retired IAS officer RV Chandravadan, who worked as commissioner of excise and I&PR, said the SEC is a constitutional body having all the powers to act independently. “But, it has been hijacked,” he said. “The way the SEC conducted the GHMC election by completing the process in 14 days, going for ballot paper instead of EVMs and Thursday night’s circular that votes polled with distinguished mark other than swastika mark would be valid gave rise to suspicions and showed its high-handed behaviour,” said Chandravadan. He said SEC chief C Partha Sarathi should firmly put his foot down even if there was pressure on him to toe the ruling party line. “Several officers who served as SECs had refused to budge to the pressure tactics of the ruling party,” he recalled. After facing embarrassment for printing a wrong symbol of the CPI on the ballot paper in old Malakpet ward which resulted in a repoll, the officials goofed up on the polling day by giving to the voters a stick other than the one having swastika symbol to cast their vote. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay demanded the resignation of Sarathi. “If he does not resign, the government should remove him. If the KCR government fails to remove him, people of Telangana will remove KCR-led TRS from the ruling party position,” Sanjay said. Sarathi, reacted sharply to the charges and said he followed the rule book at every step. “The government amended the GHMC Act and the SEC has to issue a poll notification in consultation with the state government. CPI symbol error took place at the time of printing of ballot paper at the returning officer level. On distinguished marking other than swastika, we followed the rule book. A counter writ appeal has been filed against the high court order,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-hijacked-says-former-ias-officer/articleshow/79573712.cms||Roushan Ali
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Changing four candidates in Secunderabad circle helps TRS||SECUNDERABAD: Despite facing stiff challenge from the BJP, the TRS managed to maintain its stranglehold on the Secunderabad circle by retaining all the five wards _ Addagutta, Mettuguda, Sitaphalmandi, Tarnaka, and Boudha Nagar. While many of his colleagues are struggling to come to terms with the results, Secunderabad MLA and deputy speaker T Padma Rao Goud stood tall as he ensured victory for his party in all wards. Many felt that the high command’s decision to field four new and only one sitting member worked in TRS favour. TRS working president KT Rama Rao had also campaigned in strategic locations in the Secunderabad circle. Sitting member S Hema retained the Sitaphalmandi ward by defeating the BJP candidate with a margin of 1,201 votes. M Srilatha won the Tarnaka ward, K Sailja emerged triumphant from Boudha Nagar, R Sunitha was victorious from Mettuguda and Prasanna Lakshmi contested successfully from Addagutta. The TRS candidates maintained leads from the first round itself. By 7 pm the first result was announced when R Sunitha was declared winner from Mettuguda division. Buoyed with the victory, the corporator-elects assured to resolve the civic issues on priority. “Resolving the drainage and drinking water problems in Addagutta is my first priority,” said Prasanna Lakshmi, who won the election for the first time. It was a unique experience for S Hema as counting was held in her college. “It is an unforgettable experience for me as the counting was conducted in Osmania University College of Commerce and Business Management, where I was once a student,” Hema said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/changing-4-candidates-in-secbad-circle-helps-trs/articleshow/79573714.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 5, 2020||Goa||Cong for ex-power mantri’s ouster over recruitment ‘scam’||Panaji: Congress on Friday said the high court of Bombay at Goa’s order quashing the appointment of 32 assistant data entry operators was sufficient cause for urban development minister and former power minister Milind Naik to resign from the cabinet. It said that chief minister Pramod Sawant should sack Naik from the government if he refuses to step down. “Milind Naik should resign for putting people out of jobs, for making them suffer,” said Congress youth president Varad Mardolkar. “If he remains, it is Goa’s loss. It is a high court order and not a claim by us. He does not deserve to remain a minister.” The party’s legal cell chairman Carlos Ferreira, said that Congress will file an FIR against the former chief electrical engineer and Naik for deliberately tweaking the selection process to favour those close to the minister. While quashing the appointment of the 32 data entry operators, the court had said that the department used “subterfuge” to ensure that certain candidates were selected while those in the merit list were dropped. Congress has accused BJP of indulging in a cash-for-jobs scam and said that a similar modus operandi will be used when the government tries to fill up 10,000 posts. “There are deserving candidates who did not get the jobs and there are illegally appointed candidates who have been working and have families. Both are unhappy today,” said Ferreira. Congress said the government was trying to use the promise of jobs to win the upcoming zilla panchayat and municipal elections while also trying to curry favour among voters for the 2022 assembly elections. “The government is lying about the 10,000 jobs. BJP will take money but not give jobs. This is a ploy to create an election fund by promising jobs,” said Mardolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-for-ex-power-mantris-ouster-over-recruitment-scam/articleshow/79574353.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bareilly||Admin makes new competitive category to attract UP youth to cane farming||PILIBHIT: The state cane administration has created a new category of sugarcane farmers, namely ‘young sugarcane farmers’, for participation in intra-state sugarcane competitions to be organised by the department from 2021. The maximum age limit for this category has been fixed at 30 years. Earlier, the competition included five categories — the highest average yield of ratoon cane, early plant cane, general plant cane and best use of drip irrigation. Additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, said this way, they hope to lure the youth of farming families from deserting agriculture and migrating to cities in search of jobs. “We also hope to infuse a spirit of healthy competition in the minds of youths, by creating better conditions for sugarcane cultivation. This, in turn, should attract the youth of farming families towards sugarcane cropping as self-employment, and make them strive to increase productivity of sugarcane under the departmental package of schemes for higher remuneration,” Bhoosreddy said. In order to attract the youth towards sugarcane cultivation, he said he has evolved a plan to communicate with them regularly, and to encourage them to adopt intensive farming using advanced scientific multiple-cropping techniques, to earn high profits, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/admin-makes-new-competitive-category-to-attract-up-youth-to-cane-farming/articleshow/79571218.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Savitribai Phule Pune University to hold current semester exam in January||PUNE: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will conduct examinations for the current semester in January 2021. A notification was issued on Thursday night by the examination department. Students who have backlogs in the final-year examinations conducted in October and regular students can fill up the exam forms starting from December 5. The examination will be conducted in a proctored online model with multiple-choice questions. Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation, said, “AI-based image proctoring and analyses of data will be used for proctoring the examination. Hence, it is compulsory for the students to use a gadget with its front camera always on.” The students have been told to use the same email ID as was registered in the student portal system. However, if, for any reason, the student wants to change his registered email id, he or she must write to Lalit Pawar and Swati Barhate, both officials from the examination department. SPPU has come out with a list of pointers which will help the students understand how best to study for and attempt an MCQ-based examination. “Earlier the students could write long essay-type answers. But now they must know the exact answer to a question. Hence, the students should prepare well,” Kakade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-to-hold-current-semester-exam-in-jan/articleshow/79572434.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Notorious bike thief, 58, held, 21 vehicles recovered||Trichy: A special team formed to crack a series of two-wheeler thefts, arrested a 58-year-old notorious bike lifter in Trichy on Thursday.The team, led by sub-inspector of police, fort police station, T Karunakaran arrested V Malarmannan of Pattinankurichi near Aandimadam in Ariyalur district. Police recovered a total of 21 stolen bikes from him. While 10 of them were lifted from Trichy, the remaining vehicles were stolen from the neighbouring districts. The worth of the recovered vehicles from Trichy city was Rs 7 lakh. Malarmannan’s modus operandi was to steal bikes parked outside the houses during the midnight by using duplicate keys. Karunakaran used to reach the Central bus stand in Trichy, stay on the premises and start his operation around 2am.After stealing the bikes, he used to dispose them of in the rural parts of Ariyalur dsitrict. He would choose people in rural areas and mortgage them for Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000. He would never take back the vehicles. He had already been booked in Trichy and Cuddalore districts for such thefts. After being arrested and released shortly, he shifted his base to Cuddalore area. He was again arrested last year in Vriddhachalam. he walked out of prison in February this year. After coming out of prison, he put on hold his operation due to Covid-19 and resumed his handiwork in September. Police managed to match his identity with the CCTV footage available in the Fort police station jurisdiction. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/notorious-bike-thief-58-held-21-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/79573725.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Cyclone affects availability of fish||Trichy: As back-to-back cyclones over the Bay of Bengal have kept fishermen off the seas, the arrival of fish to the city has been severely affected in the last two weeks. Ever since Nivar cyclone passed through the state, only a limited variety of fishes has been available following a dip in arrival from coastal districts including Nagapattinam. With Cyclone Burevi following in Nivar’s trail, fishermen in Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari districts have not been able to venture out. “Several fish varieties such as anchovy (nethili), seer fish (vanjiram) and barracuda (sheela) are not available due to adverse weather condition in the sea. We are managing with what we get,” said S Badrinath, proprietor of Ocean pick seafood. Expecting it to continue for a week or more, vendors have started procuring fishes from Kerala to meet the demand. “Threadfin fish (sankara) and ladyfish (kilangan) are at presently procured from Kerala coast. For the next one week, we expect a fall in the arrival of fishes from the coastal districts of the state,” T Ashok Kumar, a fish vendor from Kasivilangi market added. Vendors said that prices have remained the same to prevent people from avoiding seafood and going after meat. A majority of the fish vendors here rely on Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram fishers, both of which are witnessing the impact of cyclones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cyclone-affects-availability-of-fish/articleshow/79573723.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 5, 2020||Pune||A few private schools in Pune put off hike in fees||PUNE: Private schools in the city have begun sending emails and newsletters to parents about their decisions to not hike fees this year. Victorious Kidss Educares (VKE), an IB World School in Kharadi, sent out an e-mail to parents recently stating that the school’s management appreciated all those who had faith in them during this unprecedented time. President of VKE, Robbin Ghosh, said, “In the next academic year (2021-22), the management and senior members of Victorious Kidss Educares, have decided there will be no hike in the tuition fees for students from play group to diploma students.” In 2018-19, the VKE school management had reduced the tuition fees of the entire school. This year, the school helped many distressed parents. Peshwa Acharya, chief marketing officer at Vibgyor Group of Schools, said parents were being notified about the no hike in fees for the academic year 2021-2022. “We have transitioned all admission formalities to digital, and are providing assistance to parents who may encounter issues in completing the online admission form and sharing the necessary documents via email,” he said. In July, the Bishop’s Education Society, sent an e-mail to parents of students studying in all their three branches in Camp, Kalyaninagar and Undri stating that the school’s management empathised with the parents struggling to cope with basic needs, as well as education of their wards, owing to financial difficulties posed by the loss of jobs and pay cuts in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic. A letter from Joel Edwin, honorary secretary of the society, said, “Parents must feel free to contact the schools’ representatives in case there was any relief that the institutions could provide.” The school also stayed the fee hike for 2019-20 academic year in wake of the pandemic. With many parents demanding a concession in fees from schools on the basis of financial difficulties during the Covid-19 pandemic, some schools in Pimpri Chinchwad have sought bank statements from the parents to verify whether the parent is actually suffering a financial setback. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation education officer Jyotsna Shinde has come down against such schools demanding bank statements and sent a show-cause notice to one of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-few-pvt-schools-put-off-hike-in-fees/articleshow/79572427.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 5, 2020||Bareilly||Cane ACS showcauses 8 officers for crop residue burning in their districts||Pilibhit: The additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, has called cane officers of eight districts — Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Kushinagar and Maharajganj — to explain their shoddy implementation of curbs on burning crop residue in sugarcane fields, and their failure to promote alternative methods of crop residue management. The decision followed after the UP cane administration collected reports on crop residue management across the state from various official sources.“Directions have been issued to district cane officers, deputy cane commissioners and sugar mills across the state, to generate mass awareness among farmers about the detrimental effects of burning dry sugarcane leaves, through seminars, distribution of pamphlets, posters on walls in rural areas, print and electronic media,” Bhoosreddy said.He said as many as 126 farm machinery banks have been set up with cooperative cane and sugar mill societies across the state to facilitate farmers with easy and affordable access to advanced farm machinery to mulch dry sugarcane leaves into compost. Departmental officials have been given strict orders to ensure widespread publicity of these machinery banks among all sugarcane growers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-acs-showcauses-8-officers-for-crop-residue-burning-in-their-districts/articleshow/79571222.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Weakened Burevi unleashes rain havoc in delta, south TN; 7 dead||Chennai/Trichy/Madurai: Cyclone Burevi, which brought heavy spells of rain over south and delta regions of the state while turning into a deep depression, weakened further into a depression on Friday evening even as it remained stationary about 40km from Ramanathapuram the whole of Friday. The rain caused seven deaths in the central region due to wall collapse, electrocution and other incidents.The cloud bands from the weakened system which is scattered over the state is likely to leave more rain over the western and northern districts on Saturday before the system is expected to move towards south Kerala. According to IMD’s evening update, the deep depression, which has remained stationary at around 40km southwest of Ramanathapuram, 70km west-southwest of Pamban and 160km northeast of Kanyakumari, weakened into a depression at 5.30pm on Friday. Officials said it remained stationary since at least Friday 1am possibly due to slow winds unable to push the system further and presence of opposing winds from two anticyclones in the vicinity. It is likely to weaken further into a well-marked low pressure as it moves slowly through Ramanathapuram in the west-southwest direction towards south Kerala by Saturday evening; the agency said. The system, which was earlier stationary over Gulf of Mannar for nearly 18 hours before moving towards Pamban, brought heavy rainfall across south coastal districts, delta region and parts of north Tamil Nadu on Thursday and Friday. But by Saturday, when it weakens and moves, it may bring rainfall to western and northern parts of the state.A couple, R Kuppusamy, 70, and his wife K Yasodha, 65, from Elumichanga Palayam near Kumbakonam were killed after the wall of their tile-roofed house collapsed around 2am. G Sarathambal, 80, of Vadakal near Kallaperambur in Thanjavur district, also died when her thatched roof came down crashing on her around 3am. Three people died of electrocution in Pudukottai and Mayiladuthurai districts. C Balamurugan, 48, of Neelagiri in Thanjavur district, an employee in a chicken meat stall, died while dumping poultry waste in Odambogi river. As he was unloading the waste, his vehicle also fell into the river. Chandrasekar tried to save the truck but also drowned. Many of the southern districts experienced moderate to heavy rain throughout the day on Friday, while cyclone signal number 7 was reduced to 3 in Pamban in Ramanathapuram. Madurai had a cloudy morning and intermittent rainfall was experienced towards the afternoon.In Nagappattinam, the rain left 29,989 hectares of samba and thaladi paddy crops inundated, 321 huts were partly damaged and 12 huts fully. Thanjavur recorded 12.2cm of rainfall on Friday and 8,714 hectares of crops including paddy were submerged. Vehicular movement was stopped in Natham to Aazhivaikkal road, Peravurani to Aranthangi road and Sokkanavur road due to flooding. The rain left 168 huts partly damaged, six huts fully damaged and 37 tiled roofed houses partly damaged in Thanjavur besides leaving 39 cattle dead. State food minister R Kamaraj said that the rain has damaged 219 houses and left 29 cattle dead in Tiruvarur district. Trichy city recorded season’s high rainfall as on Thursday morning. Ponmalai recorded 39.8 mm while Trichy airport and Trichy junction recorded 39.5 mm and 48.2 mm respectively. In Ariyalur, 11 relief centres were established by the district administration in which 425 people were accommodated as on Thursday evening. In Perambalur, 816 people were relocated from low-lying areas and accommodated in the 28 safe shelters. As many as 76 houses were partially damaged in the rain. Rameswaram received the highest rainfall of 204 mm in the southern districts in the last 24 hours ending 8 AM on Friday. Ramanathapuram district received an average rainfall of 53.05 mm. Thangatchimadam recorded 88 mm of rainfall and Pamban 77 mm. Many places in Pamban, Therkuvadi and Chinnapalam in Ramanathapuram district were inundated. Boats were damaged and trees uprooted at many places. Monitoring officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav accompanied by district collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver visited the affected areas. As many as 7,061 people were shifted to the relief centres in the district on Friday.Other districts including Kanyakumari, Tenkasi and Tuticorin had moderate rainfall. Madurai received an average rainfall of 4.52 mm in the last 24 hours and it was Madurai north which recorded the highest of 11 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/weakened-burevi-unleashes-rain-havoc-in-delta-south-tn-7-dead/articleshow/79573729.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Women held for allegedly killing her baby||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Nedumangad police have detained a 28-year-old woman on suspicion of murdering her new-born baby. The police on Thursday recovered the body of the infant boy that was buried near the well on the premises of her residence at Mankuzhi near Nedumangad. Nedumangad sub-inspector Sunil Gopi said that the woman has admitted to murdering the baby boy by smothering him. But the police will book her for murder only after getting opinion of the police surgeon who performed autopsy, on the cause of death. Only after that the arrest will be recorded. The woman was estranged from her husband for the past five years. She has two daughters aged nine and five. She has been living with her daughters and her aged father. The SI said that it was the members of ‘ayalkootam’ (neighbourhood Group) of Kudumbashree who grew suspicious over the activities of the woman and alerted the police. “It is learned that she was in a relationship with a man from Pothencode. Though she became pregnant she kept it a secret,” the SI said. She told her neighbours and close relatives that she was suffering from a lump growth in her stomach and hence the large belly. On Sunday, she gave birth to the child at home. She told the police that the baby was killed when she tried to silence him by covering his mouth when he cried. She then wrapped the body in a saree and buried it near the well. The ayalkootam members living nearby grew suspicious when they noticed that her large belly had suddenly disappeared. Following this, they secretly inspected her house premises and found the earth lose near the well. They dug the spot and found the body and subsequently alerted the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/women-held-for-allegedly-killing-her-baby/articleshow/79561571.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation schools get smart makeover at Rs 24cr||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has embarked on a mission to improve the infrastructure of corporation schools in the city as part of a major modernisation drive. The civic body has allotted Rs 24.2 crore to establish a uniform infrastructure like smart classrooms in all 74 civic body schools to augment the enrollment ratio.For the past few years, corporation was spending around Rs 5 crore or lesser per year towards the education sector. Coming under criticism, the corporation in December 2019 conducted a consultative meeting with all school heads to hear their demands. A majority of them batted for modernisation of classrooms. Following this, the corporation allotted Rs 24.2 crore, the highest ever one-time fund allotted for schools’ redevelopment work. As many as 93 civil works in schools across all four zones were identified of which 16 were completed by December. Every school has been provided with common smart classroom equipped with projectors and audio devices. Additional buildings and toilets were also facilitated. Aluminium composite panels with LED lights have beautified the front elevation of the schools while compound walls were painted with awareness texts.“Green boards have replaced conventional blackboards for better visibility. Comfortable steel benches have been facilitated in all the classrooms. Modern windows were provided to avoid rainwater seepage during monsoons,” a senior corporation official said. Schools have also been provided with battery backup in case of power outage and all buildings have received a a common colour code (magenta and grey combination). “Infrastructure overhaul on a par with private institutes will instill confidence among parents to enrol their children in corporation schools. We will utilise the upgrade to increase enrolment,” D Thiyagarajan, headmaster of Senthaneerpuram corporation high school told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corporation-schools-get-smart-makeover-at-rs-24cr/articleshow/79573730.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 5, 2020||Bareilly||UP youth who works as farm labourer wins Rs 50 lakh at popular game show||BAREILLY: Tej Bahadur Singh, 20, son of a Sanskrit teacher who doesn’t even have proper electricity at home in Uttar Pradesh's Deorania area, took everyone by surprise by winning Rs 50 lakh at a popular game show. Tej, who aspires to become an IAS officer one day, works as a part-time farm labourer in Bareilly district. He took tuitions during lockdown to stay at pace with his studies. His mother Rajkumari had to mortgage her jewellery for her son's admission to a diploma course. She is a true inspiration, Tej said. Now, with this money, Tej first wants to get his mother’s jewellery back and complete his and younger brother’s studies. He also wants to build a house for himself and a small school for the neighbourhood's children. “During lockdown, my father lost his job. He was ill. And the family's responsibility came on me. I had to start working as a farm labourer. I was not used to it,” he told TOI on Friday. Tej is, at present, pursuing civil engineering from a polytechnic college. Tej wanted to shift to a city for further studies, but his father, Harcharan Singh, with a monthly income of Rs 5,500, wasn't prepared. Harcharan had to take care of his two sons' education along with the house. "So, my wife had to mortgage her jewellery for Tej. She is the reason behind his success,” an elated Harcharan said. At college, Tej is dedicated and attentive, his principal Narendra Kumar said. "Our college has always supported him. We are proud of his achievement.” Anam Khalid, a faculty member, assisted him in one of the rounds to win Rs 25 lakh. When asked about his IAS goal, Tej said, “There are two reasons behind it. First, I have a rural background and want to support other children to complete their higher studies. Second, I have worked in farms. So, I want in my own little way to support farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-youth-who-works-as-farm-labourerwins-rs-50-lakh-at-popular-game-show/articleshow/79571235.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: 50 guests’ cap deals a blow to bus bookings during wedding season||PUNE: Private bus operators in the city have reported a major decline in bookings for wedding trips this season with a cap of 50 on the number of guests at each ceremony. “A large number of bookings for weddings have been cancelled, costing us dearly. The wedding season usually fetches extra revenue for transporters with luxury buses,” said Kiran Desai, secretary of the Pune bus owners association. Desai said during the marriage season before the pandemic, close to 500 to 600 buses used to get booked for wedding trips per week. “Not even 50 buses have been booked this wedding season. At present, nothing more than five to seven buses are being booked in a week. The rate of cancellations has been higher than 70%,” Desai further said. “Generally, big groups book two to three buses. After the ceremonies, the buses are needed to visit temples. Now, with the number of guests curtailed to 50, a majority have cut down on grand ceremonies. They are hiring four to five cars instead,” Desai said. A Pune-based tourist bus operator, who earlier used to provide 15 to 20 buses per week during the wedding season, said he has had just two bookings till date. “In terms of earnings, while I used to earn between Rs25-30 lakh in a year from wedding trip bookings before the pandemic. The current revenue is not even Rs15,000,” the transporter told TOI. KK Nirh, a resident of Koregaon Park, who will host a wedding for his son later this month, said everything had been curtailed. “When we planned it last year, the plans were lavish which included a destination wedding in Goa followed by a reception in Pune with around 500 guests. However, the pandemic has foiled our plans and now we have decided on a court marriage followed by a small house party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50-guests-cap-deals-a-blow-to-bus-bookings-during-wedding-season/articleshow/79572439.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 5, 2020||Pune||Pune: Worker held for murder of contractor||PUNE: A construction worker (35) was arrested on Thursday from a village in Uttar Pradesh on the charge of murdering his contractor in their rented accommodation in Jambhe village on November 24. Prima facie probe revealed that the suspect, Arvind Chouhan, killed Ganpat Sangle (24) as the latter denied him leave for Chhath. He also wanted to steal Sangle’s money. “The suspect had withdrawn Rs60,000 using Sangle’s debit card,” an officer from the Hinjewadi police said. The murder came to light on November 27, after foul smell started emanating from Sangle’s rented room. The police found that Chouhan, who worked for Sangle and was also his roommate, was missing. “He had fled to the village he hailed from at Mirzapur district in Uttar Pradesh,” the officer said. Senior inspector Balkrishna Sawant of the Hinjewadi police sent a team to Mirzapur. Chouhan claimed that the deceased was not clearing his dues and also rejected his leave application for Chhath Puja, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worker-held-for-murder-of-contractor/articleshow/79572442.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||‘Mobile’ units to augment waste-processing capacity||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation is introducing “mobile” units to treat dry and mixed garbage collected at various locations in the city.One unit is already operational, while two others are expected to be pressed into service in the next few days.These units would function on the same lines as other garbage processing units, but are “mobile” in the sense that they require lesser infrastructure and need a smaller space; they cannot actually be moved from one place to another.These units would process only dry and mixed garbage, as PMC said it has the capacity to process wet garbage at the existing plants. The trash rejected at the mobile units will be sent to landfill sites.One such processing unit, which started operating on a trial basis in Ramtekdi-Hadapsar, is processing about 200 tonnes of garbage on a daily basis. Two more units are expected to be pressed into service in the next few days. PMC officials said the administration was in talks with agencies to ramp up the daily processing capacity of each mobile unit to 400 tonnes. Additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemnar said, “The Ramtekdi-Hadapsar unit has yielded fairly good results. We have set the ball rolling on another unit in the same area; one more unit too will come up soon.”These units would operate for the next few months as an intermediate measure, as PMC is not sending the collected waste to the Uruli Devachi garbage depot.Review of existing plantsPMC’s standing committee has directed the civic administration to submit a detailed status report on the garbage processing plants to help them draft a plan to increase the efficiency of the city’s waste treatment mechanism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mobile-units-to-augment-waste-processing-capacity/articleshow/79572438.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Another rout: N Uttam Kumar Reddy quits as Telangana Congress chief||HYDERABAD: After yet another dismal performance of the party in an election — having managed to win just two out of the total 150 divisions in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation — Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday resigned as Telangana Congress president. He sent his resignation to the All India Congress Committee leadership with a request to elect the new Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president at the earliest. Congress won two seats in the 2016 GHMC elections under the leadership of Uttam and failed to improve the tally in this election. Though Uttam had offered to step down as TPCC president immediately after Congress’s drubbing in 2018 assembly polls, the high command asked him to continue in the post. Senior leaders openly revolted against Uttam, holding him responsible for the poor show of the party but the All India Congress Committee did not relent. On the poor show, Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy alleged the BJP and TRS of spending huge monies to win the GHMC elections. “The Congress contested the elections on development plank. We will review the reasons for our loss,” he said. Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir said the results came as a huge disappointment but claimed the party would bounce back. “Victory and defeat are not new to the 138-year-old Congress party,” he said. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) , Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) misled the voters with a false narrative. “Yet, more than 50% of voters stayed away from polling but remaining voters got misled and voted for TRS, BJP and MIM,” he said.  He said the party’s vote share had increased significantly in these elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/another-rout-uttam-quits-as-tpcc-chief/articleshow/79573726.cms||Roushan Ali
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Over 8kg gold seized at Trichy airport||Trichy: About 8.5 kg gold worth Rs 4.25 crore was seized from eight passengers who came in two separate flights from Dubai at Trichy international airport on Friday.The seizure was carried out by joint teams from Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) Coimbatore and Trichy regional units made based on specific intelligence. The passengers had concealed 24-carat gold in packs in their clothes. They had mixed the gold in a compound. Two passengers came in an Indigo flight and six others including a woman came in an air India express flight that landed in Trichy international airport in succession. On arrival, a search was conducted and the gold was recovered.On November 12, sleuths from air intelligence unit of Trichy international airport had seized 2.5 kg of gold worth Rs 1.25 crore from two passengers from Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-8kg-gold-seized-at-trichy-airport/articleshow/79573740.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bareilly||Village head, sugar mill MD amongeight booked for 'fake cane centre'||BAREILLY: A village head and an MD of a sugar mill have been booked along with six others under the sections of forgery for allegedly running a fake cane procurement centre near a mill in Ujhani area of Budaun district. At the “fake” sugarcane procurement centre, accused used to purchase cane from farmers at rates lower than the MSP and then supply them to the mill. The main accused has been identified as Abhijeet Patel, who is also the nephew of an influential politician. Hundreds of quintals of sugarcane purchased from the farmers have been seized by the district cane officer Ramkishan. “The fake centre came to the notice of DM Kumar Prashant. There were some complaints from farmers. Our officials raided the centre and found the complaints to be true," the district cane officer said. "We found one truck and three carts loaded with cane from the centre. The accused managed to escape from the spot, but we have identified a few of them,” he added. An FIR under sections of cheating, documents fraud and the Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act has been registered against Abhijeet Patel, Gajendra Patel, Krunal Yadav, Suresh Chandra, DK Srivastava and three unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/village-head-sugar-mill-md-amongeight-booked-for-fake-cane-centre/articleshow/79571253.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||FYJC second merit list out today after 3-month delay||PUNE: The directorate of secondary and higher secondary education will declare the second merit list for First Year Junior College admissions online on Saturday after a delay of nearly three months. As many as 76,486 seats are up for grabs in 304 colleges in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad limits. Students can check their allotment status online at 11am after logging on to https://pune.11thadmission.org.in They can complete the admission process by December 9. They must click on ‘Proceed For Admission’ if they are willing to accept the allotted junior college and confirm their admission. Meanwhile, registration and part-I form filling will also start for new applicants for the next round. As per the original schedule, the second merit list was supposed to be declared on September 10. However, the Supreme Court’s interim decision to stay the Maratha reservation in admissions led to the cancellation of the first schedule and the delay. About 8,900 seats which were previously reserved for SEBC students in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad junior colleges have now been merged with the open category. The admission process restarted on November 26, with the display of vacancies and also the restart of the online form filling process which continued till December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fyjc-second-merit-list-out-today-after-3-mth-delay/articleshow/79572448.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GHMC outcome may give impetus to BJP’s south plans||HYDERABAD: “A victory in GHMC today will lead to victory in the next assembly elections in Telangana tomorrow, a victory tomorrow will lead to BJP‘s emergence in all southern states the day after”. This mantra was drilled into BJP cadre by party’s national leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda, during their campaign for the civic polls. BJP’s performance in the GHMC polls would help to push for its grand dream of making inroads into south India, though its immediate focus might be on Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya, during his campaign, also spoke about the southern march of the saffron party. However, Dubbak MLA Raghunandan Rao, who actually set the ball rolling for BJP’s aggressive pitch with his caustic remarks in GHMC polls, had stated that Dubbak and GHMC verdicts were going to be turning points for BJP and southern politics. Amit Shah to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath to dozen of other leaders, who campaigned and camped in the city, reiterated the party’s southern plans. Except Karnataka, BJP had never been able to breach the southern fortress. Incidentally, the party has presence in pockets of Greater Hyderabad for long and even sent MLAs to the assembly from these areas. BJP leaders even announced that GHMC elections were a referendum before the next assembly elections in Telangana. While BJP had it relatively easy with no formidable opposition in place, it emerged as a strong challenger to the ruling TRS.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The neighbouring Andhra Pradesh might be keenly looking at Hyderabad results. With TDP on the other side of the political spectrum, Jana Sena on its side, BJP’s game plan is clear, say sources. Party wants to fight TDP first for the opposition role as the latter has only two digit seats in the assembly. In Kerala, where Congress and Left parties are strong, BJP wants to first make its present felt. Union minister Amit Shah’s visits to south might become frequent now. Interestingly, BJP has fielded over 600 candidates from Christian and Muslim communities in the local body polls to be conducted this month. This is a ploy to reach out to them where their numbers are high. In Tamil Nadu, BJP’s vote share in the 2016 assembly polls was 2.86% , more than DMK’s key allies CPI, CPM and VCK had bagged together. Party hopes to win at least five to ten seats in the upcoming assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-outcome-may-give-impetus-to-bjps-south-plans/articleshow/79573744.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Strict measures in place for Vaikunta Ekadasi in Srirangam||Trichy: The Trichy district administration has suggested to the Srirangam Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple administration to opt for token system and online booking to allow darshan for the Vaikunta Ekadasi festival scheduled from December 14. With Covid-19 still active in the region, restrictions such as physical distancing and promoting e-darshan through live streaming were suggested.District collector S Sivarasu, on Thursday, conducted a review meeting involving all the stakeholders. The temple management was instructed to print passes in different colours, each allowing darshan for a one-hour time slot. The pass system is intended to minimise the footfall of devotees. Devotees will not be allowed inside the temple after 8pm.Directions to apply online for reserving passes will be publicised by the temple management a week before the festival. Senior citizens aged above 65 years and those with comorbidities will not be allowed. The temple management has been instructed to facilitate shelters with seating arrangements outside the temple for devotees waiting for their turns. “People without face masks will not be allowed inside the temple and screening and hand sanitisation are must at the entrance. Floors and temple corridors will be frequently sanitised,” an official said.HR&CE officials said that this year the 22 day-long annual festival will conclude on January 4, 2021, with Nammalvar Motcham. The most auspicious event involving the opening of Paramapathavasal gates will be held in the early hours of December 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/strict-measures-in-place-for-vaikunta-ekadasi-in-srirangam/articleshow/79573733.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Rs 560cr plan for treatment of sewage generated in merged villages||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has drafted a detailed project report (DPR) on treatment of sewage generated in the 11 merged villages.The PMC plans to spend around Rs560 crore on building the required infrastructure like sewage treatment plants and laying of sewage pipelines, which will cater to around 10 lakh citizens.“The DPR aims to improve the sewage treatment and disposal in the merged villages. The study of old sewage lines and new lines has been done. The need assessment and subsequent improvement of existing lines has to be done,” said Jagdish Khanore, head of the PMC’s sewage department. He said that the department is planning the management of required funds for the project. — Prasad Kulkarni||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rs-560cr-plan-for-treatment-of-sewage-generated-in-merged-villages/articleshow/79572445.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Police probing job racket in NIT’s name||Trichy: National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy has lodged a police complaint after finding that a fake email ID was in circulation offering permanent jobs at the institute. NIT registrar L Cindrella lodged the complaint a couple of days ago seeking action against unknown people who created the ID promising regular jobs. Saying that it was an online job fraud, inspector D Gandhimathi of Thuvakudi police station said that the perpetrators collected registration fee ranging from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 offering training and assured jobs after showing non-teaching job openings in NIT Trichy. They had also created a bank account for the purpose which was circulated through the email ID for payment. It was when many victims who fell for the assurance and sent money contacted NIT Trichy administration for jobs that the institute authorities came to know about it and lodged the police complaint. Gandhimathi said many people have been falling victim to online job frauds during the lockdown. “We are investigating to identify the person who created the email ID and the bank account to identify the perpetrators,” she said. Thuvakudi police have booked a case under section 420 (cheating) of IPC and 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the IT act and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-probing-job-racket-in-nits-name/articleshow/79573739.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Trichy||Streets near temple lit by solar LED lights in Trichy||Trichy: Solar powered lights have been installed using Rs 60 lakh tourism department funds near the 1,000-year-old Gneeliwaneswarar temple at Thiruppaingneeli in the district. This is the first time that solar powered LED lights have been installed in the district with tourism department funds. A total 152 LED lights have been installed on 114 led poles each with a solar panel and a 12V battery. 38 LED lights with batteries have been installed inside the temple with 5KV solar panels fixed on the roof of the Annadana koodam to power them. “Since there are trees inside the temple, individual solar panels may not work. So, we decided to have a centralised system to power these lights,” said Trichy district tourism officer T Jegatheswari. “Following the directions of tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, we decided to have solar powered lights in Gneeliwaneswarar Temple and now the temple can save on the power bills,” she said. The lights will help meet the lighting needs during temple festivals and car festivals, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/streets-near-temple-lit-by-solar-led-lights-in-trichy/articleshow/79573742.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Youth held for kidnapping and raping 15-year-old girl||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city police have arrested a 20-year-old man on charges of kidnapping a minor girl and raping her. The police identified the accused as Noufal alias Appu of Velinalloor in Kollam. His arrest was recorded at Medical College police station here. The Medical College police said that charge against the accused is that he lured a 15-year-old girl and took her to Kollam, where he sexually exploited her. The case was registered after receiving a missing complaint from the parents of the girl, who resided near Kumarapuram under the station limits, two days ago. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Divya V Gopinath constituted a special team under Medical College police station house officer (SHO) to track down the girl. The investigation led them to Noufal. Medical College SHO inspector G Harilal said that the accused befriended the girl through social media and lured her into relationship. The police found out that the girl had made several calls to the phone of the accused from the phone she used for online classes. This helped the cops to find out the girl by tracking Noufal’s phone location. They were found from a resort at Munroethuruthu in Kollam. The resort authorities told the police that since the girl was wearing mask they could not realize that she was a minor. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/youth-held-for-kidnapping-and-raping-15-year-old-girl/articleshow/79561585.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Pune ranks as top smart city in Maharashtra||PUNE: The works expedited during the Unlock period helped the city secure the top position among eight contingents in the state for the implementation of various projects under the Smart Cities Mission, Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL) officials claimed. The PSCDCL officials stated that over Rs900 crore had been allocated for as many as 33 projects under the initiative. Most of the upcoming developments are for the Aundh-Baner-Balewadi area, earmarked for the Smart City initiative. Besides, some pan-city projects such as the development of junctions and smart assistance in implementing 24X7 water supply were also being undertaken, the officials said. “The works progressing at a slow pace during the lockdown period have gained momentum in the last few months. We have issued the work orders for most of the proposals. We are also setting up a mechanism to monitor the progress of every project. The PSCDCL is also conducting meetings of the board of members at regular intervals. The pan-city works are being executed in coordination with the Pune Municipal Corporation,” PSCDCL chief executive officer Sanjay Kolte said. The neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad jumped to the second position from the earlier fourth spot.  The civic activists and residents stated that securing a good rank was not enough. Vivek Velankar of the Sajag Nagrik Manch said the Smart City projects lacked consistency and should be implemented with better planning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-ranks-as-top-smart-city-in-state/articleshow/79572464.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Four more arrested in deer killing case in Telangana's Mahabubabad||HYDERABAD: Forest department officials arrested four more accused for chopping of a sambar’s hind legs near Renya thanda in Kothaguda mandal of Mahabubabad. While the officials had arrested two persons on December 2, the day the incident took place, the other four were arrested within the next 24 hours. “These six culprits are residents of the same village where the incident took place. They attacked the sambar deer in an attempt to poach the wild animal and sell its meat,” forest range officer Lakshmi Narayana said. Six poachers allegedly attacked the deer with an axe when it entered the village to drink water from a nearby lake on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-more-arrested-in-deer-killing-case-in-mahabubabad/articleshow/79573771.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||UGDP wants fish meal plants shut||Panaji: United Goans Democratic Party (UGDP) lodged a complaint with the WRD against fish meal plants at the Cuncolim industrial estate that have allegedly been dumping waste into illegally drilled borewells. It demanded that the plants be shut down and steps taken to rectify the damage. Party president Jorson Fernandes along with Cuncolim resident Gleston Fernandes said in the complaint that people were affected because of the regular stench emanating from the untreated effluents. UGDP has given 14 days to the WRD to take action and submit a report. In the complaint, the two said that while WRD permitted one bore well to be dug, around five to six additional borewells have been detected. Dumping of chemicals and waste into the borewells has have resulted in the ground water being polluted in entire Cuncolim, UGDP said. “The WRD is the custodian of our ground water and the aquifers, and the WRD is duty bound to take prompt remedial action so that health is not affected further,” the complaint said. “The earlier the WRD takes action, it would indicate that the department is not in connivance with the polluting units, or else it will be presumed that they are also part of the sinister happenings,” said Dr. Fernandes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ugdp-wants-fish-meal-plants-shut/articleshow/79574409.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||NDA institutes trophy||Pune: The National Defence Academy (NDA) has instituted a trophy in the memory of Lieutenant Ummer Fayaz, who was abducted and killed by militants, when he was on leave in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir in May 2017. The trophy would be awarded to a cadet showing overall improvement in performance. Cadet Vijay Bahadur was the first cadet from the 139th course of the academy to win the trophy. Ummer’s father, Fayaz Ahmed, said, “It’s a big honour for us. He is not with us, but his sacrifice for the country will inspire future officers of the armed forces.” Ummer’s sister Asmat said, “People here and across the country remember him as a brave soldier. We are thankful to his regiment and the NDA.” “The life and martyrdom of Lt Ummer Fayaz is indeed an inspiration for today’s youth, especially from the valley, for joining Indian armed forces. In his memory, Commandant’s motivation award for displaying overall improvement in performance has been instituted this term onwards,” an NDA authority said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nda-institutes-trophy/articleshow/79572472.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 5, 2020||Pune||Two friends die as motorcycle skids on Katraj bypass||Pune: Two friends were killed after their motorcycle skidded near a viaduct on the Katraj bypass on Thursday evening. The victims, Arman Shabbir Shaikh (20) of Bopodi and Hrishikesh Surendra Jadhav (23) of Pimple Gurav, were taken to the Sassoon General Hospital, where they were declared dead by the doctors. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Friday registered a death due to negligence offence after the post-mortem. The police said the accident occurred when Shaikh and Jadhav were riding towards Pune on the Pune-Bengaluru highway. After crossing the viaduct on the Katraj bypass, their bike skidded. They fell on the road and suffered severe injuries. “They were taken to the hospital, where the doctors declared them dead,” an officer said. The officer said Shaikh and Jadhav had gone near Nasrapur with their friends. Shaikh had borrowed his friend’s bike. “The accident occurred when they returning home,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-friends-die-as-motorcycle-skids-on-katraj-bypass/articleshow/79572466.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Footpath encroachment by vendors irks Jaipur residents||JAIPUR: It has become a common sight in the city that footpaths are being encroached by street vendors which leads to major traffic problems. And the worst thing is that their numbers are increasing day by day. According to a study conducted by the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) recently, almost 70% of the footpaths in the city are encroached. In Shanti Path Road near Birla Mandir, earlier only fruit sellers with their carts used to stand up, but now ceramic pot sellers, cloth sellers, wooden basket and racks are all sold on the footpath. In the last two months, many new street vendors are coming up. Vijay Saini, a resident of the area, said that these vendors are a traffic problem. “To purchase the flower pots, cars and two-wheelers abruptly park on the street. These vendors are mushrooming in the entire area and slowly new people are coming up,” said Saini. Similarly, in Sanganer weekly ‘haats’ have become a headache for the people. From petrol pump to Maalpura Gate in Sanganer, the number of weekly haats are increasing. Mahesh Sharma, a resident of the area, said that earlier there used to just one market, but in the last two years their number has increased. “They have encroached all the footpaths and inner colony roads. Now, everyday some kind of a haat with people selling clothes, fruits, vegetables and other items occupy the streets. Recently, a few street vendors have started sitting in front of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation’s Sanganer office as well. Look at the irony!” said Sharma. Rakesh Gupta, enforcement head at JMC said that from time to time they take up this issue of fining people and forfeiting their property. “It is a never-ending problem. We have fined many people have forfeited their property but this doesn’t stop. We will take action if such new areas are being encroached,” said Gupta. In front of Chandpol Gate, a big cemented circle has been made after the Smart city work is completed. Now on the space, street vendors have started encroaching as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footpath-encroachment-by-vendors-irks-city-residents/articleshow/79572481.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Jobless man ‘jumps to death’ in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 63-year-old was found dead outside his residence in the wee hours of Friday. Prima facie, cops suspect that the man, Soumitra Sen, ended his life by jumping off the balcony of his three-storey building on Golf Club Road near MR Bangur Hospital after he lost his job during the lockdown around seven months ago. Before that, he used to work as an accountant with a small private firm. He is survived by his wife and daughter. No suicide note was recovered so far. “His wife is a homemaker while his daughter is preparing for competitive exams. The family had no financial issue when the man worked with a top company. The family has been living in this house as tenants for decades. Neighbours told us that the man was friendly and they never realised that he had been suffering from any depression,” said an officer of Jadavpur police station. “We shall speak to the family. They were not aware when Sen had gone to the balcony,” the officer added. “We were informed around 3am from the P-block of Golf Club Road that a person had jumped off the balcony. We found that some locals had gathered there. We identified the man and contacted with his family who corroborated that Sen had jumped by himself and become unconscious. He was rushed by neighbours to Baghajatin state general hospital and then to AMRI hospital at Dhakuria, where he was declared brought dead around 3.50am. During the enquiry so far, we found no foul play. No complaint has been lodged till now,” said DC (SSD), Rashid Munir Khan. Meanwhile, three other suicides were reported from Thakurpukur, PC Boral Street in central Kolkata and Jadavpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jobless-man-jumps-to-death-in-s-kol/articleshow/79572470.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||FIR against two directors of Jaipur coaching institute, one accused says FIR false||JAIPUR: Two directors of a private coaching centre for Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) in Jaipur have been booked by Jyoti Nagar police station for allegedly duping a law aspirant over admission in NLU Jodhpur and Gandhinagar. The FIR was filed on December 1 by Harish Jagwani of Sri Ganganagar stating that his son enrolled at CLAT Prep Education coaching centre in 2019 while accusing one of the director Pranav Mishra of giving two cheques of Rs 5 lakh each on September 25 and 28 for admission in NLUs for the sake of his son’s bright career. “Pranav assured me of knowing the top persons in most of the NLUs who would get his son admission despite no provision of management seats. Thinking that he will help in making a bright career for my son I released the money to him,” said Jagwani in the FIR. The victim made another director Abhishek Chaturvedi as the accomplice in the case. Contradictory to his statement in the FIR, Jagwani told TOI, “I thought I am giving money for the NLU fees to Mishra and not for any illegal means to admit my son in NLUs.” In an official reaction to the FIR, Chaturvedi said that Mishra is no longer the director of his coaching institute Clat Prep which is falsely represented in the FIR. “Mishra was ousted in February 2020. The same has been communicated thrice through the text messages to every student till August, including the Jagwani family and cautioned them not to contact him in capacity of a director. I believe that the victim was fully aware of giving them money for unfair means which should be probed. I have been named as the co-accused, but the FIR fails to explain my role. It has been planted by our competitors to defame us,” said Chaturvedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-two-directors-of-coaching-institute-one-accused-says-fir-false/articleshow/79572486.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly’s anti-conversion case: Father of accused youth made to write & sign statement denying thrashing by cops||Bareilly: The elderly father of the Bareilly youth, first to be arrested under UP’s new anti-conversion law, was on Friday asked to write and sign a statement denying that he was harassed and beaten by the investigators. Police also recorded a video of Mohammad Rafeeq, 71, in which he was told to repeat the written statement in front of three witnesses.The rather strange move came against the backdrop of news reports in which Rafeeq alleged that he was beaten and threatened by policemen.Police, meanwhile, admitted that Rafeeq was detained for some time “as they feared for his safety”. Police said that Rafeeq was beaten by locals last year when the girl had gone missing.DIG of Bareilly range, Rajesh Pandey, said, “The father was beaten by villagers when the girl had eloped last year. We didn’t want any such situation to reoccur so he remained at a safe place under police observation. We had information through our intelligence teams and our priority was to maintain law and order as people of both the communities live in the village.”Rafeeq also said in the statement that the girl had eloped last year due to differences with her family members.“My son is innocent, he has been framed by the girl’s family. Even last time, when the girl had eloped, she had given a statement that she had eloped because of differences with her family members. My son will come out clean from this case,” he said.Additional superintendent of police (rural) Sansaar Singh maintained, “There are several eye-witnesses in this case who saw the accused threatening the girl and her father. He even attempted to spoil the girl’s relationship with her husband. We have taken action as per law.” Police remained deployed in the village near the houses of both accused and the complainant on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareillys-anti-conversion-case-father-of-accused-youth-made-to-write-sign-statement-denying-thrashing-by-cops/articleshow/79571325.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||No big bash on Rajasthan govt’s second anniversary||JAIPUR: The second anniversary celebration of the state government will be a muted one unlike last year due to the pandemic situation. The Congress government in the state completes two years on December 17 and considering the Covid-19 situation, the government is not likely to hold any public function. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal said, “The priority of the government now is to control the pandemic.” He added that, “The government has not given any thought to any kind of function coinciding with the anniversary.” With the government expecting another spike in Covid cases after the ongoing marriage season ends by the middle of December, it wants to avoid any event which will give a fillip to the spread of the virus. Party state president Govind Singh Dotasra said the other day while interacting with the media that the party has asked the workers to highlight the government’s achievements. He said the government had fulfilled about 55% of the promises within two years, which is a commendable achievement. The government’s efforts in corona management, the passing of the bills to counter the Centre’s new farm laws are also being highlighted as party’s achievements. Besides, the state government has been trying to fill up the vacancies in various government departments. Jobs was major poll promise of the government. The government had made a lot of progress in the field of higher education by opening 85 new colleges. He asked the party workers to take the achievements to the people through social media and other platforms as in the present condition, any kind of traditional celebration is uncalled for. The government may go for a social media platform and media campaign as the prevailing situation is very grim due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-big-bash-on-govts-2nd-anniv/articleshow/79572487.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||04- Sribala- DOD- Page 2 lead||Hyderabad: In a never-before performance, the BJP has not only bagged the second place in the GHMC polls leaving behind its arch rival, AIMIM, into the third place, but also cut into TRS strongholds across the city. By almost touching the 50 seats tally out of the 149 seats it was in the fray, BJP’s stupendous performance was reflected in the clean sweep of 11 divisions in LB Nagar assembly segment. The party’s show there had shown that flood-hit areas were clearly upset with the TRS and voted for the BJP. If not for the TRS’s hold on wards in Kukatpally, Serilingampally, Qutubullapur and Jubilee Hills segments, the BJP could have fared even better. In these four segments which have around 37 wards, the saffron party could not win more than three wards. The ruling party put up an impressive show in suburban areas where people of Andhra origin reside. Interestingly, these areas had voted for the TRS in the 2016 GHMC polls as well. Barring these areas, the BJP made a huge dent to TRS vote-bank. It has grown from winning just four wards in the 2016 election to having at least one ward from every assembly segment, except Kukatpally, in its kitty now. The party has also put up an impressive show in Musheerabad segment where it won five out of six wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/04-sribala-dod-page-2-lead/articleshow/79573823.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 52 lakh voters to cast votes in fourth phase||JAIPUR: The fourth and final phase of elections to posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members will be held in 21 districts on Saturday. In all, elections will be held to the posts of 908 members in 46 panchayat samitis as 52.55 lakh voters will exercise their franchise at 7,346 polling stations. State election commissioner P S Mehra said in the fourth phase, elections will be held from 7.30 am to 5 pm. He informed that 18,000 EVMs will be used and more than 36,000 officials will be deployed for election duty. Of the total voters (52.55 lakh), 27.12 lakh are male voters, 25.43 lakh female and 18 belong to the third gender. Polls will be held in Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk, and Udaipur. The counting of votes for all the four phases will be held on December 8. In all, 63.80 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the third phase of elections to the posts of panchayat samiti and zila parishad members in 21 districts. Mehra directed that Covid guidelines issued by the centre, state, medical, local administration and state election commission should be strictly followed. He said the district collectors and police officers should keep a constant watch on law and order situation on polling day. “Entry without a mask will not be allowed at the polling booths. The voters are required to sanitize their hands before entering the booths and wait for their turn by maintaining physical distance,” said Mehra. He also appealed to voters, candidates and their supporters to follow Covid norms and not to stand in a group near the polling booths. All information related to the polling stations can be obtained from the commission’s website sec.rajasthan.gov.in or through ‘Voter Assistance Service’. A voter can also get information by sending SMS on mobile number 7065051222. One has to type SEC VOTER_ (after space) epic no. The details will be received in a few seconds through SMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-52-lakh-voters-to-cast-votes-in-fourth-phase/articleshow/79572490.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC stays interview for 2018 RAS recruitment||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Friday restrained the RPSC from conducting interview for RAS and allied services recruitment 2018 beginning on December 7. The court will hear the case on December 10. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma gave the direction on a petition by Amit Sharma and others who alleged that the RPSC had included ineligible candidates in the quota of departmental candidates as they had not verified the documents of candidates before publishing the merit list for interview but only during interview. R P Saini, counsel for the petitioner, said that the inclusion of ineligible candidates under the departmental candidates’ category had resulted in the escalation of cut-off marks and the petitioners have been removed from the recruitment process. The court said, “RPSC as per aforesaid Rule 11 of the Rules of 1999 is required to scrutinize the applications, examine eligibility of candidates and then call only eligible candidates for interview. However, it is seen that candidates are being called for interview directly without scrutinizing their applications for eligibility and then before conducting actual interview, their eligibility is being seen at that stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-interview-for-2018-ras-recruitment/articleshow/79572495.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two IAS officers on deputation||JAIPUR: Two IAS officers were issued orders of central deputation on Friday. Naresh Gangwar, principal secretary, industry department and Anandhi, currently holding the post of district collector, Alwar, were placed under central government for appointment. While Gangwar will join post of joint secretary in Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, Anandhi has been given appointment as deputy director, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-ias-officers-on-deputation/articleshow/79572492.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: International gang steals money from store||KOLKATA: A three-member foreigner gang, one of them a woman, posed as Belgians and duped a branded apparel store in Phoolbagan of cash after engaging the cashier in a conversation about Bengal and India. Cops have been unable to trace the identity of the trio from CCTV footage since they all had their head covered with a cap or scarf and had large masks on their face. The detective department said a similar theft had occurred at another apparel store in a mall on Prince Anwar Shah Road but did not share any details. The theft at the departmental store in Phoolbagan occurred during the closing time around 8.30pm on Thursday when footfall is low and the cash box has maximum money. According to the police, the three accused — all of them middle age with a foreign accent — entered the store, but not all at once. Store manager Subhadeep Seal was counting the cash when two foreigners — a man and a woman — entered. Though Seal told them that transaction had been closed for the day, the duo walked straight to the display area and hurried back with a child’s dress. Both had large masks on their face with only the eyes visible. The man wore a golf hat while the woman had a dupatta around hesr head. “The woman brought a child’s dress and said she wanted to purchase it for a two-year-old. But since the dress that she chose was meant for a year-old, store staff Saraswati escorted her to pick up the right size. Meanwhile, the man walked up to me and began a conversation. He spoke about the greatness of Rabindranath Tagore and Mahatma Gandhi and kept moving around the cash counter,” said Seal. The accused claimed that they were carrying US dollars and had no idea of Indian currency. As Seal showed 31 notes of Rs 2,000, one of the them took it. As Seal asked for the cash, he claimed to have returned it. They left the store with the money by creating a confusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/intl-gang-steals-money-from-store/articleshow/79572489.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Minister writes to CS, demands SOG/high-level probe into librarian grade-3 recruitment process||JAIPUR: Women and child development minister Mamta Bhupesh wrote to the chief secretary Niranjan Kumar Arya requesting to initiate a probe by a high-level committee of the state or an investigation by SOG into alleged irregularities in Librarian Grade-3 recruitment process. In a communication to the chief secretary, a copy of which has been accessed by TOI, the minister wrote that it has been brought to her notice that the number of applications increased unexpectedly in the Librarian Grade-3 recruitment examination, 2018, after applications were sought again in connection with giving 10 per cent reservation to EWS category. “This indicates submission of fake certificates/degrees (at the time of submission of application),” she wrote. A representation was submitted to her by some applicants from Sikrai assembly constituency in Dausa. Convenor of Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh Upen Yadav said, “Initially, 44,000 applications were submitted for the Librarian Grade-3 recruitment examination, 2018. Later, in order to give 10 per cent reservation to EWS category, applications were sought again. The number of applications increased to 87,459.” “It has been observed that many applicants had submitted fake certificates at the time of submitting applications. Many applicants submitted fake certificates issued to them by private universities outside Rajasthan. It has been observed that similar degree certificates have been given more than one student,” he added. He also alleged that similar cases of ‘fake certificates’ have also been observed in Physical Training Instructors (PTI) recruitment examination 2018, LDC examination, REET examination 2016-18 and other examinations in the state. He said, he had complained to state staff selection board and had submitted a representation to Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot recently to initiate a probe into these examinations. Box Jaipur: A case has been registered with the cyber cell after some miscreants created a fake Facebook account in the name of minister Mamta Bhupesh. The miscreants demanded up to Rs 30,000 from various people through that account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-writes-to-cs-demands-sog/high-level-probe-into-librarian-grade-3-recruitment-process/articleshow/79572494.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||D B Gupta appointed as new chief information commissioner of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Governor Kalraj Mishra on Friday appointed former chief secretary D B Gupta to the post of Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) of the state. Along with them, senior journalist Narayan Bareth and Sheetal Dhankhar have been appointed as information commissioners. With this appointment, the strength of the commission has increased to five. The other members of the commission are Rajendra Prasad Barwar and Laxman Singh Rathore. The commission can have a maximum of 10 information commissioners. After his sudden removal from the post of chief secretary just two months before superannuation in July this year, Gupta has been functioning as an advisor to the chief minister. Gupta’s term will be for three years. He will continue as the CIC till December 2023. The CIC is appointed for a period of three years or 65 years of age, whichever is earlier. Gupta has become the fourth CIC of the state. His predecessors are M D Korani, T Srinivasan and Suresh Chaudhary. There was no regular CIC in the commission since the retirement of Suresh Chaudhary in December 25, 2018. Bareth is a senior journalist. He had served as BBC correspondent and had also a brief stint in academics with Haridev Joshi University of Journalism and Mass Communication. Sheetal Dhankhar is the daughter of Congress leader Randeep Dhankhar and the niece of West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. She is a social worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gupta-appointed-as-new-chief-info-commissioner/articleshow/79572503.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan reports 1,934 positive Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: A minor dip in Covid-19 cases was witnessed with the state registering 1,934 cases on Friday. However, the number of deaths continued to be 19, which has been a pattern for the past fortnight. The total number of positive cases has now gone up to 2,76,420, of which 24,318 are active cases. Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 548 fresh cases and with three new deaths the total number has reached 448. However, 656 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 9,343 active cases out of which 70% are under home isolation while some of the patients are availing daycare services,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 295 cases were reported, Kota (128), Ajmer (111) and Udaipur (95). With 19 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,389. Out of these 19 deaths, three were reported from Jaipur, two deaths each were reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Jodhpur and Udaipur and one death each was from Alwar, Bhilwara, Bundi, Churu, Dungarpur, Kota, Rajsamand and Sikar. Of the 2,389 deaths reported in the state so far, Jaipur reported 448 deaths, Jodhpur (248), Ajmer (194), Bikaner (163), Kota (142) and Bharatpur (110). In the past 11 days, the state has witnessed a spurt by reporting 208 deaths accounting for 8.7 % of the total deaths since the first fatality in April. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 445, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 246, two deaths were reported in Kota taking its toll to 141, Ajmer reported two casualties taking its toll to 192, two persons died in Dausa taking its toll to 19, with two deaths Udaipur’s fatalities rose to 102, Bharatpur 108th, Bikaner 163rd, Sikar 81st, Nagaur 78th, Jhunjhunu 40th and Jhalawar reported its 18th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-1934-positive-cases/articleshow/79576603.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jodhpur||Farmer body in support of agricultural laws, suggests amendments||JODHPUR: Amid ongoing protests against the new agriculture laws, Bhartiya Kisan Sangh has come out in support of these laws, albeit with some amendments. Welcoming the new laws as long-demanded, the sangh has proposed 4 amendments in the laws to make them farmer-friendly and address apprehensions, which have led to protests. National general secretary of the sangh, Badri Narayan Chaudhary said on Friday that the sangh has been pushing for ‘One Nation-One Market’ since long and lauded the provisioning of the same in new laws. Choudhary proposed amendments, which include ensuring there was no purchasing below MSP in mandi or out of mandi, registration of all traders on a government portal with open for access by all, payment to farmers in a stipulated time through bank guarantee and setting up of agriculture tribunals for resolution of farmers’ disputes in their hometown itself. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/farmer-body-in-support-of-agri-laws-suggests-amendments/articleshow/79572516.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 1,934 positive Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: A minor dip in Covid-19 cases was witnessed with the state registering 1,934 cases on Friday. However, the number of deaths continued to be 19, which has been a pattern for the past fortnight. The total number of positive cases has now gone up to 2,76,420, of which 24,318 are active cases. Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 548 fresh cases and with three new deaths the total number has reached 448. However, 656 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 9,343 active cases out of which 70% are under home isolation while some of the patients are availing daycare services,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 295 cases were reported, Kota (128), Ajmer (111) and Udaipur (95). With 19 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,389. Out of these 19 deaths, three were reported from Jaipur, two deaths each were reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Jodhpur and Udaipur and one death each was from Alwar, Bhilwara, Bundi, Churu, Dungarpur, Kota, Rajsamand and Sikar. Of the 2,389 deaths reported in the state so far, Jaipur reported 448 deaths, Jodhpur (248), Ajmer (194), Bikaner (163), Kota (142) and Bharatpur (110). In the past 11 days, the state has witnessed a spurt by reporting 208 deaths accounting for 8.7 % of the total deaths since the first fatality in April. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 445, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 246, two deaths were reported in Kota taking its toll to 141, Ajmer reported two casualties taking its toll to 192, two persons died in Dausa taking its toll to 19, with two deaths Udaipur’s fatalities rose to 102, Bharatpur 108th, Bikaner 163rd, Sikar 81st, Nagaur 78th, Jhunjhunu 40th and Jhalawar reported its 18th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-1934-positive-cases/articleshow/79572512.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan reports 1,934 positive Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: A minor dip in Covid-19 cases was witnessed with the state registering 1,934 cases on Friday. However, the number of deaths continued to be 19, which has been a pattern for the past fortnight. The total number of positive cases has now gone up to 2,76,420, of which 24,318 are active cases. Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 548 fresh cases and with three new deaths the total number has reached 448. However, 656 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 9,343 active cases out of which 70% are under home isolation while some of the patients are availing daycare services,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 295 cases were reported, Kota (128), Ajmer (111) and Udaipur (95). With 19 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,389. Out of these 19 deaths, three were reported from Jaipur, two deaths each were reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Jodhpur and Udaipur and one death each was from Alwar, Bhilwara, Bundi, Churu, Dungarpur, Kota, Rajsamand and Sikar. Of the 2,389 deaths reported in the state so far, Jaipur reported 448 deaths, Jodhpur (248), Ajmer (194), Bikaner (163), Kota (142) and Bharatpur (110). In the past 11 days, the state has witnessed a spurt by reporting 208 deaths accounting for 8.7 % of the total deaths since the first fatality in April. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 445, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 246, two deaths were reported in Kota taking its toll to 141, Ajmer reported two casualties taking its toll to 192, two persons died in Dausa taking its toll to 19, with two deaths Udaipur’s fatalities rose to 102, Bharatpur 108th, Bikaner 163rd, Sikar 81st, Nagaur 78th, Jhunjhunu 40th and Jhalawar reported its 18th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-1934-positive-cases/articleshow/79576604.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Unesco says Jaipur world heritage project a model for South Asian countries||Jaipur: The Unesco New Delhi office expressed that Jaipur world heritage project will be seen as model for other Indian and South Asian historic towns.The statement came after the review meeting held in Delhi recently on the Special Heritage Plan submitted by the Jaipur Municipal Corporation. The Jaipur project is the first-ever initiative in South Asian Region to protect an urban landscape covering an expansive property of 710 hectares.The document uploaded on the subject at the Unesco website says that this novel project in India is one of the largest in magnitude. “In this attempt, the city of Jaipur is endeavouring to develop mechanism and detailed technical guidelines for the world heritage city. A detailed inventory of every building and its various elements including the socio-economic relations with the local population will be prepared to understand distinctive features of each street/area. The unique setting of the densely populated city of over three million people in interspersed with over 100,000 historical structures of value,” read the document.Reacting on the encouragement, R K Vijayvargia, chief town planner, said that the entire planning of conserving the area is done in a manner to revive the old architectural glory keeping the traditions and customs intact. “The magnitude of the project is very huge. The detailed documentation and mapping of the site is in progress. The architectural control guidelines are being formulated along with listing of heritage attributes and door-to-door socio-economic data will ensure the project will turn out to be a model for the world,” said Vijayvargia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unesco-says-jaipur-world-heritage-project-a-model-for-south-asian-countries/articleshow/79572497.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Toxic air: Kanpur, Lucknow India’s most polluted cities||LUCKNOW: Air pollution levels worsened in Uttar Pradesh on Friday as cold weather remained conducive for the situation. Eight UP cities figured in the list of top 10 most polluted cities on the day, with Kanpur and Lucknow occupying the top two slots, respectively. While the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Kanpur was 455, the highest this year, Lucknow breathed its poorest air in the past three years as AQI soared to 441. Lucknow had recorded such high air pollution level on November 15, 2017, when AQI had reached 484.  Ghaziabad was the third most polluted in the country with an AQI 440, Bulandshahr (434) was fourth, Baghpat (421) fifth, Greater Noida (415) sixth, Noida (414) seventh and Meerut (403) ninth. Bihar’s capital Patna with 404 AQI was at the eighth place. All of them were in ‘severe’ air category (AQI above 400). Lucknow’s AQI has been constantly oscillating between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories in the post-monsoon season. It came down to ‘moderate’ for two brief periods inbetween because of strong winds and rains. However, as fog formation started with the onset of the winter in March, AQI catapulted by 242 points — from 199 (moderate) on November 28 to 441 (severe) on Friday. Experts have been warning that if immediate pollution control measures are not taken the air quality in these cities may touch the ‘very severe’ mark of 500 soon. Reason: generally, in Lucknow air pollution starts increasing after monsoon with the gradual drop in temperatures and peaks in January. In the past three years, AQI 436 was recorded in Lucknow on January 2, 2019, while it was 411 on January 11 in 2018. Environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta said, “At present, AQI has shot up even when the temperatures are not very low, one can easily predict what is in store in coming days.If pollution control measures are not taken, air quality will switch from severe to very severe causing respiratory issues, making situation even more tough at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toxic-air-kanpur-lucknow-indias-most-polluted-cities/articleshow/79573834.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Result historic & rejection of KCR family, describes J P Nadda||HYDERABAD: Lauding its “astounding” performance in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls, where it has made big gains, as a “moral victory”, the BJP on Friday said it has emerged as the “only alternative” to the ruling TRS in Telangana. BJP leaders hailed the party's show as it won 48 seats, against only four it had earlier in the corporation, with Union Home Minister Amit Shah thanking people for reposing faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's “politics of development.” BJP president J P Nadda described the results as “historic” for the saffron party and claimed it showed that people of the country support “only and only development agenda”. This result reflects people's unequivocal support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's development and governance model, he said. The BJP believes that it has now emerged as the main challenger to the TRS, replacing the Congress, which won only two wards. “GHMC results show rejection of Dynastic, Corrupt & Appeasement politics. I Congratulate State President @bandisajay & hardworking @BJP4Telangana Karyakartas for their spirited efforts that led to great success. Gratitude to people of Hyderabad for their faith & support,” Nadda said in a tweet. The BJP's performance has confirmed the trend that it is replacing the Congress as the main challenger to the TRS, BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said. Yadav was the BJP's in-charge for the polls. “The results are very encouraging and a moral booster for the BJP, and in a way, it is a moral victory of the party. The results reaffirms that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership and his model of good governance has acceptability across regions,” Yadav told PTI. BJP general secretary (organisation) B L Santhosh tweeted, “Thank You BHAGYANAGAR. @BJP4Telangana will give every bit & work every second to repay with gratitude the blessings you have showered. We have moved the mountain. We will replace it too.” PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nadda-result-historic-rejection-of-kcr-family/articleshow/79573828.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan reports 1,934 positive Covid-19 cases||JAIPUR: A minor dip in Covid-19 cases was witnessed with the state registering 1,934 cases on Friday. However, the number of deaths continued to be 19, which has been a pattern for the past fortnight. The total number of positive cases has now gone up to 2,76,420, of which 24,318 are active cases. Jaipur and Jodhpur continued to get maximum positive cases out of the total number of cases detected on Friday. Jaipur recorded 548 fresh cases and with three new deaths the total number has reached 448. However, 656 people got discharged from various hospitals. “Jaipur now has 9,343 active cases out of which 70% are under home isolation while some of the patients are availing daycare services,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 295 cases were reported, Kota (128), Ajmer (111) and Udaipur (95). With 19 new deaths, the total number of deaths in the state is now 2,389. Out of these 19 deaths, three were reported from Jaipur, two deaths each were reported from Ajmer, Bharatpur, Jodhpur and Udaipur and one death each was from Alwar, Bhilwara, Bundi, Churu, Dungarpur, Kota, Rajsamand and Sikar. Of the 2,389 deaths reported in the state so far, Jaipur reported 448 deaths, Jodhpur (248), Ajmer (194), Bikaner (163), Kota (142) and Bharatpur (110). In the past 11 days, the state has witnessed a spurt by reporting 208 deaths accounting for 8.7 % of the total deaths since the first fatality in April. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 445, Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 246, two deaths were reported in Kota taking its toll to 141, Ajmer reported two casualties taking its toll to 192, two persons died in Dausa taking its toll to 19, with two deaths Udaipur’s fatalities rose to 102, Bharatpur 108th, Bikaner 163rd, Sikar 81st, Nagaur 78th, Jhunjhunu 40th and Jhalawar reported its 18th fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-1934-positive-cases/articleshow/79576602.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||HC lens on smuggling of birds||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court has taken suo motu cognizance of the capture and smuggling of Indian birds like parrots and hill mynahs after a report published in a newspaper in this regard. The matter has been listed for hearing as the first case to be heard on Tuesday by the bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee. The advocate general will represent all concerned parties of the state in this matter. In the newspaper article, published on Wednesday, it had been reported how several indigenous bird species are illegally captured from parts of Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar and then smuggled to large cities like Kolkata and Delhi.  While the trade in exotic bird species, not indigenous to the country, is not banned, sale, purchase or keeping in captivity of Indian birds is illegal under the Wildlife Protection Act. On Friday, the bench observed how all care is taken while trading in exotic species as they are expensive. The poachers take no such care for wild Indian birds as not much is lost even if only 50% of them survive during transit. The court wants to hear all concerned in this matter and fix responsibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-lens-on-smuggling-of-birds/articleshow/79572514.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 5, 2020||Pune||Industrial belt of Bhosari worst-hit in PCMC areas||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The industrial areas of Bhosari, Charholi, Dighi and Bopkhel have recorded the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits so far, primarily due to workers’ movement after unlock measures. A report from the civic body’s health department said the ‘E’ zone, which these areas fall under, had 18,221 Covid-19 cases of the total 92,287 infections in the PCMC limits till December 1. This accounts for almost 20% of the total cases. The high case count is despite case reduction in these areas in the past few weeks. The drop was primarily on account of early detection due to increased testing, civic officials said, while attributing the high number of cases to the daily commute of the workers in the 20-50 years age group in the industrial area after May. The B zone (Rawet, Kiwale and Chinchwad), which had negligible cases in the early days of the pandemic, now has 14,735 cases. The report stated that C zone had 7,953 cases, the lowest across the civic limits. The C zone comprises areas like Chikhali gaothan part, Indrayaninagar, Khande Vasti, Masulkar Colony, Kharalwadi, Gandhinagar and Nehrunagar, the slum areas of which were under strict lockdown initially due to a steady rise in number of Covid cases. A civic official said the Bhosari area, which hosts multiple industries, was worst hit after the unlock measures and had maintained a steady active rate of over 1,000 cases, most among all eight zones in the PCMC limits. Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said the number of daily and active cases had reduced in Bhosari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/industrial-belt-of-bhosari-worst-hit-in-pcmc-areas/articleshow/79572518.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 5, 2020||Coimbatore||None can stop DMK’s victory: Kanimozhi||Udhagamandalam: MP Kanimozhi on Friday downplayed actor Rajinikanth’s plunge into the politics by stating indirectly that no one’s entry would affect the DMK’s chances of winning the 2021 state assembly election. Asked about the actor’s political entry, she said, “Rajinikanth is yet to start his party. I don’t want to comment on that. It is unnecessary to criticize the people who don’t come into politics.” The DMK women’s wing leader was in the Nilgiris to launch the party’s poll campaign. She said success was assured for the DMK in the assembly elections. Kanimozhi started her day by paying homage to Anna statue at Coonoor, where she addressed a public gathering. “There is lack of employment opportunities for the educated youth and the government doesn’t seem to be interested in taking any initiatives to address the issue. If the DMK comes to power, the hill district will see new professional colleges with all facilities.” On her way to Ooty from Coonoor, Kanimozhi met workers at a tea plantation at Arakadu and interacted with them. She also visited a mushroom production unit there. In Ooty, she met members of tribal communities and interacted with them. Speaking to the media, the DMK leader said the AIADMK government had failed to address the problems faced by the tea industry, estate workers and tribal people, who had been struggling for livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/none-can-stop-dmks-victory-kanimozhi/articleshow/79573826.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Not scared of ED, going to courts for 13 years now: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Asserting that he was not scared of ED or anyone else, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday slammed all the rival politicians for playing politics with the lives of the farmers to further their own interests. In a press statement, Amarinder said he and the entire Congress was solidly with the farmers and the Centre must listen to them. He hit out at all the key opposition players, right from Parkash Singh Badal, Sukhbir and Harsimrat, to Arvind Kejriwal and M L Khattar, for their flip-flops and for making a mockery of the fight of the farmers. “For 13 years, I have been going to courts because of the cases initiated against me by the Badals, I am not bothered about ED. I can go to courts and fight for another 13 years,” he said, reacting to Harsimrat Badal’s charge that he was under ED pressure. “All these Badals are alike, and they are all liars,” he said. Amarinder said in his meeting on Thursday, he had told Union home minister Amit Shah that the amendment Bills passed in Punjab assembly were the solution to breaking the deadlock over the farmers’ issue. “I urged him to get the Bills approved by the President,” he said. Taking on the Akalis over their “double-speak on the farm Laws”, Amarinder said in a live video statement on Facebook that the Badals had publicly done a U-turn on the issue. “I don’t know why Prakash Singh Badal got the Padma Bhushan in the first place,” he said. Noting that Gen Harbaksh Singh had got Padma Vibhushan for winning the 1965 war, Captain Amarinder asked “what war did Prakash Singh Badal fight or what sacrifice did he make for the community.” “Stop politicking on this…these theatrics might have worked 40 years ago but they won’t work now,” he added. “All his life Prakash Singh Badal has been claiming that he represents the interests of the farmers. Then why did his party support the central ordinances after initially opposing them, and then did an about-turn and started publicly criticising the legislations?” said Amarinder. He said as a member of the Union cabinet Harsimrat Kaur Badal had been very much a part of the meeting that passed the farm ordinances. “Is she illiterate that she can’t read,” he asked. Lashing out at Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal for twisting his statement on national security, he said it was clearly made in reference to Pakistan and as home minister of Punjab, it was his duty to apprise the Union home minister of the dangers of the prolonged agitation. “Kejriwal nu jhooth bolan di aadat hai, aur Khattar nu kuttan di,” (Kejriwal is in the habit of lying and Khattar is in the habit of thrashing), said Amarinder, taking on both, his Haryana and Delhi counterparts. Even old farmers were not spared by the Khattar government, he said. Describing Kejriwal as a slimy fellow who was in the habit of lying, Capt Amarinder asked the Delhi chief minister to first explain why his government had notified one of the central farm laws. “When other opposition-ruled states, including Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, have passed amendment bills to counter the central laws, why did he not call a session of the Delhi assembly too,” the CM asked. “Does Kejriwal not have villages around Delhi?” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-scared-of-ed-or-anyone-else-going-to-courts-because-of-badals-for-13-years-capt/articleshow/79573858.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Haveli records 4-fold surge in infections in a fortnight||PUNE: Haveli tehsil has recorded four-fold rise in active Covid-19 cases in the last fortnight, which health officials have attributed to negligence during the festive period. On November 19, the tehsil had 135 active cases, which rose to 589 on Friday, the most in all 13 tehsils of the district. “Most of the cases are being reported from densely populated villages adjacent to Pune municipal limits,” a health official said. The tehsil has recorded 16,480 cases since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Of these, as many as 15,567 patients have recovered, while 324 have succumbed to the infection-related complications. As many as 589 cases were active in the tehsil on December 4. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, said the case rise was worrisome. “Although cases are on the rise, the situation is under control. Our endeavour is to detect patients in time and provide timely medical aid to them,” he said, adding, “The violation of social distancing norms and not wearing mask is a big concern in Haveli.” The maximum cases are from Kadamkwasti, Loni Kalbhor, Wagholi, Narhe, Nanded and Manjari, which have a large number of floating population. “About 40% of the tehsil is urban and lakhs of citizens commute daily for work to Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits from these villages,” a ZP official said. The tehsil administration has already started testing of super-spreaders mainly focusing on vegetables vendors, shopkeepers and salesmen. “We have told housing society heads to report to us if they come across citizens with health issues,” said Sachin Kharat tehsil medical officer of Haveli. A health official said densely populated gram panchayats had been directed to act against violators aggressively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haveli-records-4-fold-surge-in-infections-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/79572537.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Rs 135cr parking lot in New Town soon||Kolkata: Hidco’s plan to set up a multi-storied parking lot with a capacity for 3,000 cars near Biswa Bangla Convetion Centre moved a step closer to reality with the floating of a tender to engage an agency for the construction of the project. The cost of the facility has been pegged at Rs 135 crore. To come up on the plots 117 and 118 in the CBD, the parking lot will serve the Silicon Valley and Fintech hub that are being developed in the vicinity along with mall, multiplexes, hotels and other commercial complexes. At present, New Town has parking lots at gate 1 and 3 of Eco Park next to Tata Medical Centre and behind the DCP office. According to plans, the car park will be a ramp up multi-storied structure, in which the first few floors will have commercial spaces for retail activities, showrooms, food joints and display floors while the upper floors will be used for car parking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-135cr-parking-lot-in-new-town-soon/articleshow/79572544.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 5, 2020||Goa||President to inaugurate year-long state Liberation programme||Panaji: President of India Ram Nath Kovind will be the chief guest for the inaugural function of the 60th Liberation Day, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday. Kovind will first pay tribute to the martyrs at Azad Maidan and then inaugurate the programme at Bandodkar ground at Panaji Gymkhana, Sawant told reporters. The chief minister recently conducted his first meeting with functionaries of various political parties to finalise the programme for the year-long celebrations. GFP however boycotted the meet. The programme will now be sent to the committee members for their suggestions before it is finalised, he said. “This programme is of the people and not a government programme. People should participate in the celebration,” Sawant said. The programme will begin on December 19 and conclude a year later. It will be held at the taluka-level and panchayat-level and will involve traditional occupants, students and women, among others. “We want to highlight the state’s culture, tradition and heritage during the year-long programme,” he said. The celebration will also include felicitation of all Goan freedom fighters, alive or dead. “While celebrating Liberation year, we want to make sure that people remember the history of the state for the next 100 years,” he said. There are also plans to prepare a documentary on the history of Goa and to renovate and preserve monuments of historic importance, including forts. Competitions will also be held for students. Additionally, people will be invited to participate in selection of the logo for the Liberation Day function. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat and senior MGP leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar have appreciated the programme and expressed their wish to give their suggestions, Sawant said. The state government has decided to spend Rs 100 crore for 60th Liberation year celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/president-to-inaugurate-year-long-state-liberation-programme/articleshow/79574423.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: 'Amarinder Singh non-existent CM, never visited a farm'||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, while reacting sharply to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh's comments, on Friday said it was condemnable that “a non-existent chief minister” who had never visited a farm and chosen to sit out of the 1965 war as a “glorified ADC” was judging sacrifices made by former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal. Sukhbir said Amarinder had failed as a chief minister by refusing to take up the issue of farm bills with the Centre for three months. “Now you have gone running to Delhi, after you were arm-twisted and your son faced imminent action from the Enforcement Directorate,” said the SAD president. He claimed that Amarinder was “directly responsible” for the present-day suffering of Punjab’s farmers. “He accepted the position as member of the seven-member committee which finalised the agri ordinances which have now become laws. He was responsible for not only including the provisions in his party’s election manifesto, but also amended the state APMC Act after coming to power in 2017 in line with the spirit of the agri laws,” he added. Earlier, Sukhbir had asked Amarinder “to stop his efforts to sabotage farmers’ agitation by linking it with threats to national security”. “Clearly, the Indira Gandhi spirit is alive in Amarinder,” said the former deputy CM, adding that the successive Congress governments at the Center had used “same vilification tactics against peaceful Akalis, calling them separatists, terrorists and what not”. He asked Amarinder to share intelligence inputs on the basis of which he had suddenly woken up to the threat to national security and that too “when the farmers’ battle of life and death had reached a crucial stage”. “Amarinder is clearly dancing to someone else’s tune to paint the farmers as national security risk. His so-called ‘warning’ on national security comes immediately after his suspicious meeting with a powerful Union minister,” said the SAD president. He asked if the the CM thought farmers and others in the country “could not see through his conspiratorial role”. Instead of telling the Centre to address farmers’ genuine apprehensions and grievances, the CM has chosen to warn poor farmers against continuing with their peaceful and democratic agitation, he added. “This is clearly a part of the Centre’s design to use him to weaken support for the farmers,” said Sukhbir. Alleging a pattern in Amarinder’s “anti-farmer and anti-Punjab role”, Sukhbir claimed whenever something good for Punjabis in general and the Sikhs in particular was about to happen, he immediately got restless and played the national security card. “He had done exactly the same thing to sabotage Kartarpur Sahib corridor. Fortunately, the great Guru sahiban did not allow his conspiracies to succeed. Even here, he is running against the Guru Sahiban’s message in favour of the poor and the oppressed farmers. The CM is backing the oppressor,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sukhbir-says-capts-non-existent-cm-never-visited-a-farm/articleshow/79573879.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Alarm bells for TRS, mistakes proved costly, say analysts||HYDERABAD: The outcome of the GHMC polls has set alarm bells ringing for the TRS. Five years ago, people gave a thumping majority to the pink party with 99 of 150 seats in the civic body and about 14 seats of 24 assembly seats in 2018 assembly elections. TRS, which did not have any seats in 2009 GHMC council, emerged victorious in 2016 by securing 99 seats of 150 and the mayor’s post. Now, the party is confined to only 55 seats. Political analysts said the anti-incumbency vote consolidated and went in favour of the BJP and people did not take developmental works into consideration. Analysts are surprised that though the TRS announced various sops — waiver of property tax, free drinking water, free electricity to some sectors, power bill waiver for six months for commercial establishments, and exemptions in GST to film industry — this did not neutralize people’s anger. TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao has made some major mistakes that led to the victory of BJP in 48 seats, political analyst Prof K Nageshwar said. “These mistakes include the weakening of the Congress and TDP parties in the state, which led to straight fight between TRS and BJP instead of a triangular one. Underestimating the potential loss of TRS and MIM friendship, which was highlighted by the BJP during the election campaign. He also underestimated the strength of BJP in the state. Apart from this, KCR did not take any firm stand on BJP like supporting the NDA at the Centre and criticising local leaders,” Nageshwar said, adding the TRS supremo did not gauge discontentment among the people. CPM city secretary M Srinivas said the TRS government paid heavy price for handling the flood situation badly, for lack of infrastructure in many colonies, the layout regularisation scheme, and unhappiness over performance of the sitting candidates. Lok Satta founder Jayaprakash Narayan said TRS went to the polls on positive agenda like development and unity. “They got verdict as single largest party. Due to various reasons Congress and TDP failed to perform and now the fight has been between TRS and BJP,” he said. BJP GHMC elections co-incharge K Sudhakar said GHMC election results show that the TRS days are numbered in Telangana. “GHMC election results is an endorsement of Narendra Modi’s leadership and rejection of politics of appeasement by TRS and communalisation by MIM,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alarm-bells-for-trs-mistakes-proved-costly-say-analysts/articleshow/79573869.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 5, 2020||Pune||600 staffers for medical college||Pune: The civic body has planned to recruit 600 staffers, including doctors, paramedics and teachers, for its proposed municipal medical college. The Pune Municipal Corporation wants to start the facility, Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College, from the next academic year and has completed the process of formation of the trust that includes elected members of the civic body as trustees. An expert committee had in November approved the beginning of the municipal medical college. The proposal has been sent to the national medical commission for final approval. “Details related to the staff recruitment process will be declared in due course,” additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said. The proposed medical college is coming up near Raja Bahadur Mill Road on the premises of a municipal school adjacent to Naidu hospital. Two tenders worth Rs1.6 crore for the construction have been finalized. A PMC official said classes at the medical college would start on the Kamla Nehru hospital premises till the infrastructure at the proposed institute was ready.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/600-staffers-for-medical-college/articleshow/79572560.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||HC annoyed over delay in listing case||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Friday expressed extreme displeasure with its own officials for their failure to list a matter for hearing for the past 23 years, despite an order by the then chief justice. This was a habeas corpus petition moved by one Kanchan Tanti after the state allegedly failed to hand over his newborn nephew to his sister (the child’s mother). On December 22, 1997, a bench headed by the then CJ had directed the state DGP to register a case in this matter and hand it over for investigation. The high court registry was also directed to list the matter. That didn’t happen and when the matter did appear on Friday, the bench of Chief Justice TBN Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee expressed their displeasure. “We are in a judicial system. We cannot afford stacking of files without the same being listed despite judicial orders. When matters are not listed by the office of the HC despite judicial orders, it may, at least in certain situations, be appropriate that the courts should consider initiating action for misconduct against the officers concerned,” the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-annoyed-over-delay-in-listing-case/articleshow/79572559.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: MIM, with win in 44 divisions, a kingmaker now||HYDERABAD: Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) party will play a vital role in the formation of the next GHMC council and the mayor’s post as the party won 44 wards. In 2016, the party contested 60 wards and won 44, but this election, the party contested in 51 seats and lost only seven wards. Irrespective of the mayoral candidate, the party will have a prominent presence in the GHMC standing committee. The committee is the apex body of GHMC, which takes important decisions. Like the earlier committee, the new standing committee formed will at least have six corporators from AIMIM. The committee plays a vital role in giving sanctions. Any work exceeding Rs 2 crore would have to be approved by the committee headed by the GHMC mayor. As per norms, works below Rs 2 crore can be approved by the GHMC commissioner and zonal commissioners. Former mayor Mohammed Majid Hussain, who contested from Medhipatnam ward on AIMIM ticket retained his seat, and will play a key role in the standing committee. Hussain was also looking after Bihar assembly polls, where the party won five seats. Several corporators retained their seats twice in a row, including Syed Minhajuddin, who won for the third time from Akberbagh ward and Saleem Baig from Riyasat Nagar, who won for the fourth time. Puranapul candidate Raj Mohan also won for the fourth time. The AIMIM also defeated rival Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) in Azampura ward with a margin of over 3,000 votes. The party also replaced sitting BJP corporator of Ghansi Bazar. The party was unable to retain the Jambagh ward, won by BJP. Watch GHMC results: Owaisi remains tight-lipped over alliance with TRS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-with-win-in-44-divisions-a-kingmaker-now/articleshow/79573896.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 5, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation begins clearing debris dumped on Vetal Tekdi spur||PUNE: After almost a fortnight since it issued a notice to the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) on November 19 to remove truckloads of debris the college had dumped on the Vetal Tekdi spur to construct an access road, the Pune Municipal Corporation on Friday sent its own team to do the job. Civic officials said though they had to undertake the debris removal work which was to be done by MIT, the institute will now foot the bill. MIT officials said they have applied to the PMC for permission to build the road, and if needed, they will approach the state government. The PMC’s building permissions department’s executive engineer Sudhir Kadam told TOI, “The total bill will consist of the costs that PMC will bear for the demolition of the road, including machinery and labour costs. This bill will be sent to MIT via a notice by the encroachment department once the work is completed. It is the protocol followed in case of illegal constructions. In case the institute fails to pay the amount, then the tax department will recover it from the institute as land arrears via special action.” Another PMC official from the same department said, “The excavated debris will be offloaded on space the MIT authorities suggest on their campus.” A backhoe loader was being used to dismantle the kuccha road. “The work will take days to finish. More time will be needed to dismantle the debris than it took to dump it there. We had sent multiple reminders to the institute to restore the slope to its original state, but they kept delaying it,” the civic official added. Mahesh Chopade, director of planning and development for MIT Group, told TOI on Friday, “We applied for fresh permissions on Thursday for making an internal road at the same spot. We sent the application to the PMC and we expect a positive response.” On running into problems in getting the permission considering that survey numbers 123 and 124 of Vetal Tekdi are part of the hilltop/ hillslope zone, and Vetal Tekdi itself is a natural heritage site in Pune’s draft heritage list, Chopade said, “The PMC could keep the application in abeyance, but other planning authorities in other cities have given such permission for some percentage of construction in hilltop/ hillslope areas. If the PMC cannot approve the application, we can approach the Maharashtra government to seek approval.” On not complying with the PMC’s notice on removing the debris from the Vetal hill slope, Chopade said, “As per a provision in the law, if we are aggrieved because of a notice delivered by the planning authorities, we have the right to apply for permission. If permission is denied, we can appeal to the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-begins-clearing-debris-dumped-on-vetal-tekdi-spur/articleshow/79572583.cms||Neha Madaan
December 5, 2020||Pune||PMR: Higher discharges bring active count below 11,000||PUNE: The Covid-19 recovery count stayed above 1,000 for the second straight day, higher than the new cases, in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Friday, bringing down the active infection tally to 10,923. The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded 1,113 recoveries in the last 24 hours as against 812 new cases. With this, the total discharges increased above 3.27 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the PCMC and rural areas recorded more recoveries as against the PMC areas, which reported higher daily infections than discharges in the last 24 hours. The region reported 17 deaths due to Covid-19, including seven from the PCMC limits, four from the PMC limits and six from the rural areas. The total deaths in the region have increased to 8,466 so far. On Thursday, as many as 1,052 patients were declared cured in PMR, while 970 has recovered on Wednesday. The daily testing also dropped below 10,000 in the region for the last six consecutive days, the data stated. On Friday, the region tested 8,750 samples. These included over 3,863 samples from the PMC limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/higher-discharges-bring-active-count-below-11000/articleshow/79572556.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Wedding organisers keep coronavirus at bay||LUCKNOW: After poor people residing in urban slums, the targeted Covid-19 sampling by health authorities has found very low incidence among workers providing services for organising weddings. The trend again indicates that either they have high immunity or have developed herd immunity. In the focused sampling carried out from December 1-3, about 4,540 wedding decorators, brass band members, flower vendors, caterers and others were tested through antigen and RT-PCR methods. Of these, only 13 persons have been found to be positive for novel coronavirus infection so far. The results of some RT-PCR tests are awaited. “The results show very low incidence in the group. Three persons tested positive in the antigen test and 10 in RT-PCR. We will have a full picture when the awaited results come up in a day or two,” said deputy chief medical officer Dr Milind Wardhan. “The exercise is not to stigmatise any profession or community or area, but to identify virus carriers as early as possible and prevent them from becoming super spreaders. Being involved in weddings, the 13 found positive would have come in contact with a lot of people and infected many,” he added. In the first phase of the focused sampling exercise, the health department had targeted around 12,000 urban slum dwellers. The positivity rate in this population was about 1%, far lower than 4% found in residents of middle class and posh localities of the city. The second phase is being carried out among wedding professionals and in the third, authorities will carry out drives in areas from where high number of Covid-19 cases has been reported in the past 15 days. The areas include clusters in Aliganj, Gomtinagar, Indiranagar, Chinhat and Alambagh, among others. “Though cases did rise after the festival season, so did testing. Since the positivity rate did not increase in expected proportion, we can say that there is negligible community spread as of now,” said in charge of contact tracing Dr MK Singh. Experts said that a definite conclusion on the immunity question can only be reached at after antibody tests in these groups. Presence of antibodies in large number of people would mean ‘herd immunity’ and absence of ‘high immunity’, said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wedding-organisers-keep-coronavirus-at-bay/articleshow/79573945.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Xavier’s dedicates virtual meet to Covid warriors||Kolkata: The attributes that ignite a true leader within an individual are self-development, team development, strategic thinking and acting, ethical practice, civic-mindedness and innovation, said the principal of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Kolkata, Fr Dominic Savio, at X-Orate, a virtual meet organised by the Xavier’s Management Society on Friday. “This year’s X-Orate is a tribute to the Covid warriors, the true brave hearts, who are inspiring us to be better people, even when time and circumstances are not being kind to us. Even though the interaction is on a virtual platform, it is nothing short of an intellectually stimulating and enlightening occasion,” Fr Savio added. While speaking on the topic of “Leadership Skills”, Suresh Narayanan, chairman and managing director, Nestle India Limited, the chief guest of the event, said that the leadership lessons that he has learnt is close to his heart. Narayanan added that he had gone through “trial and tabulations’ and “strife” in life and nothing was ever handed to him and that nothing came to him accidentally. Narayanan said he is a firm believer of transparency and simplicity. “The 10 C’s are the main principles of success and the most important of them are clarity, competence, credibility, creativity and compassion,” he added. He said that to him, educational qualities and degrees are like a boarding pass into an aircraft. “What you see is what you get — that is credibility. Credibility is something that you need to build in the early stages of your career,” Narayanan explained. His advice for Generation-Z was, “Don’t envy success, you do not know the road the other one is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/xaviers-dedicates-virtual-meet-to-covid-warriors/articleshow/79572567.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Kundli’s tryst with farmers’ destiny||CHANDIGARH: For a traveller from Punjab, Kundli had so far been a non-descript town on way to the national capital, after a five-minute drive from the famous dhabas in Murthal. Many would have not even noticed the rural-urban (rurban) locality in Haryana’s Sonipat district, but all this has changed over the past week on the Kundli-Singhu border. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, and some from Haryana, have been camping on a 7km stretch of the National Highway 44, which runs through the town’s periphery and connects Punjab, north Haryana and Chandigarh to Delhi, since November 27. For the laidback town in Sonipat’s Rai tehsil, this has meant a carnival-like chaos of tractor-trolleys, tents, makeshift kitchens, medical camps, impromptu poetry recitations and music performances, and a main stage from where organisers deliver speeches and volunteers host film screenings. There is a separate tented area for prayers too. The highway itself is the venue and reaching the centre requires one to drive five kilometres through a maze of vehicles parked haphazardly on either side of the road. The last bit is nearly inaccessible because of the rush. While Haryana Police divert Dehi-bound traffic on to the Eastern Peripheral Expressway a little away from near Rai Sports University, any vehicle which crosses the police barricading is greeted by joyful young men handing out mineral water bottles and fruits. Community kitchens to cook langar are common once the tractor-trailers, nearly all turned into makeshift dorms, begin. “It is a town of its own,” says Gurdeep, an activist of Ambedkar Students’ Association from Chandigarh while giving a tour of the venue. Around 5pm, while a group of farmers from Haryana smoke a hookah in front of INLD’s Kundli border office, members of Delhi-based NGO Shaheed Bhagat Singh Youth Brigade (SBYB) sit cross-legged on the road and sing a song dedicated to farmers from a loudspeaker. Shehnaz Hindustani, a poet and a member of SBYB, says he and the members of his group are not farmers and live in Delhi, but had come to the protest because they wanted to stand by farmers. “They have made so many sacrifices to feed the nation and this is the least we could do,” he says. After the performance, Shehnaz and his team get up and thank a group of farm leaders for “standing up to the Centre and showing the way to other farmers”. Medical camps set up by charitable organisations are nearly as common as community kitchens. Apart from Khalsa Aid, medical camps have been set up by United Sikhs, Ludhiana-based Gurmat Gian Missionary College, International Punjabi Foundation, a team from Derabassi sent by Sethi Dhaba in Zirakpur, and more. At some camps, medical teams are also checking the blood pressure of protesters. Gurmat Gian Missionary College principal Gurbanchan Singh says they are also providing blankets and bedding to the protesters.“We will be sending more supplies as many protesters are aged,” he adds. Even flags hoisted across the protest are of various hues — white, green, saffron, yellow, red, and the Tricolour too. Punjabi music, especially the recently released bass-heavy protest songs on farm laws, blare on music systems from tractors and SUVs all day. Gurjeet Singh, who had come to the protest from Sangrur and was driving a tractor playing one such song, says the songs are not provocative. “Our livelihoods are at stake. The Centre is the provocateur, not the songs,” he says. The protest venue has been divided into two parts. The last sit-in, where a tent has been pitched for reciting Sikh prayers, comes after an area where CRPF and police personnel have been deployed. The group was going to Burari grounds, but decided to stop on the Haryana side only. The main stage turns into a source of entertainment by evening. On Thursday, National Award-winning director Rajeev Kumar screened his movie SIRI. “I wanted to show the protesters, through the movie, that the problem is not just in the ruling party, but government policies. As long as we are signatories to the World Trade Agreement, laws will stay. They should understand it is the corporate world-friendly policies which they need to oppose. I am happy people understand this,” he says. Muslims from Malerkotla pitch in A group of Muslims from Malerkotla have also set up a community kitchen at the Singhu border protest site. Advocate Mubeen Farooqi, president of Muslim Federation of Punjab, said he had promised help to farmers and was now on ground zero because of that. “Malerkotla’s sweetend rice is famous and that is the dish for today evening,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kundlis-tryst-with-farmers-destiny/articleshow/79574741.cms||Siddarth Banerjee
December 5, 2020||Pune||Meet the Eka Lagnachi Pudhchi Gosht cast before watching them on stage||PUNE: Theatre spaces reopened in the city and the rest of Maharashtra on November 5 but commercial performances have been reticent about getting back on stage due to the precarious financial situation and the reduced seating capacity. All of that is expected to change on December 12. The play Eka Lagnachi Pudhchi Gosht, starring theatre veteran Prashant Damle and Kavita Lad, will be staged at three theatres across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad on December 12 and 13, in what has been billed to be the first commercial theatre performance post-lockdown. Performances have been scheduled over the weekend at Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha in Kothrud, Balgandharva Rangmandir and Ramkrishna More Auditorium at Chinchwad. To promote the play, and as a fillip to the Marathi commercial theatre industry, Damle and Lad are pulling out all stops. “As a promotional activity, Kavita and I are going to sit behind the counter and sell tickets at all three theatres on December 6, for an hour each. We had already done 385 shows of the play before we had to stop due to the pandemic. There has been a gap of nine months now and we are back at the rehearsal phase. And we are taking all precautions among the cast and crew, as well as for the audience. Of course the finances will be an issue due to limited capacity, but let us see how all of this turns out,” Damle told TOI. Meanwhile, smaller theatre spaces, which are often sites for experimental and progressive theatre, are gathering steam. Pradeep Vaidya’s experimental, black box theatre reopened its doors last month to critical acclaim. Sudarshan Rangmanch at Shaniwar Peth has already played host to three shows of Atul Pethe’s Shabdanchi Rojnishi, a multilayered, dystopian drama about language and culture. Two more shows are scheduled on December 26 and 27, with Pethe enthused about the response he has received. “The play is about vanishing languages and culture, centred on the highest level of a 321-storeyed building, where ancient languages and culture are studied and preserved. But the building has been hollowed out by termites. I play a man trying to preserve the floor and keep languages and texts from disappearing forever. Much like what we want after the pandemic, the play is about love and everything good that remains after such trying times. The response from the audience has been fantastic. More than 65 people watched the play over three days in November at Sudarshan Rangmanch, and they responded to the play via social media because they couldn’t meet us backstage,” Pethe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/meet-the-eka-lagnachi-pudhchi-gosht-cast-before-watching-them-on-stage/articleshow/79572571.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 5, 2020||Pune||Kamala Nehru hosp eyes status upgrade||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to upgrade its Kamala Nehru Hospital as the proposed municipal medical college and use the facility until the campus of the institute gets ready at Naidu Hospital. The upgrade will include setting up a new dedicated blood bank, intensive care units and training facilities. The civic body will set up classrooms for the medical college at the PMC-run Sanas High School, near Kamala Nehru Hospital. Around Rs35 crore will be spent on the upgrade programme. “The PMC is building the college on the Naidu Hospital campus. It is getting ready. So, a makeshift arrangement has to be made,” said a senior civic official. The official added that the civic body planned to start the college from the next academic year. The basic requirement to start the medical college is a 300-bed hospital, which can be provided at Kamala Nehru Hospital. “Once the college campus is ready at Naidu Hospital, the educational facilities will be shifted there gradually,” said the official. The PMC has completed the process of trust formation for the Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College, which includes elected members of the civic body. The proposal has been sent for final approval to the National Medical Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kamala-nehru-hosp-eyes-status-upgrade/articleshow/79572563.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Prakash Javadekar to Delhi govt: Act on local sources of pollution||NEW DELHI: Asking Delhi government to pull up its socks and act against local sources of air pollution, environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday said the incidents of stubble-burning have come to an end but air quality in the capital continues to remain in ‘very poor’ category. Referring to a number of complaints received by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Javadekar appealed to the city government to quickly address complaints relating to waste-burning, construction and demolition dust, unpaved roads and illegal industrial activities including tyre pyrolysis. As part of its monitoring exercise, CPCB has deployed 50 dedicated teams for feedback from the field from October 15. Feedback from these teams is being forwarded through Samer App to respective agencies in Delhi and other NCR cities for quick redressal of complaints. It was, however, noted by the Board that majority of the complaints relating to air pollution activities could not be addressed. In this backdrop, Javadekar said CPCB has issued a notice to Delhi government to take strict and swift action on the complaints forwarded to it about activities causing pollution. “Delhi government and all agencies concerned (in the NCR) should swing into action as stubble-burning has stopped now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/javadekar-to-delhi-govt-act-on-local-sources-of-pollution/articleshow/79573941.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Experts seek more trials of vaccines||Pune: Health experts and representatives of medical associations have expressed reservations about emergency authorizations for vaccines in trials and are of the view that the recipients’ safety could not be compromised with. World Health Organisation chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan told TOI on Friday that while Emergency Use Listing (EUL) was issued after an assessment of submitted information that a vaccine’s quality, safety and performance data “are acceptable and that benefits outweigh the risks”, the nod was given in the context of a public health emergency. Dr Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India, said, “If the data on efficacy, safety and duration of protection are submitted to the regulators for a thorough review, confidence in the approvals will be high. If it appears that the approvals have been rushed through, public confidence will be low.” Vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang said peer review and scientific publications “have their faults”, but expert scrutiny by scientists and regulators “are necessary to inform and validate science and ensure safety, quality and efficacy of vaccines”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-seek-more-trials-of-vaccines/articleshow/79572574.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-wary Kolkata laps up Swasthya Sathi scheme||KOLKATA: Manas Ghosh, a retired school teacher at a state government-aided primary school and a resident of Tollygunge, had to stand in a serpentine queue for over two hours to submit his documents for enrolment in the state’s medical insurance scheme, Swasthya Sathi, at a makeshift camp at Ashoknagar Park organized by Kolkata Municipal Corporation on Thursday. Ghosh, who does not belong to the BPL category, is anxious to be on the list should he fall ill. The pandemic and rising health costs had left him worried when the chief minister announced the extension of the scheme to all citizens. Like Ghosh, lakhs of citizens are waiting to enrol themselves for the scheme that will enable the insurance holder and his family to avail of treatment up to Rs 5 lakh. A KMC official said the civic body on Thursday received 1,500 applications for Swasthya Sathi at the camp at Ashoknagar Park. Of this, around 500 applicants were from the lower middle income households that can’t afford expensive treatment. According to Tapan Dasgupta, the borough ward coordinator (Borough X), civic officials had already received over 4,000 applications from four wards in the borough. “Of these applicants, a good number belongs to lower middle class or middle class. The health insurance scheme has become extremely popular among residents of Azadgarh, Netajinagar, Baghajatin, Pallisree among others,” Dasgupta said. He has arranged for a printer for delivering insurance cards on the spot. Ratan Malakar, the coordinator of Borough IX, said Swasthya Sathi was much in demand from residents of Harish Mukherjee Road, Bhowanipore and Kidderpore areas as well. “We have received over 1,000 applications on a single day,” he said. Localities in north Kolkata also saw queues for enrolment. For Bina De, a resident of Hari Ghosh Street who belongs to a middle-income family, Swasthya Sathi meant a big relief from the worries of managing finances for treatment, especially during the pandemic days. For the septuagenarian, who needed to be physically present at the camp, walking till the camp was tough. There has been huge response among residents of Salt Lake to apply for the Swastha Sathi scheme as the government’s ‘Duare Sarkar’ outreach camps are being held in different wards on different days across the 41 wards of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation. The first camp was held for Ward 41 in Salt Lake. Though there are nine schemes included in the outreach camps, most residents are seeking information about Swasthya Sathi, followed by the Khadya Sathi scheme. “People are primarily interested in the health insurance scheme. Many don’t know how to fill up the form. So we are assisting them,” said Somen Dutta, a resident of Kashi Bose Lane area. Ward coordinators have also been asked to go the extra mile to help residents in the enrolment. “While we were campaigning, some senior citizens approached us and sought help. Some of them stayed alone while some had nobody to accompany them. They needed a little more accessibility. We decided to hire some rickshaws and accompanied them to camps. We took telephone numbers of each of the elderly persons and escorted them to the camp,” said Faiz Ahmed Khan, coordinator of Ward 66 where 2,000 application forms have been submitted from Tiljala-Topsia. Bapi Ghosh, councillor of Ward 7, arranged autos to carry elderly persons to the camps and back. (Inputs from Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-wary-city-laps-up-swasthya-sathi-scheme/articleshow/79572581.cms||Saikat Ray
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Blow to BJP as party loses MLC polls in Pune, Nagpur||PUNE/NAGPUR/MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) won four of the six seats in the MLC (member of legislative council) elections on Friday. The BJP was defeated in three of the four seats. An independent candidate won the poll in Amravati while, on Thursday, the BJP won the Dhule-Nandurbar seat. The BJP’s losses in its traditional strongholds — Pune and Nagpur graduates’ constituencies — were particularly stunning. While the party has lost the Pune seat only once in the past, it has never lost the Nagpur seat. Senior BJP leaders had campaigned hard to ensure that their candidate, Sangram Deshmukh, held on to the Pune seat, which was represented by state party president Chandrakant Patil for the last two terms. NCP candidate Arun Lad, who was the joint nominee of the MVA, defeated Deshmukh by an impressive margin of around 50,000 votes to win the seat. BJP was banking on independent candidate Shrimant Kokate, who had sought NCP nomination, to make a dent in the MVA votes. But Kokate got only 6,572 votes. The Pune teacher’s constituency was claimed by Jayant Aasgaonkar of the Congress who defeated independent candidate and sitting MLC Dattatreya Sawant. Aasgaonkar got 25,985 votes and Sawant 15,357. BJP nominee Jitendra Pawar was third with 7,294 votes. Abhijit Wanjari of the Congress created history by winning the Nagpur division graduates’ constituency election for the first time since the formation of Maharashtra. He defeated Sandeep Joshi of the BJP by 18,910 votes, polling 61,701 votes against Joshi’s 42,791. Over the last 58 years, the seat had been held by the BJP and its predecessor, the Jan Sangh. Ramjeevan Choudhary of the Jan Sangh was elected from there in 1971, followed by Devendra Fadnavis’ father Gangadharrao, who represented the seat for two terms. Gadkari later represented the constituency for 25 years and after his election to the Lok Sabha in 2014, he was replaced by Anil Sole, a former mayor of Nagpur. For the 2020 elections, Sole was denied nomination and replaced by Sandeep Joshi, a trusted aide of Fadnavis. The loss is a major setback for Gadkari and Fadnavis, who had thrown their weight behind Joshi. On the other hand, not many Congress leaders had supported Wanjari. Help from the NCP and Shiv Sena too was negligible. MVA candidate Satish Chavan won the Marathwada graduates’ constituency election by a record 57,895 votes, defeating BJP’s Shirish Boralkar. Chavan has won the seat for the third successive time. In the Amravati teachers’ constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik dethroned sitting MLC Shrikant Deshpande of the Sena by a handsome margin of 3,242 votes. The BJP nominee did not even figure among the top four candidates. The result of the Dhule-Nandurbar legislative council byelection was declared earlier, on Thursday evening. BJP candidate Amrish Patel won the seat with 332 votes against Congress’ Abhijeet Patil, who managed to get only 98 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/blow-to-bjp-as-party-loses-mlc-polls-in-pune-nagpur/articleshow/79575750.cms||Satyajit Joshi
December 5, 2020||Pune||Blow to BJP as party loses MLC polls in Pune, Nagpur||PUNE/NAGPUR/MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) won four of the six seats in the MLC (member of legislative council) elections on Friday. The BJP was defeated in three of the four seats. An independent candidate won the poll in Amravati while, on Thursday, the BJP won the Dhule-Nandurbar seat. The BJP’s losses in its traditional strongholds — Pune and Nagpur graduates’ constituencies — were particularly stunning. While the party has lost the Pune seat only once in the past, it has never lost the Nagpur seat. Senior BJP leaders had campaigned hard to ensure that their candidate, Sangram Deshmukh, held on to the Pune seat, which was represented by state party president Chandrakant Patil for the last two terms. NCP candidate Arun Lad, who was the joint nominee of the MVA, defeated Deshmukh by an impressive margin of around 50,000 votes to win the seat. BJP was banking on independent candidate Shrimant Kokate, who had sought NCP nomination, to make a dent in the MVA votes. But Kokate got only 6,572 votes. The Pune teacher’s constituency was claimed by Jayant Aasgaonkar of the Congress who defeated independent candidate and sitting MLC Dattatreya Sawant. Aasgaonkar got 25,985 votes and Sawant 15,357. BJP nominee Jitendra Pawar was third with 7,294 votes. Abhijit Wanjari of the Congress created history by winning the Nagpur division graduates’ constituency election for the first time since the formation of Maharashtra. He defeated Sandeep Joshi of the BJP by 18,910 votes, polling 61,701 votes against Joshi’s 42,791. Over the last 58 years, the seat had been held by the BJP and its predecessor, the Jan Sangh. Ramjeevan Choudhary of the Jan Sangh was elected from there in 1971, followed by Devendra Fadnavis’ father Gangadharrao, who represented the seat for two terms. Gadkari later represented the constituency for 25 years and after his election to the Lok Sabha in 2014, he was replaced by Anil Sole, a former mayor of Nagpur. For the 2020 elections, Sole was denied nomination and replaced by Sandeep Joshi, a trusted aide of Fadnavis. The loss is a major setback for Gadkari and Fadnavis, who had thrown their weight behind Joshi. On the other hand, not many Congress leaders had supported Wanjari. Help from the NCP and Shiv Sena too was negligible. MVA candidate Satish Chavan won the Marathwada graduates’ constituency election by a record 57,895 votes, defeating BJP’s Shirish Boralkar. Chavan has won the seat for the third successive time. In the Amravati teachers’ constituency, independent candidate Kiran Sarnaik dethroned sitting MLC Shrikant Deshpande of the Sena by a handsome margin of 3,242 votes. The BJP nominee did not even figure among the top four candidates. The result of the Dhule-Nandurbar legislative council byelection was declared earlier, on Thursday evening. BJP candidate Amrish Patel won the seat with 332 votes against Congress’ Abhijeet Patil, who managed to get only 98 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/blow-to-bjp-as-party-loses-mlc-polls-in-pune-nagpur/articleshow/79572596.cms||Satyajit Joshi
December 5, 2020||Pune||Salary eludes employees at Pimpri jumbo units||PUNE: Healthcare workers in the Pimpri Covid-19 jumbo unit at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and at the College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) jumbo unit are awaiting salaries for the past few months. According to officials from MedBros, the agency which looks after the operations at both the units, the dues are pending from the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). According to a CoEP jumbo unit official, they have an active staff of around 550 healthcare workers and they have been paid partially due to unavailability of funds. The state government GR on September 2 has been revised and private junior and senior resident doctors pursuing PG courses are eligible for a monthly stipend of Rs10,000 from May 1, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/salary-eludes-employees-at-jumbo-units/articleshow/79572579.cms||Piyush Bhusari
December 5, 2020||Goa||Karnataka youth held for online fraud||PANAJI: Agasaim police arrested Kedar Hawal, 20, a native of Karnataka, for allegedly creating a fake account and demanding money from people. Police said the accused sourced a girl’s photographs from her Instagram account and created a Facebook account and sent friend requests. Police said the girl did not have a Facebook account. Agasaim PI Vijay Rane said Hawal then started chatting with the contacts and demanded money to purchase mobile phones and other items. The victims consequently began sending money as and when he demanded. Rane said although victims had also tried meeting the accused, as he posed as a girl, he had always managed to evade them. The incident came to light when a victim known to the girl’s family approached her mother informing her that her daughter had demanded money from him on social media. When the girl denied it, her mother lodged a police complaint against an unidentified person. Rane said it took them 25 days to track Hawal before he was arrested. Agasaim police said a Curca resident was cheated to the tune of Rs 7,600. Rane said they have written to their counterparts in Karnataka and Maharashtra to take custody of the accused if similar cases are registered in their respective jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/karnataka-youth-held-for-online-fraud/articleshow/79574427.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Chavan wins seat for a third time||Aurangabad: Maha Vikas Aghadi candidate Satish Chavan won the Marathwada Graduates’ Constituency elections by a record margin of 57,895 votes to become MLC for the third time in a row. The constituency had a total of 3,73,166 registered voters, of which, a record 2,41,908 votes were polled. Chavan, who belongs to NCP bagged 1,16,638 votes, while BJP’s Shirish Boralkar could get 58, 743 votes to end up second. In all, 35 candidates contested the elections this year. “Our winning margin is equal to the total number of votes garnered by the BJP candidate. It only shows that the graduates from the region wanted development and have rejected their policy of hatred and discrimination,” a senior NCP leader said. This was also the second straight fight between Chavan and Boralkar. During the previous graduates’ constituency elections, Chavan had won against Boralkar with a margin of over 15,000. However, this time Congress, Shiv Sena and even left parties putting their weight behind Chavan, leading to a higher margin. Even the internal defections over the choice of candidate for the elections, flip flops on the names of candidates clubbed with former minister Jaisinghrao Gaikwad resigning from BJP and joining MVA camp, dented Boralkar’s prospect to a great extent. Starting from the first round, Chavan got lead and it continued till the fifth round, when he was declared as winner. The final counting figures have revealed that over 23,000 votes were invalid, out of which several of them were found written with slogans for ‘Maratha Reservation’, some had abuses written on them, even names of the voters, some signs and even their phone numbers. Political analysts pointed out the Chavan himself heads an education society having about 150 educational institutes, while his supporters from within and outside the party too head a series of educational institutes from across the region, giving him an edge against his rival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/chavan-wins-seat-for-a-third-time/articleshow/79570501.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh to deliver essentials to over 1.5 crore beneficiaries||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state government is preparing to deliver essential commodities under the public distribution system (PDS) as a New Year’s gift to over 1.5 crore beneficiaries. Plans are afoot to have the commodities delivered to their homes using mobile dispensing units (MDU). Arrangements for the exercise began in November with the government inviting applications for owning and driving mini-trucks which will deliver the commodities. Over one lakh applications were received for a target of 9,260 vehicles required for MDUs. The selection of eligible candidates was held on Friday across the state and a list of final candidates will announced on December 5. The applications were received by concerned agencies for welfare of backward classes, SCs, STs, economic backward classes and minorities among others. BC Welfare Corproration executive director for Srikakulam district, G Raja Rao, said that had conducted interviews for selection of persons from poor backgrounds who were unemployed and held driving licenses. “5,249 people from all designated categories including 3,661 from backward classes applied for 530 vehicles allotted for our district,” Raja Rao told TOI. The government ascertained the cost of each vehicle at Rs 5.81 lakh of which it will bear 60% as subsidy while 30% will be provided through a bank loan. The beneficiary’s contribution will be 10% of vehicle cost, a little less than Rs 60,000. The bank loan should be paid within a six-year period. According to a senior civil supplies officer for Visakhapatnam district, the main objective of MDUs is to check fraudulent practices within PDS like diversion of commodities while boosting provision of employment opportunities to youth, door-step service to beneficiaries. Civil supplies department state commissioner Kona Sasidhar told TOI that January 1, 2021 is the tentative date for launching MDUs. “Our department’s role is to hire vehicles arranged by various welfare corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-to-deliver-essentials-to-over-1-5-crore-beneficiaries/articleshow/79570893.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Tourism sector sees increase in footfall, better hotel occupancy||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourist footfalls in Visakhapatnam district have improved since last month based on revenue and occupancy ratios of hotel rooms. According to Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) officials, between 60 and 70% of the 283 hotel rooms owned by the corporation were occupied by November as Rs 1.7 crore was generated via tourism as against its target of Rs 4 crore to Rs 5 crore for the month. The occupancy rate in November was better than that of October when the corporation only registered a 30% occupancy rate. The average occupancy rate for October 2019 stood at around 80%. For instance, footfalls at the Borra Caves in October last year was a little over one lakh but fell to just 17,000 this year. In November, the number rose to around 40,000. “We achieved nearly 80-90% occupancy for our hotel rooms from Friday to Sunday and around 50% on other days. Hopefully, we will reach 100% occupancy this December,” said Visakhapatnam APTDC reservation manager M Krishna Mohan. He said tourists from states like West Bengal, Odisha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh have started visting the city. “We have received no tourists with Covid-19 history at our rooms. This has added to our advantage and has given mileage to our hospitality. We thoroughly check every tourist as per Covid-19 guidelines,” Krishna Mohan told TOI. The Railways too have resumed as many as 55 train services to Visakhapatnam from different parts of the country. “This will come as good news to the state’s tourism sector, particularly Visakhapatnam,” said a railway official with the Waltair division of East Coast Railway. “We are running more than 20 originating trains from Visakhapatnam and more than 30 trains pass through Visakhapatnam effective from December 1. All these trains were special trains,” the railway officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tourism-sector-sees-increase-in-footfall-better-hotel-occupancy/articleshow/79570908.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 5, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Wholesale veggies prices drop, but retail prices almost double||CHENNAI: The prices of vegetables at the Koyambedu wholesale market dropped by at least Rs 10 a kg on Friday as continuous rain prevented retail traders from visiting. But, this decrease did not reflect in neighbourhood shops where vegetables continued to be dearer for consumers. The wholesale rates are, however, likely to shoot up on Saturday in the event of a reduction in rainfall and Sunday being a closed holiday. According to market sources, the prices of vegetables such as cabbage and chow-chow, which cost Rs 10 a kg and Rs 12 a kg just two days ago, fell to Rs 5 a kg and Rs 7 a kg on Friday. Other vegetables such as drumstick (moringa) were available for just Rs 15 a kg. S Chandran, secretary of the Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said the rates had started dropping in the past couple of days since the market was receiving hardly 50% of its usual customers. “Incessant rain was discouraging retail traders from visiting the market. With the number of customers dipping, it had an adverse impact on the prices which nosedived,” he said. The number of trucks ferrying vegetables to Koyambedu also reduced by at least 100 to just 300 on Thursday. The wholesale prices may go up on Saturday if the rain subsides and there is an increase in demand because Sunday is a holiday for the wholesale market. On the flip side, the prices in retail shops were almost double the wholesale rates. A kilogram of onion, which was available for Rs 45 at Koyambedu, was retailing at Rs 60 and Rs 70 at shops in areas such as Adyar and Medavakkam in south Chennai. While a kilogram of potato was marketed for anywhere between Rs 30 and Rs 35 at the Koyambedu wholesale market, it went up to Rs 65 in suburbs such as Medavakkam. Cabbage was sold at Rs 30 per kg in areas on the city’s fringes. However, retailers had enough stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wholesale-veggies-prices-drop-but-retail-prices-almost-double/articleshow/79572628.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Infra hurdles hit revival of KGMU organ donation unit||Lucknow: If the suspended deceased organ donation programme at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) is revived, the centre can facilitate around 100 cadaveric multi-organ donations (CMOD), saving at least 125 lives every year. This will also give a boost to the state government’s move to push organ donation and transplantation through an umbrella body, State Organ & Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO), which will come up at SGPGI. Currently, KGMU is the only organ generator in the state. The programme started at KGMU in 2014 but got stuck under the burden of permissions and internal roadblocks. It could officially take off only in 2016-2017. Since then, KGMU’s gastro surgery department, which heads the programme, has conducted around 30 organ donations of which 26 were of kidney and liver. Kidneys were sent to SGPGI and livers to a Delhi hospital for transplantation. A few liver transplants were also conducted at KGMU last year. However, the programme had to be suspended. “The deceased organ donation programme is most certainly on our priority list after Covid crisis. We are planning for liver, kidney, cardiac and lung transplant in near future. Cornea and bone marrow transplant is currently on,” said KGMU vice-chancellor Lt Gen (retd) Dr Bipin Puri. “We are facing roadblocks in terms of infrastructure, training manpower, certification and permissions from state transplant authority,” he added. KGMU’s trauma centre, which is the only source of deceased organ donations, on an average records 1-2 brain dead patients every day. Experts at KGMU said while the consent rate for organ donations stands at 5%, it is not always that the nod gets converted into donation. A number of times, not all organs are found to be fit for transplant. A patient is declared brain dead after the confirmatory ‘Apnea test’ comes positive twice, six hours apart. Counsellors then try to convince the family of the deceased for donation but many are reluctant due to religious beliefs. A brain dead patient is not taken off the ventilator as it leads to cardiac arrest and stops blood flow in the body which turn organs unfit for use. While Covid-19 became the biggest deterrent in organ donations and transplants in 2020, revival of the deceased donor and transplant programme at KGMU can save more lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/infra-hurdles-hit-revival-of-kgmu-organ-donation-unit/articleshow/79573956.cms||Yusra Husain
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Rs 950 RT-PCR cap: Hospital body to write to govt for help||Kolkata: A day after the charge for RT-PCR tests was capped at Rs 950, the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) decided to write to the state government seeking help to procure re-agents at a lower price which will allow them to keep testing viable at the reduced rate. It will ask the government to help private hospitals negotiate with vendors who supply re-agents for RT-PCR to state hospitals at cheaper rates, according to AHEI president Rupak Barua. This is the third time since June that the RT-PCR ceiling has been revised. While initially the cost of an RT-PCR test was Rs 4,500, it was capped for the first time on June 26 at Rs 2,250. Later, on September 28, a cap of Rs 1,201 was announced but it was withdrawn within hours. On October 12, the cap was revised to Rs 1,500. “We will write to the state this week to help us get in touch with their vendors. Unless we can procure re-agents at a cheaper price, it will be difficult for most private establishments to continue RT-PCR tests,” said Barua, who is also the CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He added that the re-agent cost for a test at AMRI is Rs 650. The price of rapid tests TRUNAT and CBNAAT have been capped at Rs 1,200 and Rs 2,400, respectively. Some hospitals said the re-agents are procured at variable rates from vendors. This has made it possible for some to bring down the charge while others were still finding it difficult. “Our re-agent procurement cost has been reduced to almost a third of what it was in June. So, the new ceiling is not a constraint for us, provided the number of tests don’t slide,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-950-rt-pcr-cap-hospital-body-to-write-to-govt-for-help/articleshow/79572606.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Man killed by leopard in Solapur dist||Aurangabad: A 30-year-old farmer was mauled to death by a leopard in Solapur district on Thursday night, leading to speculation by forest officials that it may be the same beast that killed three people and injured four in Ashti taluka of Beed district recently.“The nature of attacks is similar and although the latest incident happened in another district, the spot is close to Ashti. The same big cat, which has remained elusive, might be involved in this,” divisional forest officer Madhukar Telang told TOI on Friday. The official said that the farmer, Kalyan Funde, had gone to tend the crop in his farm at the Fundewadi village, which is just across the Beed border.“The leopard’s act of selectively targeting human beings is a cause of concern. The forest department has installed 40 sensor cameras besides 11 cages at different spots in Ashti,” he said. “So far these cameras have caught just one partial image of a leopard,” said Telang, who visited Fundewad soon after receiving information about the fatal attack.The official said that different teams have been deployed to look for the pug marks of the leopard in the bordering area of Solapur district and see if they match with the ones found in Beed district. Between November 21 and 30, three people, including a 10-year-old boy, were killed in leopard attack while four were injuried in Ashti taluka. On November 15, a man and his son were killed by a leopard in Aurangabad rural.Forest officials said that the leopard has the tendency to continuously move. “Pug marks have been found in a 7km radius, indicating that the beast has been travelling about 20km daily,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-killed-by-leopard-in-solapur-dist/articleshow/79570487.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 5, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh govt forms mandal-level teams for effective administration of vaccine||AMARAVATI: Gearing up the government machinery for smooth administration of the Covid-19 vaccine once available, the government has constituted mandal-level task forces. Field officers have been directed to prepare blueprints for vaccine administration as per the protocols issued by the Centre. The government, which had already appointed a state-level committee and a task force for planning, formed micro-level committees too as per the Centre’s advice. With vaccine candidates keen on getting final approvals as early as possible, the government has also put in a system for effective intervention to control the pandemic with the vaccine. “With multiple vaccine candidates in various stages of development, the Centre has started preparations for the introduction of the Covid-19 vaccine. As per the advice of National Expert Group (NEG) on vaccine administration, it is envisaged the vaccine will be prioritised for healthcare workers followed by frontline workers and people within risk group brackets,” said health principal secretary, Anil Kumar Singhal. While the state-level steering committee and task force have help preparatory meetings, the Centre observed that field-level administration should be involved for smooth administration of the vaccine. As per the state government’s decision, the mandal-level task force will include the mandal development officier (MDO); mandal education officer (MEO); child development project officer (CDPO); station house officer (SHO); all medical officers within the mandal, an assistant engineer, one representative from transport department nominated by district collector, one NGO member nominated by the district collector. The mandal-level committee will helmed by a senior medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-forms-mandal-level-teams-for-effective-administration-of-vaccine/articleshow/79570828.cms||Samdani MN
December 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh’s recovery rate above 98%, 599 new Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 599 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,70,675. The toll increased to 7,020 as six more people succumbed to the virus. Of the seven deaths, two were reported from Krishna and one each from Chittoor, Guntur, Kurnool and Nellore districts. As many as 913 people were declared cured. There are currently 6,422 active cases with 8,57,233 cumulative recoveries and 7,020 fatalities, translating to a recovery rate of over 98 %. Other than Krishna (115 cases), all other districts recorded less than 100 cases on Friday. Vizianagaram, which achieved 99 per cent recovery rate, reported eight positive cases — the lowest number of infections of the day. There are less than 1,000 active cases in 12 districts of the state, except Krishna. The active cases have dropped to below 200 in four districts. East Godavari posted two-digit case numbers in the last eight days in sync with the state recording less than 1,000 cases during the period. The state conducted 63,406 Covid-19 tests on Friday to detect the 599 cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 1 per cent. The overall case positivity rate has also significantly improved over the last one month. However, the mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. Over 90% beds at designated Covid-19 hospitals are now vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/aps-recovery-rate-above-98-599-new-cases/articleshow/79570852.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Centre to set up two CoEs in Visakhapatnam, plan to turn port city into ‘mini Luxembourg’||VISAKHAPATNAM: With an aim to turn the port city into a ‘Mini Luxembourg’ and enhance scope for Technology 4.0, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) is set to open two Centres of Excellence (COE) in Visakhapatnam. The two centre will house technology-related research for startups selected by the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) under the Generation Next Incubation Scheme and will help make their products more innovative and commercially viable. STPI officials said that first centre will come up at the Vizag Steel Plant jointly with Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited and Andhra Pradesh government while the second centre is slated to be set up within Andhra University (AU). “The centre inside the steel plant is solely meant for Technology 4.0, there would be research related to different technologies at the centre inside AU. The primary focus would be on Technology 4.0. We want to transform Visakhapatnam into a mini Luxembourg,” joint director and Visakhapatnam STPI in-charge, MP Dubey, told TOI. The startup incubation centre within the Andhra University premises will come up inside a four-storied building — the Gandhi Bhawan, named under the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The centre will be set up using Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (Rusa) funds. The centre at RINL will come up in a three-storied building with 6,000 square feet of built-up area. Officials said RINL is at the forefront when it comes to utilisation of latest technologies and improving productivity, safety, and environment of the organisation. The RINL is keen to take the lead on the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat drive to make India self-sustainable and reduce import of Industry 4.0 equipment. “At the same time, we are going to support startups to provide industry connect (in order) to develop Industry 4.0 products for Vizag Steel where there is an opportunity for improvement. The startup companies along with industry mentors, using the Centre’s facilities, will actually help RINL and other industries in and around such as HPCL, NTPC, BARC to a great extent,” an RINL spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/centre-to-set-up-two-coes-in-vizag-plan-to-turn-port-city-into-mini-luxembourg/articleshow/79570919.cms||Arpit Basu
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||After 5 auctions, ABG Shipyard assets to be sold privately||AHMEDABAD: In what could set a precedent for several other bankruptcy-ridden big-ticket investment projects in the country, the Ahmedabad bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has allowed the official liquidator for ABG Shipyard to carry out private sale of the assets. This happened after the liquidators failed five times in the past to find appropriate bidders by way of auction. “The private sale will help the liquidator as well as bankers to sell the assets quickly and effectively,” said advocate Nipun Singhvi who appeared on behalf of the liquidator Sundaresh Bhat. The liquidator had moved a plea for permitting private sale of the assets to NCLT in the wake of economic slowdown amid Covid-19 pandemic. The last unsuccessful auction was held on August 5 when expression of interest (EOI) was called for the fifth time but it did not attract buyers. The reserved price from the time of first auction for liquidation to the fifth one has dwindled from Rs 2,000 crores to Rs 1,200 crores, said Singhvi. As a result, the liquidator is hopeful of recovering about Rs 1,200 crore by private sale of assets, which include five ships. The company was one of the largest private sector entities in ship building and ship repair in India with a capacity to build vessels up to 20,000 (twenty thousand) dead weight tonnage (“DWT”) at the shipyard in Surat and 1,20,000 (one lakh and twenty thousand) DWT at Dahej. ABG Shipyard, however, faced challenges on account of several factors including economic downturn and the financial stress prevalent in the domestic and international shipyard industry, resulting in underutilization of facilities in the Surat Yard, suspension of operations and lockout at the Dahej Yard, delay in release of subsidy claims and cancellation of orders. Against this backdrop of unique challenges, the company had been admitted to restructuring under the corporate debt restructuring mechanism provided under the CDR Guidelines in 2013 to revive the company. But, the revival of operations did not materialize. With debt of about Rs 18,000 crore, the company’s lenders had put the shipyard on the block. The company was one of the 12 large defaulters identified by the Reserve Bank of India in August 2017 for commencement of corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. Pursuant to the admission order, Bhat had been appointed as the interim resolution professional of the company. During the CIRP period, no resolution plan was approved by the committee of creditors (CoC) of the company. The CoC proposed liquidation of the company. NCLT vide its order dated April 25, 2019 in the matter of ICICI Bank vs ABG Shipyard (“Liquidation Order”), ordered the liquidation of the company as per Section 33 of the IBC. The liquidator invited EOI for the first time on September 17, 2019 from applicants/prospective bidders to participate in the electronic auction sale process. It failed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-5-auctions-abg-shipyard-assets-to-be-sold-privately/articleshow/79572631.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 5, 2020||Pune||Cops bust inter-state gang of ATM cash robbers||PUNE: Police on Thursday claimed to have cracked the case of Rs22 lakh theft on November 5 from a cash dispensing machine at Pimple Jagtap near Shikrapur, about 50km from the city, with the arrest of six members of an inter-state gang of robbers from Madhya Pradesh. The arrested gang members have been identified as Masiullah Akhtar (21), Shahjat Khan (25) and Sharif Khan (27) from Haryana, and Samsher Mewati (40), Aamohammed Fajaruddin (34) and Shakir Mewati (33) from Rajasthan. A team of the Shikrapur police, led by inspector Umesh Tawaskar, traced the gang to Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh . The suspects have been remanded in police custody till December 7. “Prima facie probe revealed that the gang had robbed cash from six cash dispensing machines — the one in Shikrapur, three in Solapur district and two near Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh — in November. The suspects robbed about Rs80 lakh from the six machines,” sub-inspector Rajesh Mali of the Shikrapur police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-bust-inter-state-gang-of-atm-cash-robbers/articleshow/79572609.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Police notice to TDP leader Kollu Ravindra||VIJAYAWADA: A police team from Krishna went to the house of former skill development minister and TDP leader Kollu Ravindra on Friday and sought his cooperation in the investigation concerning the recent attack on transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah. The move comes after the TDP leader remarked that “unnecessary allegations” were being made against the party, citing that accused, Badugu Nageswara Rao, involved in the alleged murder attempt holds no position in TDP. He also slammed the ruling party for declaring Rao as a TDP sympathiser. While the district police concur that Rao does not hold any position in the TDP, they acknowledge that he is a TDP sympathiser and cite that his sister Badugu Umadevi is the district mahila wing president in the party. Ravindra, sources said, has agreed to cooperate with the investigation and will appear for interrogation if required. Police have so far interrogated several district-level TDP functionaries including Umadevi. Some functionaries have also applied for anticipatory bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-notice-to-tdp-leader-kollu-ravindra/articleshow/79570937.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh spending Rs 10 crore per day on Covid-19 fight: V Vijayasai Reddy to PM Modi||AMARAVATI: YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijayasai Reddy explained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state government had conducted Covid-19 tests on about 20% of the state’s population. He told the prime minister that AP is spending close to Rs 10 crore per day for containment of Covid-19. Vijayasai Reddy participated in a video-conference held by PM Modi on Friday. Vijayasai thanked the PM for extending full support to the state government in the battle against Covid-19 in the last eight months. He lauded the PM’s decision to give high priority to healthcare workers in the administration of vaccine. He said that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy took a bold decision to screen as many as possible without worrying about consequences. Vijayasai said that AP is one of the few states that conducted very high number of Covid-19 tests in the country. He said that the state government has been spending Rs.4.57 crore per day exclusively for Covid-19 tests. He said that the state government had created massive infrastructure for Covid-19 tests in a very short duration as the labs, which had zero screening capacity in the past, were ramped up to carry out nearly one lakh tests per day. Vijayasai Reddy said that the chief minister had decided to deploy nearly 432 ambulances of 108 and 656 ambulances of 104 to help Covid-19 patients. He urged the prime minister to extend liberal financial assistance to the state keeping in view of the state’s financial constraints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/state-spending-rs-10cr-per-day-on-covid-19-fight-vijayasai-to-pm/articleshow/79570864.cms||Samdani MN
December 5, 2020||Pune||Pune boy tries suicide, dies in hospital||PUNE: A 13-year-old boy from Chikhali died in a hospital on Wednesday, a day after trying to commit suicide by hanging himself at his house. Police said the boy had tried to take the extreme step after being reprimanded by his stepmother for watching television for long hours. Satish Mane, senior inspector of the Chikhali police, said the family members found the boy hanging from the ceiling of his house with a dupatta on Tuesday evening and took him to a nearby hospital. He was shifted to another hospital in Pimpri on Wednesday morning, where he was pronounced dead by the doctors. The police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/boy-tries-suicide-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/79572635.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Pune||Chill feel returns, as mercury dives to 11.9°C in Shivajinagar||Pune: Citizens woke up to a chilly morning on Friday, as the mercury dived sharply to 11.9°C in Shivajinagar — the lowest since November 12, when the city’s minimum temperature had plunged almost five degrees below normal to 9.8°C. The city’s minimum temperature mostly remained above normal post-Diwali. Even December started off with high minimums. Shivajinagar had recorded a minimum temperature of 18.2°C on December 1, Pashan registered 18.5°C and Lohegaon 19°C. The minimums dipped significantly on December 4, after a spell of warm mornings. Besides Shivajinagar’s 11.9°C, Lohegaon recorded a minimum temperature of 14.3°C on Friday. The day’s minimum temperature reading for Pashan was not available, though. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, said the sudden fall in the city’s minimum temperature was the result of the cyclonic storm “Burevi”, which turned into a deep depression by December 3 evening, sucking significant moisture from south-central parts of Maharashtra, including Pune district. The reduction in moisture caused clear night skies in parts of the state, helping the warm long wave radiation to directly escape into the atmosphere. This phenomenon is directly related to fall in minimum temperatures. “The system had depleted significant moisture from the peninsular India, by dragging it towards itself. Parts of Maharashtra also witnessed partial cold northerly wind flow. The wind regime on Friday was east-north-easterly, present at 1.5km wind profile. These are cold and dry winds,” Kashyapi said. He said the wind regime would change to easterly to east-south-easterly for the next few days, prompting a rise in minimum temperatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chill-feel-returns-as-mercury-dives-to-11-9c-in-shivajinagar/articleshow/79572622.cms||Neha Madaan
December 5, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Joint survey on to resolve AP-Odisha border dispute||Visakhapatnam: The ongoing border dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Odisha may inching closer to a resolution as a panel, comprising officials of both states, commenced a joint survey of disputed areas recently. A few weeks ago, villagers from Koraput district in Odisha along with some officials and politicos, walked into Kolaput panchayat of Dumbriguda mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency and allegedly encroached on 600 metres land on AP side by removing demarcations. It was alleged that demarcations were shifted 600 metres into AP. After the issue flared up, officials from both states identified a temporary line of the border (Stone-1) with GPS coordinates. The identification of inter-state stones will be done with consent of administrations of both states. The alleged encroachment is said to have affected four villages — Dekkaparu, Bodalamamidi, Nitamamidi and Kolaput. Revenue officials from AP and Odisha visited the old boundary where marking stones were put to demarcate borders under Madras Presidency in British India. Revenue settlement maps going back to 1956 were verified. Officials agreed to resolve the dispute by demarcating border with stones as per old maps and documents. Speaking to TOI, Dumbriguda mandal revenue officer, K Jayaprakash, said that officials from the forest and revenue departments of both states have started a joint survey at the disputed location to resolve the issue. He added that it has been resolved that the old boundary line will not be damaged or dislocated by anyone on either side until the demarcation is completed. “The dispute will be resolved soon as joint verification of the border has commenced. It will be completed in a week and the boundary dispute would be sorted out. We are confident that we will be able to claim the encroached land as we have all the documents,” the MRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/joint-survey-on-to-resolve-ap-odisha-border-dispute/articleshow/79570867.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 5, 2020||Pune||Chain snatcher arrested||Pune: The Chatushrungi police have recovered 42gm of gold ornaments and a motorcycle, collectively worth Rs3.3 lakh, from a former security guard who took to snatching gold chains to pay the EMIs of his motorcycle and clear the debts he had taken during the lockdown. In October and November, he had snatched two gold chains from Pashan and Karvenagar areas.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chain-snatcher-arrested/articleshow/79572656.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chennai||Fresh Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu hit six-month low||CHENNAI: Covid-19 cases reported in the state in the past 24 hours fell below the 1,400-mark for the first time in six months (184 days). On Friday, 1,391 fresh infections took the case tally to 7,87,554 — fourth highest in the country, next to Maharashtra (18.3 lakh), Karnataka (8.9 lakh) and Andhra Pradesh (8.7 lakh). Death toll in TN is 11,762, including the 15 who succumbed to the infection on Friday. Except for a 40-year-old from Erode, other deceased had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension. The state’s case fatality rate has remained 1.5% for almost three weeks now. More than 1.2 crore people have undergone RT-PCR tests, as many as 69,903 of them were tested on Friday. Recovery rate too continues to hover around 97%, with 7,64,854 recoveries so far. Of them, 1,426 got discharged from hospitals on Friday. Steady recoveries have pushed down active cases to 10,938 — a 43% drop compared to active cases on November 4. Hotspot Chennai continues to have a majority of active infections. Daily fresh case count remained below 400 for the seventh consecutive day. Chennai (356 new cases) and its three neighbouring districts — Chengalpet (85), Tiruvallur (66) and Kancheepuram (43) — together reported 10 of the 15 deaths on Friday. After the Chennai region, western Tamil Nadu remained the second-worst affected zone with 3,145 active cases and three deaths. Contrary to the state-wide trend, new infections (139) beat recoveries (111) in Coimbatore. In other western districts, Salem (75 new cases), Tirupur (69) and Erode (49), the average infection growth rate was under 0.5% last week and close to 0.2% in southern districts such as Madurai (34) and Tirunelveli (22). No death was reported in southern districts on Friday. Perambalur once again had no new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-covid-19-cases-in-tn-hit-six-month-low/articleshow/79572728.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University gets gift of 100-year-old degrees from student’s son||LUCKNOW: Academic degrees of a student of the first science batch of Lucknow University were handed over by his son to his alma mater as a gift in the centenary year on Friday. The degrees, about a hundred years old, belonged to Siraj Uddin Ahmed, who went on to become the first Indian to serve as deputy inspector general (DIG) of police in UP after independence. Ahmed’s son Col (retd) Fasih Ahmed presented his father’s intermediate, bachelor of science and bachelor of law degrees to vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai. “After passing intermediate in 1920, my father got enrolled in the first batch of the science degree course with chemistry, botany and zoology at the newly constituted Lucknow University. He graduated in 1922 and completed his law course in 1925 before qualifying for the Imperial Police Force,” said Col Fasih. “My father was promoted to the office of DIG on the day of independence on August 15, 1947,” he added. Col Fasih, who himself has been an LU student, reminisced about the stories his father used to tell about his student life, giving credit to LU for shaping his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-gets-gift-of-100-yr-old-degrees-from-students-son/articleshow/79573957.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-19 in West Bengal: Hospitals take renewed guard after doctor deaths||KOLKATA: The death of three state doctors on Thursday, including two in Kolkata, has set alarm bells ringing across city private hospitals that are bolstering their safety measures afresh for healthworkers who remain exposed to the risk of Covid transmission. While one of them has decided to raise the frequency of a training programme for nurses launched a few weeks ago, another has decided to issue a set of guidelines for doctors asking them to strictly adhere to the PPE-wearing protocol at both Covid and non-Covid wards. Yet another has announced a Covid allowance for healthworkers employed at the Covid wards. Twenty doctors are now under treatment for Covid at the Calcutta Medical College Hospital. That apart, several more are being treated at ID Hospital, MR Bangur Hospital and KPC Medical College, said a senior health department official. Peerless Hospital — where as many as 182 employees have had Covid so far — has put up plastic screens at its front desk and at the entrance to its Covid clinic to check transmission. “We are in the process of identifying every possible spot where our employees — including doctors, nurses, front office personnel and housekeeping staff — are likely to come in close contact with patients and their kin. These spots will have plastic barriers that will not only act as a shield but also serve as a reminder that they need to maintain a distance,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. He added that the hospital has made it mandatory for all healthworkers and employees to be in PPE inside wards, irrespective of whether it is a Covid unit or a non-Covid one. “That apart, we have installed a negative pressure air flow system to ensure that cross-ventilation does not happen across the wards,” added Mitra. AMRI Hospitals plans to intensify its training programme for nurses, many of whom have been freshly recruited following a mass exodus since September. “Doctors and nurses are being apprised of the safety norms repeatedly since this is of prime importance. Special emphasis is being given to the PPE wearing, handling and disposing methods that are crucial in checking transmission,” said CEO Rupak Barua. More than 200 healthworkers have been affected across the three AMRI units since April. Less than 10 are now infected. Senior doctors including a gynaecologist, a neuro surgeon, an ophthalmologist and a radiologist are among the 20-odd doctors undergoing treatment at Medical College currently. Many are in the critical care units. “Doctors always tend to get higher viral load as they are exposed to so many patients some of them might be asymptomatic carriers. That is the reason why we should not be neglecting even the slightest of symptoms, get tested on time for timely intervention,” said public health specialist Anirban Dalui. More than 300 healthcare workers have been infected at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) so far. “But the infection rates are similar across staff on Covid as well as non-Covid duties. This shows that these infections are largely community acquired. Yet, we continue to follow the most stringent steps to prevent infection among healthcare workers. Even though the positivity rates are reducing, the measures will remain in place,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. ILS Hospital has introduced a Covid allowance for its healthworkers to ‘keep them financially motivated’. “That apart, we ensure that they are provided with best quality covid protection gears that are replaced on every donning and doffing,” said Debasish Dhar, group vice -president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-take-renewed-guard-after-doc-deaths/articleshow/79572634.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 5, 2020||Pune||Now, pay higher fine if illegally parked vehicle is towed in Pune||PUNE: The traffic police have increased the fines for vehicles that are towed away from no-parking zones. The traffic police said the hikes were necessary as the company that provides the towing service increased its rates. For two-wheeler, the penalty has increased from Rs436 to Rs460, while four-wheeler owners, who earlier paid Rs670, would no have to pay Rs720. As per an officer close to the development, the hikes were in line with a five-year agreement between the Pune police commissionerate and the Nagpur-based company. The officer said the higher rates would also serve as a deterrent. “As per to the agreement, the towing charges will be increased by 10% every year. GST of 18% is levied on the towing charges, which has to be borne by the errant motorist. According to the Motor Vehicles Act, the fine for wrong parking, for both two- and four-wheelers is Rs200. The towing charge is Rs200 for two-wheelers and Rs400 for four-wheelers,” the officer explained. Experts and activists, meanwhile, said increased fines would not be enough and blamed illegal parking on the non-implementation of the Pune Municipal Corporation parking policy and a poor public transport system. Harshad Abhyankar, founder of Save Pune Traffic Movement, said the higher penalties would be a deterrent only through sustained police action. “However, we have seen that the police act on complaints posted on social media for a day or so, and things are back to square one the next day. Proper parking management is more important,” Abhyankar said. Sujit Patwardhan, convener of city-based NGO Parisar, welcomed the increase in fines, but stressed on the need to implement the parking policy. “The officials have been sitting on it for two years. Also, there is little improvement in the public transport system. Poor public transport means more private vehicles on the roads and an increased need for parking,” Patwardhan said. Prashant Inamdar of Pedestrians First, conversely, said that the new fines will not help. “The increase is only nominal. Offenders will not feel the pinch while paying Rs30-50 extra. New, convenient parking spaces must be created,” Inamdar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/now-pay-higher-fine-if-illegally-parked-vehicle-is-towed/articleshow/79572662.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 5, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC asks 2 companies to supply chic carts to Marina vendors||CHENNAI: To ensure supply of 900 smart carts in double quick time for vendors on Marina Beach, the Madras high court took an exceptional step and modified the tender finalised by Greater Chennai Corporation. A division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice M S Ramesh directed the corporation to allot the tender on 50:50 basis between the highest bidder and the runner up, instead of allotting it to a single manufacturer. “Splitting the tender would bring in competition among the suppliers and help sticking to the schedule,” the bench said on Friday. The court further directed the corporation to impose heavy penalties on the suppliers if they miss the schedule and delay supply. “The supply of 450 push carts by each of the suppliers in three phases, in three months, will be undertaken. Supply and payments to them will be reported to this court every month,” the judges said. To avoid and prevent any delay in the supply, both the suppliers have agreed to a penalty of price cut of upto 50% for carts supplied belatedly, and this reduction can be staggered, the court said. The bench passed the interim order despite opposition from A Quad Enterprises, which won the tender for supply of 900 smart carts for Rs 17.2 crore. Representing the firm, senior advocate A R L Sundresan submitted that the company has already procured raw material required for the project and splitting the tender now would put them in heavy loss. Refusing to accept the contentions, the bench asked the company to share the business for once in the larger public interest. “Why don’t you share the cake,” the court said. When the court asked the stand of the corporation, the commissioner G Prakash said the civic body was ready to split the tender if the court issues such a direction. Recording the submissions, the bench directed the corporation to issue work orders in favour of both the suppliers on December 7. The court made it clear that the directions are made in larger public interest and will in no way form a precedent for any other contracts awarded by the corporation. The orders were passed on a PIL moved by Fishermen Care. The scope of the PIL was suo motu enlarged by the court to regulate vending on the sands of Marina.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-asks-2-cos-to-supply-chic-carts-to-marina-vendors/articleshow/79572645.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Doctor couple give eye treatment to driver for free||AURANGABAD: The tourist visit of a doctor couple from Aurangabad to Kerala turned out to be an unexpected boon for a taxi driver in the God’s own country. K Leenboy had lost everything, including his house, utensils and savings, in a recent flood. He began rebuilding his life from scratch and took up a job of a tourist taxi driver with a tour and travel firm. That is how he met ophthalmologist Vikram Thakur and his ophthalmologist surgeon wife Heena, both in their mid-30s, about a fortnight back. They couple was visiting Kerala after Diwali. During their interactions, he revealed that due to his poor economic conditions clubbed with the responsibility of being the sole breadwinner for the family, he could not undergo cataract operation. This also limited his movement after sunset. Moreover, he had avoided confiding about his ailment with his fellow drivers or employers, as he feared of losing the job at hand. Moved by his personal sufferings as well as the risk he was posing to his and others’ life, the ophthalmologist couple not only booked a return ticket from Aurangabad for the driver, but also operated on him for free of cost at their hospital ‘Shivkala Netralaya’ situated in the vicinity of Jabinda Lawns. When contacted, Dr Vikram said, “My grandfather and father always taught us that service to mankind is service to God and it is an honour for us to help any underprivileged person that we come across.” Going a step ahead, the doctor couple kept the man in their house and waited for him to completely recover before he could go back. “All I can say is that Almighty had sent this doctor couple to help me. They are nothing less than angels to me,” Leenboy told TOI. Dr Heena said that they have always waived off their fees and charges if they felt that a patient consulting them is unable to afford the payment. “If the person visiting us is unable to pay our fees, we do not hesitate waiving off. This has been the tradition since we got in to this profession,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/doctor-couple-give-eye-treatment-to-driver-for-free/articleshow/79570534.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||On bail, Rajasthan sarpanch seeks court nod to run village||AHMEDABAD: Manaram Paliwar (42) knocks on the court’s doors every month so that he could run the affairs in his native village in Rajasthan, where he is a sarpanch. It is a bail condition imposed by the Gujarat high court that has made his political life difficult. He has to obtain permission from the court to move outside Gujarat and attend his gram sabha. Paliwar was arrested in connection with an offence in Chiloda village of Gandhinagar district. Eight persons were arrested and booked for planning an armed dacoity in March. Paliwar was not part of the alleged gang, but he was accused of supplying his automatic pistol to the accused persons. The high court released him on bail in June, but restrained his movement to Gujarat. Out on bail, Paliwar chose to live in Surat but he has been requesting the courts every month to permit him to leave Gujarat and go to his village Kudi in Badmer district in Rajasthan to attend gram sabha. He requests the courts that he has important duty to carry out as a sarpanch in gram sabha. There are several development works that remain pending in his absence and he has to push for them by following certain formalities. When he approached the Gandhingar court with this request to permit him to visit his village for 10 days, the state government opposed his application and the court rejected it. Paliwar obtained permission to leave Gujarat to attend gram sabha from the high court. Since then, he has been seeking court’s permission every month to attend official meeting in his village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/on-bail-rajasthan-sarpanch-seeks-court-nod-to-run-village/articleshow/79572650.cms||Saeed Khan
December 5, 2020||Goa||Pollution board finds pipelines, no borewells in Cuncolim industrial unit||Margao: Despite the ground penetration radar (GPR) survey identifying 10 locations for suspected borewells, chambers or pipelines inside the premises of United Marine Products at Cuncolim industrial estate, the panchanama report prepared by the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) with regard to the physical verification of the unit on December 1 has revealed that nothing in particular was found at five of the 10 points identified in the GPR survey. However, several chambers and pipelines were found at the other five points following excavation at the locations identified in the GPR survey, including one empty chamber without any pipeline, according to the panchanama report. The GSPCB had on November 5 and 6 conducted a GPR survey of four fish meal and fish processing units located in the Cuncolim industrial estate – United Marine Products, Quality Foods, Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries, and Indotech Ice and Cold Storage. In a notice to the four units, it had said that during the GPR survey, chambers/pits/pipes were identified to be located underground within their premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-finds-pipelines-no-borewells-in-cuncolim-industrial-unit/articleshow/79574430.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||For Rs 200, HSRP likely to be delivered to doorstep||Panaji: Vendor of the high security registration plates (HSRP) has submitted the proposal for home delivery of number plates to the directorate of transport. If approved, vehicle owners can get their HSRP fitment done at home at an additional cost of Rs 200. “The vendor has given an application to allow charging Rs 200 for extra service. The department will respond to him shortly,” director of transport Rajan Satardekar said. Sources from the department said that the file is being put up before the authorities for discussion. TOI had earlier reported that the vendor had sought permission to implement this alternative of home delivery owing to the pandemic. “We are making this arrangement due to Covid and accordingly quoted the home delivery charges. Since the delivery boys will be visiting each home for the fitment, there will obviously be extra fuel cost and conveyance charge,” assistant general manager, Real Mazon India Ltd, Biswajeet Mukherjee told TOI. He added that a similar system is being followed in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. According to the proposed arrangement, customers need not visit the RTO for booking or the fitment centre for installation. With the help of their smart RC, they can complete the booking online on the Real Mazon website. After which, the vendor will home deliver the HSRP and fit the number plate. The contractor plans to hire delivery boys to cater to service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-rs-200-hsrp-likely-to-be-delivered-to-doorstep/articleshow/79574437.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Sprinkle water to control dust: NGT to local bodies||NEW DELHI: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed all municipal corporations and local bodies in the National Capital Region (NCR) and cities where air quality is ‘poor’ to ensure that water is sprinkled on roads before sweeping them. The tribunal has asked for water to be used from Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) so that fresh water does not get wasted. “We direct all municipal corporations/local bodies in NCR, where air quality levels are normally non-compliant and other cities with the air quality ‘poor’ and above, to ensure sprinkling of water before sweeping of roads,” said a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel. The tribunal has also asked agencies to carry out other steps to prevent dust upliftment, such as planting grass or raising small herbs and shrubs on the sides of pavements, road shoulders and open dusty areas. “The pavements may also be appropriately covered to prevent generation of dust. Attention also needs to be given to stop burning of biomass/waste and regulate construction and demolition activities by following the guidelines and protocols under GRAP/NCAP already laid down,” said the bench. The tribunal has asked local bodies and corporations to submit compliance reports regarding this to the principal secretary, environment of the state, once every quarter. The first such report has to be furnished by February 1, 2021, mentioning all the steps initiated to control dust upliftment. It stated the principal secretary, environment, of each state can also compile data and furnish it to the CPCB, with the pollution board required to provide a consolidated report by March 31, 2021. The tribunal’s direction came on a plea filed by an applicant, RS Virk, who had sought action to mitigate the impact of dust pollution arising out of dry sweeping in the region. The applicant in his plea states that dust contributes to around 43% of the total air pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sprinkle-water-to-control-dust-ngt-to-local-bodies/articleshow/79573960.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad cops lathi-charge farmers protesting at busy chowk||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad city police resorted to mild lathicharge on Friday afternoon after a large number of farmers gathered at the assistant sugar commissioner’s office and staged a mega rasta roko without any prior permission. Based on the complaint lodged by police assistant sub inspector Kachru Nikam, Kranti Chowk police have registered a case against about 150 farmers on the charges of unlawful assembly, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant. In addition to this, sections of The Epidemic Diseases Act were also slapped on the farmers. The sugar cane farmers led by one Santosh Jadhav had gathered in front of assistant sugar commissioner’s office at Aurangabad demanding that the farmers’ money deposited in a sugar cooperative factory’s bank accounts be released at the earliest. MLA Prashant Bamb later joined the protest. The farmers claimed that about 1,500 farmers had deposited money in the cooperative factory after the debt revenue tribunal asked the farmers to deposit money before becoming a party to the case, in which proceeding was initiated for recovery of debt against the sugar factory. The farmers alleged that attempts were made to sell off the sugar factory at throwaway prices. The farmers along with Bamb contested the move. The farmers while making a representation to the sugar authorities on Friday claimed that after the process to return the deposit taken from the farmers was initiated, but an offence of cheating and siphoning of funds had been registered by Aurangabad rural police. Bamb, who currently heads the sugar factory, along with 15 others were booked by the Aurangabad rural police for alleged siphoning off over Rs 15 cr from the sugar factory’s bank accounts. The day also witnessed a bandh called out by traders at Lasur station demanding withdrawal of the case against MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cops-lathi-charge-farmers-protesting-at-busy-chowk/articleshow/79570595.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Now, find nearest Covid testing centre on App||LUCKNOW: UP government will launch a Covid-19 test centre locator mobile application on Saturday which will show locations of testing centres within a 5km radius of a person searching for one. The App will also give details about the centres, location on the map, cost of tests, timing of the centre among others. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had given directions for the preparation of such an App which would make it easier for people to locate testing centres nearest to them,” said additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad. The App, which will provide district and city level data, can be downloaded from the director general medical health website: http://dgmhup.gov.in. The details of the testing centres will be compiled by field level officers. For each centre, they will take down details like GPS location and address of the test centre, its name, mobile number, landline number and pin code on a special mobile App. Once these details are collected, they will reflect on the web portal of the district administration. The final step before the centre starts appearing on the App is an approval by the district administration.  “When someone accesses this App, all approved test centres within a 5km radius will be visible on the map view. The user will also have the option of searching for test centres through the search tool by keying in the address or name of the centre. The App can be downloaded from the Google Playstore and the DGMH website,” a government spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/now-find-nearest-covid-testing-centre-on-app/articleshow/79573968.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi Adityanath exhorts youths to stay strong like Maharana Pratap||GORAKHPUR: Citing the example of Maharana Pratap, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday exhorted the youth to stay strong and never bow in front of challenges to achieve desired goals in life. Yogi was speaking at the inaugural function of the week-long Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad Foundation Day celebrations in presence of chief guest, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat, and special guest Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma. Human-sized statues of Maharana Pratap, Brahmaleen Mahant Digvijaynath and Brahmaleen Mahant Avaidyanath and a new stage was also inaugurated at Maharana Pratap Inter College in Gorakhpur during the function. Exhorting the youth to work with a purpose in life, Yogi said, “Maharana Pratap lived in forests and ate ‘roti’ (bread) made of grass but didn’t bow in front of foreign forces. If you want to be successful in life, set goals and select the right icons for inspiration as a person with negative thoughts could never attain success. Today, statues of Maharana Pratap, Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath have been inaugurated with a new stage. These are not only statutes but our inspiration. We need to stay strong in front of challenges and work on turning them into opportunities.” “Mahant Digvjaynath Ji established Maharana Pratap Siksha Parishad taking inspiration from Maharana Pratap 88 years ago. In the coming 10-12 years, we’ll be celebrating the centenary of MPSP. We need to start the preparations from now on,” Yogi added. While praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visionary Swachch Bharat campaign, the CM appealed all to follow Covid protocol. “This year, we have been able to control 95% encephalitis deaths. PM Modi’s visionary Swachch Bharat campaign has helped us a lot in achieving this target. With the guidance of PM Modi, people resolutely faced the challenge of Covid. State and the Central government are not only putting in huge efforts to control Covid, but also preparing for vaccination. But, we have to continue taking precautions and keep following Covid protocol,” the CM said. The CM said during discussions with Gen Rawat he came to know that even adverse conditions like extreme low temperatures are motivating our jawans and giving them strength to fight against enemies on the borders. He recited a few lines written by poet Randhari Singh Dinkar to make it clear that challenges make one strong . Gen Rawat highlighted the importance of hard work in life and gave the example of presidents Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and APJ Abdul Kalam. Pronouncing a ‘sholka’ from Bhagwat Gita and thoughts of Swami Vivekananda, Gen Rawat said, “Hard work and team spirit are two important ingredients of success. Teachers are important in life and can’t be replaced with technology (Google Baba).” He also quoted President Kalam’s saying, “if one wants to shine like a sun, one should first burn like a sun.” Gen Rawat also congratulated MPSP students for acquiring education based on Indian culture. “We were slaves of foreign invaders for a long time. During that period we changed many things in our culture. Now, the time has come to return to our culture,” he added. Sharma said that without literature, art and culture a human being is like a tailless animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-exhorts-youths-to-stay-strong-like-maharana-pratap/articleshow/79572742.cms||Arjumand Bano
December 5, 2020||Kochi||Structural reforms the onlyway forward for Kochi corp||KOCHI: In a few weeks from now, as 2021 dawns, the city of Kochi would have a new administration in place, but it would be impossible to hope that the electoral mandate would usher in real change unless the local body, which has been disempowered and depoliticised as an institution, undergoes structural reforms. Woes of the city of Kochi, like many other local bodies, are too many. But the primary among them is the huge imbalance in power structure, as the secretary appointed by the state government holds the executive powers and the mayor plays a ceremonial role. Ideally, urban local bodies like Kochi should have an IAS officer as secretary but in recent times, the post had gone to secretaries, whose qualification would be a law degree, transferred from smaller towns. Another major area of concern is the administrative independence of the corporation as most officials are deputed from the state. Parallel development agencies like the Cochin Smart City Mission Limited and Special Purpose Vehicles are also eating into the powers and functions of the local body. “All urban bodies are under state government’s control. Changes should happen in three levels — functions, functionaries and finance,” said K J Sohan, former mayor of Kochi corporation. For many years several crucial posts including that of the chief health officer, who has wide powers defined by three different Acts, have been lying vacant, said Sohan. The city does not have town planners and enough engineers to manage various zones. “A CHO, who is an MBBS doctor with specialization in community medicine, would have efficiently faced a pandemic situation but the local body has to be satisfied with health inspectors, who does not have leadership capability. Public health is a municipal function the world over. Here, the state government brought in an ordinance for control of epidemics and usurped the function of the municipal body,” he said. The failure of the state government to devolve powers to urban local bodies as per the 12th schedule under the 74th amendment of the Constitution has contributed to the institutional weakening. “The state government keeps boasting about decentralization but none of the powers have been transferred to the corporation,” says Sohan. The 73rd and 74th Constitutional amendments were passed 28 years ago in December 1992 in a bid to transform local bodies into autonomous units. Biley Menon, architect and urban designer, said there’s an urgent need to constitute a Metropolitan Planning Committee (MPC), which is mandatory under the constitution to meet the planning needs of Kochi Urban Agglomeration. “The regional town planning office represents the state government and it is difficult for local bodies to partner with it. The GCDA is defunct. In my opinion, GCDA should be reconstituted as the MPC,” says Menon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/structural-reforms-the-onlyway-forward-for-kochi-corp/articleshow/79570584.cms||Binu Karunakaran
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wind to bring in moisture, expect foggy mornings||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the capital deteriorated to the higher end of the very poor category on Friday, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 382, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin. In comparison, the AQI on Thursday was 341 (very poor). Track the pollution level in your cityAgencies forecast the air quality to deteriorate even further in the next 24 hours, with the India Meteorological Department also forecasting shallow to moderate fog over the next two days. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said easterly winds were now blowing towards Delhi, carrying moisture, which may cause shallow fog over the next two days. “Shallow or moderate fog can be expected. The visibility may drop to 300 metres at some places. An increase in moisture levels, mixed with pollutants may cause this,” he said. Srivastava said that shallow fog was recorded on Friday morning as well, with visibility dropping to around 800 metres in the early hours.A change in wind direction to north-westerly is only expected by around December 8. “The minimum temperature will remain around 9-10 degrees Celsius until Monday, before it starts dropping again. Colder north-westerly winds will begin influencing Delhi from Tuesday,” said Srivastava. The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research , a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, in its forecast on Friday said that calm wind conditions were prevailing in the region, which may push Delhi’s air into severe category again. Delhi recorded nine ‘severe’ air days in November, when the AQI was higher than 400. The capital is yet to record a ‘severe’ air day in December. The city’s minimum temperature was 8 degrees Celsius on Friday – one degree below normal. The daytime temperature saw the maximum touch 28.8 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Forecast for Saturday shows the minimum may rise to 10 degrees Celsius, while the maximum should remain around 28 degrees C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wind-to-bring-in-moisture-expect-foggy-mornings/articleshow/79573971.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||IMA cautions on emergency approvals||NEW DELHI: News about probable Covid-19 vaccine is creating sensations around the world after it was highlighted through media that coronavirus vaccine will be available by December-end. But according to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), media coverage is causing unnecessary hype regarding the vaccine. According to a statement issued by IMA Maharashtra president, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, such emergency in approval for vaccine has more disadvantages than advantages. “Safety of the vaccine has to be tested widely with a large number of volunteers across the globe. Any vaccine which is not tested fully with such third stage clinical trials is not safe,” reads the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ima-cautions-on-emergency-approvals/articleshow/79575082.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Ind Sarnaik beats sitting MLC, BJP finishes No. 6 in Amravati||Amravati: Kiran Sarnaik of Shivaji Shikshan Sanstha, Washim, is the new face to represent the Amravati Division Teachers constituency in Maharashtra Legislative Council. Sarnaik, an independent candidate, led from round one after counting started on Thursday at 8am and did not concede his lead even once throughout the next 23 rounds. He was declared winner on Friday night. There were 27 candidates in fray for whom 30,918 out of 35,622 voters had cast their votes. Of these, 29,829 votes were found valid while 1,089 were declared invalid. The winner’s quota was fixed at 14,918, which Sarnaik exceeded by polling 15,606 after elimination of sitting MLC Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena. Deshpande had won as an independent from Shikshak Aghadi in the 2014 election.Both Shiv Sena, under ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state, and BJP were contesting for the first time in the constituency. Sarnaik got 6,088 first preference votes as against Deshpande’s 5,124. BJP candidate Dr Nitin Dhande polled 666 first preference votes and was at sixth position until his elimination. The teachers not only rejected the political candidates but also candidates of established teacher organizations. BJP state spokesperson Shivrai Kulkarni attributed the loss to the decision of contesting the seat at the eleventh hour. This, he said, did not give enough time for the candidate to contact voters spread across 56 tehsils of five districts in the division. Kiran Paturkar, BJP city president, said little time for campaigning, plus strategic failure in securing second preference votes spelled doom for the party candidate. He alleged that Sarnaik’s strategy of distributing Paithani saris and cash purses to voters paid off for him. Two offences had been registered against Sarnaik for allegedly distributing saris and cash among the voters during campaigning.“The party chose a good candidate who was literate and has own vote bank but voters fell prey to alluring tactics of Sarnaik who was not well known,” said Paturkar.Expressing anguish, Avinash Borde of Vijucta, who finished fifth, said teachers forgot that what they are getting today came to them through the movements raised by teacher organizations. “Today’s result is the indication that these movements have lost momentum,” he said.Sangita Shinde-Bonde, who was the only female in fray and finished fourth, said, “I contested honestly and got the support of teachers but not to the extent I was expecting. I will continue to fight for their cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ind-sarnaik-beats-sitting-mlc-bjp-finishes-no-6-in-amravati/articleshow/79571516.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to touch record 2 crore Covid tests this weekend||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh is on the verge of creating another record in Covid-19 testing this weekend—of conducting more than 2 crore coronavirus tests. On Friday, the total number of tests conducted in the state touched 1.99 crore, with over 1.7 lakh additions in the past 24 hours. “Besides being the highest in the country, the landmark speaks for the fact that UP has outdone itself each time on the count,” said Alok Kumar, secretary to chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who Kumar said has encouraged UP to scale new highs in testing each time a new benchmark was achieved. According to data from the Indian Council of Medical Research, more than 14.5 crore Covid-19 tests have been done in the country since the outbreak of the virus. UP’s share of nearly 2 crore tests means almost 14% of all coronavirus tests undertaken in the country were here. Kumar said that the emphasis is on increasing the share of RT PCR tests among the total conducted on a daily basis. Additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad said that UP’s Covid-19 case positivity rate for December has also remained lower than 1.5%. Meanwhile, 1,985 fresh cases took UP Covid-19 tally to 5,51,179 while the number of recoveries increased to 5,20,637 with 2,247 fresh entries. The state also recorded 29 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-touch-record-2-crore-covid-tests-this-weekend/articleshow/79573973.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 5, 2020||Kochi||‘Kochi needs own planning wing’||Kochi: Cities like Kochi should become robust in terms of local finances by ensuring profit making ventures that use the city services pay for it fairly, feel experts in the field of urban planning and governance. “For instance, at the moment private developers make their profit by hardly ever paying for the strain on public services that they cause. The city must find a way (a formula or a framework for negotiation) wherein developers of each block of flats permitted have to pay upfront for the services that the city will need to provide for the additional occupants that they bring in — a form of development impact charge,” said Angelique Chettiparambil Rajan, professor of urban planning and governance, University of Reading, UK. Kochi should also have own its planning instead of delegating it to a state department divorced from the day-to-day workings of the city, she said. “There is currently hardly any forward planning taking place within the corporation and therefore no qualified planners within the body. The city needs its own planning wing staffed with professional planners that engage in strategic forward planning.” Angelique also advocated for a stronger system of decentralization within the city and to the wards in particular service areas and their streamlining. “Decentralized waste disposal, energy generation and water management for instance can be promoted and encouraged by devolving responsibilities for this to ward councillors within an overarching collectively agreed strategic framework set by the city,” she said. Kochi, as a major port and economic hub, is a key growth engine for Kerala but state governments over the years have not been responsive to its needs. “Lonely Planet, in 2019, had rated Kochi as one of top 10 places in the world and the National Geographic Traveller, the same year listed it among the top 25 destinations.But the state government is not supporting it in a way it should,” feels Biley Menon, architect and urban designer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-needs-own-planning-wing/articleshow/79570607.cms||Binu Karunakaran
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Almond langar for farmers on protest||Jalandhar: When langar is already an integral part of the farmers’ protests at Delhi border and villagers are sending pinnis to keep them in good health, two NRI brothers have started serving almond langar for farmers. Around 20 quintal almonds have already been sent from Jalandhar and more are coming. The almonds are being sent by California-based Tut brothers in the US. Originally from Paragpur village on the Jalandhar outskirts, Tuts are among big almond producers in the US and are sending these free through their trusted friends. Some other philathropists also sent dry fruits at the protest site. On Friday, cashew nuts and raisins were distributed. “Our friend Jasbir Singh from Tanda in Hoshiarpur district wanted to serve almonds and approached me for providing these at half the price. When I learnt that he wanted to serve these in langar at the farmers’ protest venues, we decided not to charge anything and instead make it our contribution to a cause so important to entire Punjab,” said Ranjit Singh Tut when TOI contacted him on Friday. The four Tut brothers are known for philanthropic works, especially related to Sikh community. In the first consignment, five quintal almonds were sent through Jasbir, and then more followed. “A few other close friends and relatives have also chipped in. I have asked them to provide almond bags to volunteers serving langar or working in other physical tasks,” he said. “We have already sent around 20 quintal almonds and more would be sent,” said Ranjit’s cousin Ranbir Singh Tut, who is managing the operations here in Jalandhar. “Earlier, we were getting shipments of unsheathed almonds but after demonetisation, a few of our containers were wasted as traders did not get these released and the dry fruit got spoiled. Then my US-based cousins decided to have machines here for complete processing and taking the almonds out and supplying in Indian market,” he added. Videos of almonds and other dry fruits being served among farmers have already gone viral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/almond-langar-for-farmers-on-protest/articleshow/79574743.cms||IP Singh
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid saffron surge in Hyderabad, pink party pales in victory||HYDERABAD: The BJP’s high-octane, star-studded campaign helped it to put on a stunning performance in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections on Friday. Although it finished second in the race, its tally jumped from just four wards in 2016 to a jaw-dropping 48 this time. The number is just seven short of the TRS’s tally of 55 in house on 150. The result of one ward has been held back because of a pending case in the high court. With this win, BJP has effectively dethroned the Congress as the main opposition in Telangana. It will now work towards making its presence felt in the state assembly in 2023. Interestingly, the grand show has come just a week before the TRS government is set to complete two years in office in its second term. BJP has not only made inroads into TRS areas by winning 48 wards of the 149 results declared, it has also substantially increased its vote by eating into the vote share of both the TRS and Congress. TRS had won 99 wards in 2016. The GHMC region is crucial for all political parties as it has 25 assembly segments and four Lok Sabha seats. Though TRS emerged as the single largest party, its numbers would not be enough to elect a mayor and deputy mayor on its own strength. It needed at least 67 divisions to have its own mayor without the support of any other party, as it already has 31 ex-officio votes made up of its MPs, MLAs and MLCs. Given the hung house, Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has emerged as the kingmaker with 44 wards and 10 ex-officio members. The party continued to hold sway in the Old City as it held on to its tally from 2016. Bandi: Downfall of TRS has startedKarimnagar MP and state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay, the hero of the saffron party’s show, thanked voters with folded hands and claimed the downfall of the TRS had started. “Development is our mantra and people are rearing to dislodge TRS,” he said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah in a tweet in Telugu congratulated Sanjay and J P Nadda for party’s good show. The worst sufferer in the polls was the Congress which failed to improve its performance since the last polls. It had won two seats in 2016 and managed to win two this time, although in different wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-saffron-surge-in-city-pink-party-pales-in-victory/articleshow/79574439.cms||Roushan Ali
December 5, 2020||Kolhapur||6 arrested for theft at 11 temples||Kolhapur: Kurundwad police in Kolhapur district have arrested a gang of six thieves, who allegedly stole valuables from as many as 11 temples in the last two years. Police have seized 30kg of silver ornaments, 27gm of gold and a motorcycle from the suspects. Deputy superintendent of police Jayshree Gaikwad told media persons apart from the six thieves, a goldsmith, who used to purchase stolen valuables, has also been arrested. The gang had allegedly committed thefts at temples in Herwad, Bastgaon, Nimshirgaon and Danoli in Shirol tehsil, Bhedwade, Minche, Kini, Kabnur and Rangoli in Hatkanangale tehsil and Eaksamba temple in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-arrested-for-theft-at-11-temples/articleshow/79570615.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: SGPC to give Rs 1 lakh to kin of each protester who died||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has announced to give a compensation of Rs 1 lakh each to the next of kin of seven farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing farmers agitation. The committee will also provide basic amenities to agitators sitting on Delhi border and recite prayers in all historical gurdwaras for the success of their protest, said SGPC president Jagir Kaur on Friday. Concerned over amenities for women at protests outside Delhi, Jagir said SGPC would provide portable bathroom and lavatories for them. She informed that SGPC’s executive committee, in a meeting, had decided to recite prayers, kirtan and offer ardas for the success of the farmers’ movement at all historical gurdwaras on December 7 from 8am to 9am. Kaur also appealed to Sikhs living across the globe to hold ‘ardas’ at their homes and gurdwaras. The SGPC president justified returning of the awards and medals in protest against the three agri laws which have evoked protests across the country. "We fully endorse the decision of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and every political, religious and social activist, sportsperson and others who have returned their awards to the government to show their resentment against the three farm laws,” she said. Jagir was also critical of the central government’s decision of introducing three farm laws. She also censured actor Kangna Ranaut for allegedly showing disrespect to the elderly women. During the meeting, the SGPC’s executive body decided to constitute a committee for its publication department which would ensure implementation of maryada (Sikh code of religious conduct) during the publication of Sri Guru Granth Sahib (SGGS) and monitor departments functioning. The committee would also scrutinize the issue of missing SGGS in past. In another decision, the SGPC would implement a dress code for its employees. Also, it decided to stop the practice of giving ‘loi’ (shawls) for honouring guests and only give the siropa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sgpc-to-give-rs-1-lakh-to-kin-of-each-protester-who-died/articleshow/79574745.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||AQI dips to ‘very poor’ level in Kolkata, doctors sound health alarm||KOLKATA: The city’s air quality has started degrading fast with steady reduction of ambient temperature and vertical wind speed. Air quality index (AQI) at air quality monitoring stations across the city breached the 300-mark to enter the ‘very poor’ category, with Rabindra Bharati University station even breaching the 400-mark to make way into the ‘severe’ category. Health experts alerted that prolonged exposure to such air will inevitably cause respiratory illness. Significantly, the milder wintry sun rays could not help dispersing the finer pollutants in the ambient air up in the atmosphere. As the day progressed, the air got foul with AQI curve taking a sharp upswing. Unless there is a magical meteorological change, the air quality is likely to decline further, said a West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) scientist. “The reading at Rabindra Bharati station is a major cause of concern for us. Waste burning at Pramod Nagar landfill site might be the reason. We have deployed two fire tenders to douse the flames. To stop road dust re-suspension, we have engaged sprinklers to spray water laced with chemicals. We may need an intense study to find out the source,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. TimesViewThings are turning worse with the temperature dipping but pollution is not entirely a factor of the weather; there are several measures (both long-term, like reducing vehicular pollution, and short-term, like not burning refuse) that we can adopt to help ourselves. The reports are daily reminders of the dangers we expose ourselves to by refusing to learn from past mistakes.Rabindra Sarobar, the lung of south Kolkata, which represents the city’s best possible air quality, also turned poor, bordering on very poor air. “In fact, it is dangerous to have morning walk in the lake right now. We will end up breathing in a lot of finer pollutants which will go into our blood stream to cause disaster,” said environment activist Somendranath Ghosh. The city’s air pollution is driven by PM2.5. These are ultrafine particles of diameter less than 2.5 micrometers, which is about 3% the diameter of a human hair and can travel straight into the blood stream. The noxious chemicals riding piggyback on these particles play havoc with human lives. “Whether it is poorer air quality or not, we have started receiving a lot of patients with lung issues. With the further degradation of air quality, there will be more and more cases of bronchitis, COPD, asthma,” said Dr Sushmita Roychowdhury, pulmonologist with Apollo Gleneagles Hospital. Senior pulmonologist Dr Arup Haldar also echoed him. “The jump in number of patients with breathing distress is quite significant. During the complete lockdown, the number reduced drastically.” Haldar advised against any outdoor physical activities by elderly people under such circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/aqi-dips-to-very-poor-level-doctors-sound-health-alarm/articleshow/79572783.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab netizens man virtual bastion as farmers protest||JALANDHAR: Punjabi farmers are not just breaking barricades to reach the borders of Delhi to protest against farm laws, they are also storming Twitter to challenge propaganda against their agitation. For the last three days, they have made “Tractor2Twitter” and three other hashtags for Twitter trends. They also worked on pushing other hashtags in support of their movement up on the trending list. While netizens from other places, including a few prominent handles, have also contributed significantly, those from Punjab are particularly active. All this happened less than a week after Punjabi netizens ran a campaign urging others to counter the propaganda against farmers who braved barricades, water cannons, tear gas and even a few lathis. When the ‘Tractor2Twitter’ campaign was started on Facebook, several Punjabi netizens joined Twitter. Now, hashtags are announced beforehand and then used. The #Tractor2Twitter has been trending since Wednesday, #BoycottAdaniAmbani has been trending since Wednedsay, #TakeBackFarmLaws since Thursday and #FarmersAreLifeLine since Friday. Other pro-farmer hashtags are also being used. On Friday evening, #FarmersProtestDelhi2020 was trending along with #FarmersAreLifeLine and #TakeBackFarmLaws. The page, Tractor2Twitter, started around a week back, has gathered over 7,600 followers. Hashtags are announced from this handle and other netizens quickly spread these. Informative pieces and articles on agricultural issues are also being circulated. On Friday, Punjabi singer Ranjit Bawa quipped about the repeated trends, “eve lagda jinve sara Punjab aa gya twitter te…” (It seems as if entire Punjab has joined Twitter). When Punjabi singer and actor Diljit Dosanjh had a spat with actor Kangana Ranaut, he received considerable support from Punjabi netizens. The agitation has also fostered camaraderie between Punjabi and Haryanvi farmers. Apart from the shared agitation on the ground, a number of pictures and stories of the bonhomie between Haryanvis and Punjabis are doing the rounds. Several Punjabi and Haryanvi netizens have uploaded posts expressing mutual respect and admiration. At least for now, the bitterness around the SYL issue is forgotten. With farmers and other residents of Haryana extending help to Punjabi protesters at the Delhi border, Punjabis from the protest site and other netizens are uploading posts acknowledging their support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-netizens-man-virtual-bastion-as-farmers-protest/articleshow/79574744.cms||IP Singh
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ‘Outsider’ Bandi Sanjay Kumar powers BJP ‘bandi’||HYDERABAD: Bandi Sanjay Kumar was branded as an outsider by his own partymen and rival party leaders. But with the BJP bagging 48 seats in Greater Hyderabad elections and by far securing the biggest haul of seats in any election in Telangana and even when AP was united, the 49-year-old firebrand leader has now become the most popular face of BJP. During the intense campaign for the GHMC polls, TPCC chief N Utam Kumar Reddy, who quit on Friday, said Sanjay was an outsider who has no clue about Hyderabad and claimed the BJP has very little chance to make inroads in Hyderabad. A similar sentiment echoed within the BJP ranks when Sanjay took over the party reins in March this year with questions asked about his “not from the city” lineage. He hails from Karimnagar in north Telangana. Sanjay proved people wrong in short timeTraditionally, the BJP has been led by leaders from the city such as Bandaru Dattatreya, G Kishan Reddy and Dr K Laxman. Doubts were also expressed if Sanjay can get along with seniors and win the hearts of newcomers joining the saffron party from other parties. But Sanjay proved everybody wrong by handing out the biggest victory to the BJP in his brief tenure as party chief. “A vehicle in Telugu is called ‘bandi’. Our Bandi has driven the party to the victory podium,” a party leader said. Under his leadership, the BJP has opened up completely as a party for Hindus. His constant playing of Hindutva card, strong and aggressive posturing during the poll campaign and daring CM KCR to come down to Bhagyalakshmi temple at Charminar for a public debate became the rage on social media. Though BJP MLA T Raja Singh was known for his anti-Muslim remarks, Sanjay emerged as a more aggressive leader with his pro-Hindu stand. Sanjay unsuccessfully contested in Dec 2018 as an MLA from Karimnagar constituency but secured 66,000 votes, which was the highest number of votes secured by a BJP contestant. He didn’t lose hope and contested the Karimnagar Lok Sabha seat (a stronghold of TRS) in 2019 and trumped TRS candidate B Vinod Kumar. Having been a municipal corporator from Karimnagar thrice, Sanjay had contested in 2014 assembly elections also but ended up as a loser. Bandi was also active in the RSS as a youth leader, joining the organisation when he was just 12. He had worked as a party affairs in-charge in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. He was also the vehicle in-charge for BJP veteran leader LK Advani during his Suraj Rath Yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/outsider-sanjay-powers-bjp-bandi/articleshow/79574440.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AAP alleges corruption rampant in corporations||NEW DELHI: After Central Bureau of Investigation arrested BJP councillor Manoj Mehlawat in a bribery case, Aam Aadmi Party hit out at BJP on Friday. Its MLA and spokesperson, Saurabh Bharadwaj, alleged that there was all-pervading corruption in the building departments of BJP-led municipal corporations. He demanded that BJP should immediately come clean on who all were benefiting from the financial loot. Addressing a press conference, Bharadwaj alleged the councillor was negotiating for a bribe with a person who was building a house in Vasant Kunj. “The person complained to CBI and the agency laid a trap. On Thursday evening, the BJP councillor was arrested red-handed. The CBI found that he was taking a bribe of Rs 10 lakh,” he claimed. He alleged the Centre had come down heavily on CBI and, therefore, the agency had not issued a press release. He alleged that the BJP leadership knew about such illegal financial transactions and could even be benefiting from it. AAP has planned 181 press conferences to expose corruption in the BJP-led civic bodies. This was the seventh in the series. “The BJP-led corporations work as a team with the building mafia. To protect this mafia, the corporations have developed the building bylaws in Delhi. These bylaws are highly complicated and to build a house following these bylaws is next to impossible. If someone does not like to resort to illegal means to build their house, then that house will never see the light of day. Without bribing corporation officials in Delhi, one cannot build a house,” he said at the press meet. “This collection by the corporations happens in a very coordinated manner. Every area of Delhi has different rates,” he said, alleging that the money goes right up to the top in the civic bodies and beldars were the collection agents. “If no bribe is given, then notices will go out from the corporations and the house will be sealed. It could then face demolition,” said Bharadwaj. In the 2017 municipal elections, BJP had replaced all the sitting councillors with new faces. Bharadwaj said the decision was taken because the sitting councillors were corrupt. But the new councillors were no better, he said. Reacting to Bharadwaj’s allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor pointed out that BJP had immediately suspended the councillor on the basis of a preliminary report because his party has zero-tolerance for corruption. “BJP does not hesitate in taking action against corruption unlike AAP which is yet to take any action against its MLA in the water tanker scam,” said Kapoor. SDMC leader of House Narendra Chawla said he suspected that the councillor was trapped or targeted just to malign his image. “Let the CBI investigate the matter. Only then we will be able to comment further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-alleges-corruption-rampant-in-corporations/articleshow/79573978.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||1,038 villages along Ganga to be made self-sufficient: Minister||LUCKNOW: Jal shakti minister Mahendra Singh has directed departments related to Namami Ganga Mission to chalk out development plans on priority basis to make all 1,038 revenue villages of 27 districts along the Ganga self-sufficient under the National Clean Ganga Mission. Presiding over a review meeting here on Friday, the minister said that the state government was committed to fulfil the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “Ma Ganga can be a big help in strengthening state’s economy. The work plan designed to fulfil concept of ‘Earth Ganga’ should be expedited,” he said. Under the National Clean Ganga Mission, 21 urban areas, 1,641 villages and 1038 gram panchayats along the Ganga have been connected. The river can be made pollution free by developing these areas under the Ganga Mission Action Plan, Singh said. The religious, cultural and spiritual sites located at the Ganga ghats have to be developed in view of the immense possibilities of tourism on both sides of the river. An action plan should also be chalked out to keep the Ganga land free from encroachments, he added. He said the ponds on the banks of Ganga should be renovated and beautified. “In order to keep the river free from pollution, chemical fertilizers should not be used at all within a radius of five km. Organic farming, natural farming and horticulture should be promoted. Farmers should be motivated to plant more and more fruit trees”, the minister advised. Additional chief secretary, irrigation, T Venkatesh, additional chief secretary, revenue, Renuka Kumar, principal secretary, Namami Gange, Anurag Shrivastava and senior officials of the departments were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1038-villages-along-ganga-to-be-made-self-sufficient-min/articleshow/79573984.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP’s Pune bastion falls for 1st time in almost 2 decades||Pune: The BJP has faced defeat in Pune graduates’ constituency for the first time since 2002, a loss that would not sit easy with the party. Senior party leaders had campaigned hard for their candidate Sangram Deshmukh but still could not pull a win. The party’s nominee in the teachers’ constituency, Jitendra Pawar, was also trailing in the counting on Friday evening. NCP candidate Arun Lad defeated Deshmukh with an impressive margin of around 50,000 votes. Lad had the backing of the Maha Vikas Aaghadi combine of NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena. Lad got 1,22,145 votes as against 73,321 votes secured by Deshmukh.BJP was banking on independent candidate Shrimant Kokate, who had sought NCP nomination, to make a dent in the MVA votes. Kokate got only 6,572 votes. Sharad Patil of Janata Dal got 4,279 votes, while Roopal Patil Thombare of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena secured 6,313 votes. A section of BJP was upset with Deshmukh’s nomination as he was considered an “outsider”. Deshmukh is from Sangli district. BJP leaders admitted in private that the result would have been different had the party nominated a candidate from Pune city. Among the five districts where voting took place for the seat, Pune district recorded the lowest turnout despite having the highest number of voters. Kolhapur district had reported the highest voter turnout on Tuesday. Congress’s Jayant Aasgaonkar had established a comfortable lead in the teachers’ constituency and looked set to emerge as the winner.Defeat in both the constituencies came as a big shock for BJP. The graduates’ constituency was represented by stalwarts like late Prof G P Pradhan. BJP’s Narayan Vaidya succeeded Pradhan. Vaidya was replaced by Jawdekar, who represented the constituency for two successive terms till 2002. In 2002, Prakash Jawdekar was defeated by Sharad Patil of Janata Dal (Secular). Later, state party president Chandrakant Patil also represented the constituency for two consecutive terms. The seat was vacated after Patil won the assembly election from Pune last year. Hours after the results were announced on Friday, Patil came under severe attack from the leaders of Maha Vikas Aaghadi. Lad sarcastically remarked that he won the election because of Patil. Patil’s win from Kothrud constituency in Pune had left a sour taste in the mouth of Pune residents, who felt that the then sitting BP MLA Medha Kulkarni should have been given renomination from BJP. Patil, a resident of Kolhapur, was then termed an outsider but managed to win the seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjps-pune-bastion-falls-for-1st-time-in-almost-2-decades/articleshow/79570650.cms||Satyajit Joshi
December 5, 2020||Kolhapur||No deaths recorded in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district reported 22 fresh Covid-19 patients and zero deaths since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 49,132. The death toll has now risen to 1687. As many as 41 patients were discharged after recovery. A total of 47,156 patients have recovered so far. According to the official information, Kolhapur city added six patients, taking the total number of cases to 14,941. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 40 fresh patient and one Covid death on Friday. The number of cases rose to 46,952, of them 44,851 have recovered and 1701 have succumbed to Covid. The district has 400 active patients and of them 89 are critical. Solapur district, comprising the city and rural parts, reported 138 fresh Covid-19 cases while 257 patients were discharged after recovering since Thursday late night. Six deaths have also been reported in the district. Officials said 121 people tested positive in the rural areas while 219 patients were discharged . All the deceased, including a man and two women, were elderly. Deaths were reported in Malshiras, South Solapur and Sangola. Solapur rural has reported 36,010 patients so far, of them, 1050 have died and 33,427 have recovered from Covid. In Solapur rural, around 3.35 lakh people have undergone Covid test and almost all of them have tested negative. Solapur city reported 17 new cases while 38 patients recovered since Thursday late night. The city has recorded three deaths, which includes two men and a woman. Solapur city has a total of 10,490 patients, of them, 567 have died and 9,525 have recovered.  Satara district has recorded 137 new Covid patients and one death due to the infection since Thursday late night, taking the total number of cases to 51,659. The death toll has now risen to 1,726. As many as 49,155 have recovered from the contagion. Six tehsils in the district have reported fresh cases in single digit. According to official information, a 62-year-old man from Mahabaleshwar tehsil succumbed to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-deaths-recorded-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/79570643.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ludhiana||Ravneet Singh Bittu calls Kangana Ranaut ‘rotten apple from Himachal Pradesh’||LUDHIANA: Quoting an old tweet of Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu against actor singer Diljit Dosanjh in their ongoing social media spat backfired for actor Kangana Ranaut. Warning her against intefering in matters concerning him and Dosanjh, Bittu described her as a “rotten apple of Himachal”. Tagging Dosanjh in his tweet, he said they are united in the cause of Punjab.  On Thursday evening, Kangana used an old tweet of Bittu, in which he had urged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to lodge an FIR against Diljit Dosanjh and others for allegedly supporting Pannu and Sikhs for demand for Khalistan. Quoting Bittu’s tweet, she commented, “This is ruling party leader from Punjab jo in antnkiyo ki pol khol rha, this is what they have to say about KJO chaploos aur baki antanki jo desh ke tukde karna chahte hain (MP Bittu is exposing the terrorists and this is what he has to say about KJO (Karan Johar)’s chaploos (Diljeet Dosanjh) and rest of the terrorists who want to break up our country).”  Commenting on her “waning popularity” in the wake of her comments, Bittu said she should focus on acting rather than politics. Watch Kangana Ranaut-Diljit Dosanjh's Twitter spat: Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu calls the actress 'rotten apple of Himachal'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-calls-kangana-rotten-apple-from-hp/articleshow/79574746.cms||Mohit Behl
December 5, 2020||Goa||Mining will restart within 6 months: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that mining activities in the state will resume within the next six months after weighing all options including auctioning of leases, provided there are no legal issues. Sawant held a meeting on Thursday with Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi, mines secretary, members of the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association (GMOEA) and others in Delhi. Speaking to mediapersons, Sawant said, “both Centre and state have started adopting measures to restart mining. We have fast-tracked on this front. Now there is a day-to-day correspondence between the directorate of mines and geology, Goa and the ministry of mines over mining resumption... I am confident that mining will resume in the state within six months. We are following all measures to avoid any legal hurdles,” he said. Sawant also said that he has been following the matter since the last 18 months on a daily basis. Joshi on Thursday had proposed that the mining leases in the state be auctioned. Ore exporters, however, had opposed the move and instead sought an amendment to the law so that mining can continue in Goa till 2037. During the meeting, Joshi asked Sawant and GMOEA to explain why leases should not be auctioned in Goa and told them to make more submissions if they want. GMOEA explained the issue to the minister. Joshi assured to take necessary steps to restart mining in the state. He had said that the government would expedite the auction process. “GMOEA told the mines minister about the problem that would be faced if leases were auctioned and said it would delay resumption of mining activities,” Sawant had told TOI. He had said that he had requested the Union minister to take necessary steps to restart mining in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mining-will-restart-within-6-months-cm/articleshow/79572874.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||AAP Goa founder Elvis Gomes quits, says party controlled from Delhi||PANAJI: In a major setback to Aam Admi Party (AAP) in Goa, Elvis Gomes, the party’s founder-convener in the state and who was the chief ministerial candidate for the 2017 assembly polls, resigned from the primary membership of the party on Friday alleging that it was being controlled by a ‘high command culture’ from Delhi and had compromised on its core principles. Gomes said he would contest the next assembly elections in 2022 from Cuncolim constituency but declined to confirm which party he would join. Gomes had quit the Goa administration as senior scale officer in October 2016 to take over as AAP’s state convener. He resigned as convener of the party two months ago. “It’s not a decision taken in haste. It’s a well thought out decision over the past two months. AAP core team members, who had worked hard to build the party for the past four years, have resigned,” Gomes said. Besides Gomes, other AAP functionaries who resigned from the primary membership of the party include Sidharth Karapurkar, the party’s convener on environment, former Nuvem constituency cooridnator Ramiro Mascarenhas, Rodney Almeida, Sudin Mauzo, Ilma Dias, Rosario Fernandes (Benaulim). Gomes said after the last Delhi election, a team from Delhi was stationed in Goa, which raised doubts on the autonomy of the Goa unit. “When there was a doubt whether Goa unit and Goans had the freedom to take up issues or it was directed by somebody from outside, we resigned from our posts,” he said. “We are here to work for the people. Our loyalty is for Goa and Goans. We will always take up the state issues,” he said, adding that people who had joined AAP with high hopes for a new political system have been disillusioned. “We had not joined AAP to take forward somebody else’s agenda,” said Gomes, who at one time was president of Goa Football Association. Gomes, who was recently selected to be elevated to IAS cadre nearly four years after he had quit the government service, said that the party had lately deviated from its ideology. He advised AAP volunteers, who want to continue with the party, to remain vigilant. “People of Goa should decide whether AAP has future in Goa or not,” he Former general secretary Pradeep Padgaonkar said that the party suddenly thought of appointing people on the basis of their religion and caste. “This was never the case in Goa”, he said. He said the party had lately compromised on its core principles of three Cs - communalism, corruption and criminalization Gomes said that "we will support 21 AAP candidates for Zilla Panchayat on personal level". Gomes said that political parties have approached him, but no decision has been taken. “Me joining Congress from Cuncolim is just a speculation and I have not taken any decision,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/elvis-gomes-quits-aap-says-party-controlled-from-delhi/articleshow/79572853.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: BJP councillor from Vasant Kunj arrested by CBI on bribery charge||NEW DELHI: The BJP councillor from Vasant Kunj, Manoj Mehlawat, was arrested by CBI in a bribery case on Thursday. Following his arrest, Delhi BJP suspended him from the primary membership of the party. While CBI didn’t share any details or issue a statement, sources said the action was taken on the basis of a complaint in which it was alleged that Mehlawat had asked for a bribe of Rs 10 lakh to allow illegal construction work. The complainant, a builder, was constructing a house without permission, sources added. Sources said the bribe was allegedly to be paid to a municipal officer. The money was initially demanded by an associate of the councillor, but the builder insisted that he would pay it directly to Mehlawat. After the time was fixed for payment on Thursday, the builder lodged a complaint with CBI. The agency sleuths laid a trap and nabbed the accused red-handed while accepting the bribe. CBI also conducted a search of his house. Subsequently, the accused was produced before a special court where CBI sought a police remand. However, the court sent him in judicial custody to Tihar Jail on Friday. An FIR under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act has been lodged against the councillor. A probe is on to find out if money was to be paid to his associates too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-councillor-arrested-by-cbi-on-bribery-charge/articleshow/79573993.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Alternative medical colleges to be linked to Ayush varsity: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: The proposed Uttar Pradesh Ayush University in Gorakhpur is likely to be made functional from the 2021-22 session and all ayurveda, unani, homeopathy, yoga and naturopathy colleges in the state will be affiliated to it, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Directing officials to make the completion of the Ayush University a priority, the CM said: “The foundation stone for the university will be laid in the second half of January 2021. All the pre-foundation procedures should be completed without delay so that construction work can start immediately.” PWD has allocated a budget of Rs 299.87 crore for the construction of the university. The CM has said that construction should be done in such a way that affiliation of colleges and other administrative work in the Ayush University starts from the 2021-22 session while the teaching session should start from 2022-23. Based on the timeline set by PWD, the construction of the administrative building, information and evaluation center, hospital building and residential block will be completed by December 2021. The academic block and hostel will be get completed by June 2022 and the guest house, auditorium and other works are scheduled to be taken up in the third phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/alternative-medical-colleges-to-be-linked-to-ayush-varsity-cm/articleshow/79573992.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kochi||Lakshadweep administrator Sharma no more||KOCHI: Lakshadweep administrator Dineshwar Sharma, who was the former interlocutor for Jammu and Kashmir and served as the director of the Intelligence Bureau, passed away on Friday. Sharma, IPS (retd), assumed the charge as the 36th administrator of the Union Territory of Lakshadweep on November 1, 2019. Prime minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to Sharma on his passing. “…Sharma Ji made long-lasting contributions to India’s policing and security apparatus. He handled many sensitive counter-terror and insurgency ops during his policing career. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” the prime minister tweeted. “Deeply anguished… He served the nation with utmost devotion as a dedicated officer... My heartfelt condolences to his family in this hour of grief. Om Shanti,” tweeted home minister Amit Shah. Sharma was under treatment at a hospital in Chennai for sometime. A 1979 Kerala cadre IPS officer, Sharma joined the Intelligence Bureau as assistant director in January 1991. Sharma was awarded the prestigious Indian Police Medal for meritorious service in 1997 followed by the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service in 2003. He is survived by wife Manju and a son and daughter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lakshadweep-administrator-sharma-no-more/articleshow/79570659.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Fewer Covid deaths, higher recoveries in 4 districts||Kolhapur: The four districts of western Maharashtra — Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Solapur— have witnessed a fewer number of fresh cases, decline in number of deaths and increase in the number of patients recovering at the beginning of December. Rural areas in Solapur and Satara district continue to show less signs of recovery compared to Sangli and Kolhapur. However, the number of cases reported daily has reduced considerably compared to last month, official data shows. Kolhapur district has recorded 51 cases in the past three days. The number of new cases in Hatkanangale, Karveer and Shirol tehsils of Kolhapur district has reduced. In Sangli district, 129 new cases have been reported since December 1. Rural areas in Solapur and Satara districts, however, continue to cross the three-digit mark of new cases. Solapur rural has recorded 407 cases in the past three days while. Satara district has added 375 cases. Solapur city has also shown remarkable recovery as it has recorded 86 new cases while 92 patients recovered since the beginning of December. Two deaths were reported in the city. The number of patients discharged has increased in four districts while the deaths have decreased. Kolhapur district has registered eight deaths while Sangli reported three deaths. In Solapur rural, seven people succumbed to Covid. Meanwhile, in Kolhapur, 133 patients recovered from Covid while 568 patients recovered in Satara district in the past three days. In Solapur rural, 520 patients were discharged. The number of new cases in rural parts of Kolhapur and Sangli has come down considerably. Of the 11 tehsils in Kolhapur district, the majority have shown cases in a single digit. In Sangli district, Walva and Aatpadi tehsils continue to find new patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fewer-covid-deaths-higher-recoveries-in-4-districts/articleshow/79570660.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||CISCE awaits govt nod for January 4 reopening; Kendriya Vidyalayas in Bengal discontinue on-campus classes||KOLKATA: While the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) has requested chief minister Mamata Banerjee to reopen schools from January 4, several Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) in Bengal, affiliated to the CBSE, have reverted to online classes after reopening their campuses for “doubt-clearing sessions” without the state government’s permission. Students, as a result, have been left confused. “Many of us could not attend online classes. We also have not been able to write our pre-board exams. Now, if we take the HS Exam without ever attending the practical classes, it will be a disaster. We hope that some doubt-clearing sessions and practical classes will be conducted before the board exams are announced,” said Kritee Dey, a Class-XII student of KBR Girls’ High School. Kritee’s views are echoed by Supratik Pal of Howrah Zilla School. The Class-XII student said: “Online classes couldn’t clear our doubts. Moreover, we couldn’t take the test exam and could not assess our preparation. So far as practical classes are concerned, we are yet to know the results of many experiments which are necessary for higher studies,” Pal said. In October, a Kendriya Vidyalaya had held a meeting with parents and sent online consent forms to guardians of students of classes IX and XII seeking their opinion on holding physical classes. A timetable was drawn up to hold doubt-clearing sessions. But after the Puja vacations, the state government had instructed all schools to keep their campuses closed. “Thus, we also went back to the online classes. Now, we are waiting for further instructions from the state,” said the principal of the school. CISCE-affiliated schools are, however, eagerly waiting for a nod from the state government. “We have already purchased no-contact temperature guns, we also have ordered for hand sanitizers to be fixed at several points. These apart, we have also bought hundreds of masks which we can distribute to the students,” said the principal of Ram Mohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas. He added that along with the SOPs provided by the centre, the schools are also waiting for the directives from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisce-awaits-govt-nod-for-jan-4-reopening-kvs-in-bengal-discontinue-on-campus-classes/articleshow/79572827.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Bad air in Delhi: Narela and Anand Vihar big concerns||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Friday identified Narela, Anand Vihar, Mundka, Dwarka and Punjabi Bagh as areas of high concern in relation to air pollution. Maximum pollution-related violations were occurring at these locations, it stated. Track the pollution level in your cityCPCB, in a letter based on feedback gathered by 50 teams that it had deployed in the field since October 15, 2020, said the major sources of pollution recorded at each of these locations were open dumping of garbage, construction and demolition waste, unpaved roads and re-suspension of dust. It asked agencies to take all necessary actions to control emissions from local sources. CPCB’s inspections also found that five out of Delhi’s 11 districts were recording a chunk of complaints and pollution-related violations. These include South, South-West, North, North-West and North-East districts. In NCR, Faridabad, Jhajjar, Noida and Bhiwadi have been found to be areas of concern. “As per the analysis and number of complaints received, South, South-West, North, North-West and North-East districts of Delhi, Jhajjar, Bhiwadi, Gurugram North, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Noida in NCR are the areas that need actions to control air pollution due to construction/demolition activity, open dumping of garbage, road dust and industrial emissions,” said CPCB in the letter. It has also directed agencies to address complaints related to these problems on SAMEER app, which allows people to file pollution-related complaints directly with CPCB. Users can take a photograph of the violation, attach a video and also geo-tag the location to allow agencies to identify the violation easily on the map. Last year, CPCB and DPCC had identified 13 pollution hotspots in Delhi, based on higher ambient PM 2.5 levels than the city average. The hotspots are Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, R K Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bad-air-narela-and-anand-vihar-big-concerns/articleshow/79574032.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Government formulating policies to promote traditional industries & ODOP: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated a new building for the Chamber of Industries in Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority’s industrial sector on Friday. He also planted a sapling in the GIDA premises during the function. Identifying the Chamber of Industries as the main organization for industrial growth in eastern UP, the CM said the demand for a building for the body was raised in 1989. “Traditional industries are the basis of major investment. The state government has formulated policies to develop them. Under the ODOP programme, Gorakhpur’s terracotta work has been identified for development and the government has rolled out programmes to develop the industry and provide it with a market, both national and international,” he said. The CM has given directions to GIDA to create a land bank for establishment of industries. He said that Gorakhpur has immense possibilities for industrial development. To ensure an investor friendly environment, problems of investors must be sorted out within a set time frame. Bankers should be linked with businesses for easy loans and financing while rules and regulations should be simplified. Along with development of industries, employment should also be generated and all processes for permissions, making allocations etc should be made online. The Gorakhpur divisional commissioner said that 300 acre land had been identified for industrial development in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-formulating-policies-to-promote-traditional-industries-odop-yogi/articleshow/79573998.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS fell short by 20-25 seats: Telangana minister KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: TRS working president and IT minister KT Rama Rao on Friday admitted that the GHMC election results were not on the expected lines for his party. With the pink party ending up with 55 seats, KTR told the media, “We thought the party would get 20 to 25 seats more than what we had got now. But in about 10 to 12 seats, the TRS candidates lost to the BJP by narrow margins.” KTR said that in BN Reddy Nagar the TRS lost the seat by a margin of 32 votes, 178 votes in Malkajgiri, 227 in Adikmet, 279 votes in Hasthinapuram, 287 votes in Vinayakanagar and 310 votes in Ramgopalpet. He said all the exit polls had given a comfortable majority to the TRS. “We will discuss the results and reasons for losing some seats in the party meeting soon,” KTR said. While thanking those who voted for the party and leaders who strived hard for the past 20 days in the campaign and social media warriors, he said that TRS has emerged as the single-largest party though the results were a disappointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-fell-short-by-20-25-seats-ktr/articleshow/79574445.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Principals to answer fee queries this weekend||Kolkata: Most schools are either keeping accounts sections open or will have a team of officials headed by the principals, who would remain accessible to parents over the weekend for last-minute payments, inquiries and requests regarding fees. By end of Friday, most schools said they have managed to collect 75% to 80% arrears. The payment deadline, as per the HC order, was November 30 and schools are permitted to strike off kids’ names from online classes from December 8. Schools hope to recover a sizeable part of arrears by Sunday, before the Supreme Court hears a plea for extension of deadline on Monday. The same day, the High Court will hear compliance submissions from schools. South Point School will keep functioning over the weekend. “We will take a final call on the matter of defaulting parents on Sunday and announce it on our website,” said spokesperson of the school. The same applies for M P Birla School as well, which is run by the same group. Even the principals are gearing up for a busy weekend, preparing to check the final defaulters’ list and getting ready to answer queries. On Friday, many parents paid up or inquired regarding their specific outstanding amounts vis a vis court order. “It’s a matter of difference in perception between us and the parents. But, happily, 80% have paid up and over the weekend our principals will be ready to quell doubts,” said spokesperson of Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls School, Brigadier V N Chaturvedi. Shri Shikshayatan School has already received 75% payments and expects a sizeable chunk to come in over the weekend. To address queries, mobile numbers of key accounts officials have been provided on website. “We will make a final tally on Monday to see if we are inching forward,” said spokesperson Bratati Bhattacharya. For the past 15 days, officials led by the principal of Calcutta Girls School have worked every single day, sitting with payment slips that parents were supposed to collect and make payments in banks. They will continue to do this Saturday also. “Still, there are 20% parents who have not collected slips. We will keep taking payments through the winter vacations and if we see that there are parents who have still not paid up, we will strike their names off when the school re-opens,” said an official. The La Martiniere schools have also managed to collect 85% of the arrears till now. Petitioner Vineet Ruia, who has filed an interlocutory application in the SC requesting a deadline extension, has also filed a contempt against schools in apex court stating that many have merged other heads under tuition fees. This too will be heard on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/principals-to-answer-fee-queries-this-weekend/articleshow/79572861.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 5, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur woman sends video of suicide plan, ends life||KOLHAPUR: A 25-year-old woman from Kolhapur city sent a message to her friends about her plan to end her life but before anyone could intervene, she had taken the extreme step on Thursday. The police have identified the woman as Dhanshree Appa Jadhav, who was originally from Ajara in Kolhapur district and had shifted to Kolhapur city a few years back. Police have found a diary and a mobile phone from her house. The notes from her diary indicate that the woman was experiencing depression for the past few days. Investigation also reveals that the woman had made a video record of herself before ending her life and sent it to some of her friends. One of her friend rushed to her residence after he received the video clip from Dhanshree. He alerted the landlord but they found her hanging from the ceiling fan. The Karveer police rushed to the spot when the landlord, Uday Palkar, alerted them. Police said that Dhanshree was working with a bank in marketing credit cards. Police said that Dhanshree was married two years back and was living separately for the past few months. She is survived by father, mother and a son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/woman-sends-video-of-suicide-plan-ends-life/articleshow/79570666.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||CM: ZP polls likely to be held this month||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the zilla panchayat elections are likely to be held this month. Speaking to reporters Sawant said that the dates have been recommended to the state election commission (SEC) and SEC will announce the dates. “SEC has said that the elections will be held soon and I am sure it will be held in December itself,” the chief minister said. Panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho on Wednesday proposed two probable dates to the chief minister for the zilla panchayat elections. “The election commission had given me the files and accordingly I have proposed January 9 and 16, 2021, both being Saturdays,” he said. “The final decision will be taken by the chief minister in consultation with the state election commission and me,” Godinho said. The SEC, at a meeting held on Tuesday with Goa Police and both district collectors, decided to hold the zilla panchayat polls this month or in January in consultation with the government. The elections were initially scheduled for March 15, but the state government postponed them to March 22 due to the threat of Covid-19. However on March 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for the imposition of a ‘Janata curfew’ two days later, prompting the state government to push the elections to March 24. Despite strong protests from people, Sawant was firm on holding the elections on March 24. But only after Modi intervened and asked Sawant to defer the polls did the state government decide to postpone them indefinitely. The five-year term of the zilla panchayats ended on March 23 this year, before which the new body had to be in place. A total of 203 candidates are contesting the elections for the two local bodies — south and north Goa zilla panchayats — each comprising 25 constituencies. BJP has fielded candidates for 43 seats, while Congress has fielded candidates for 38 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-zp-polls-likely-to-be-held-this-month/articleshow/79572904.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Mumbai||MLC polls: Jolt for BJP, MVA wins four of six seats||MUMBAI: BJP in Maharashtra suffered a jolt on Friday as MVA won four out of the six state Legislative Council seats to which elections were held on December 1, reports Prafulla Marpakwar.  Of the five MLC seats of graduates’ and teachers’ constituencies, MVA won 4 and BJP none; the solitary seat it won was in the Council bypoll to the Dhule-Nandurbar local body. One seat—Amravati division teachers’ constituency —was won by an independent candidate, with Shiv Sena coming in second and BJP third. The boost for MVA was made more significant by its win in the Nagpur teachers’ constituency held by BJP for over five decades. The biennial council elections were of importance to it as it was the first time the alliance of three parties – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – was contesting elections under the MVA banner. Though Sena did not secure the lone seat (Amravati) it contested, the victory was seen as vital for CM Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership. Three graduates’ constituencies, two teachers’ constituencies and one local bodies seat had gone to the polls. Congress won Nagpur (graduates) and Pune (teachers), while NCP won Aurangabad and Pune (both graduates’ constituencies). In Nagpur, the hometown of BJP leaders like Nitin Gadkari and Devendra Fadnavis, Congress nominee Abhijeet Wanjari defeated BJP’s Sandeep Joshi by a margin of 18,710 votes. As per the records of the legislative council, Ramjeevan Choudhary of Jan Sangh was elected from there in 1971, followed by Devendra Fadnavis’ father Gangadharrao, who represented the seat for two terms. Gadkari later represented the constituency for 25 years and after his election to the Lok Sabha in 2014, he was replaced by Anil Sole, a former mayor of Nagpur. For the 2020 elections, Sole was denied nomination and replaced by Joshi, a trusted aide of Fadnavis. Wanjari polled 61,701 votes as against 42,991 by Joshi. Congress cabinet members Balasaheb Thorat, Nitin Raut, Anil Deshmukh and Sunil Kedar drafted the MVA strategy in Nagpur. BJP also lost the Pune graduates’ constituency, which was earlier represented by state BJP president Chandrakant Patil. NCP’s Arun Lad there defeated BJP’s Sangram Deshmukh by a margin of 48,824 votes. In the Pune teachers’ constituency, Congress’ Jayant Asgaonkar defeated independent candidate Datta Sawant, a sitting legislator, while BJP nominee Jeetendra Pawar was relegated to the third position. In the Amravati division teachers’ constituency, independent candidate Arun Sarnaik defeated Sena nominee Shrikant Deshpande, while BJP’s Nitin Dhande was pushed to the third position. In the Aurangabad graduates’ constituency, NCP’s Satish Chavan defeated BJP’s Shirish Boralkar, winning the seat for the third consecutive time. The result of the Dhule-Nandurbar legislative council byelection was declared earlier, on Thursday evening. BJP candidate Amrish Patel won the seat with 332 votes against Congress’ Abhijeet Patil, who managed to get only 98 votes. A total of 434 of 437 voters exercised their franchise in the Dhule-Nandurbar bypoll, which was held as Amrish Patel resigned as MLC last year after he quit Congress to join BJP. By registering this victory, he won the MLC polls for the third time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mlc-polls-jolt-for-bjp-mva-wins-4-of-6-seats/articleshow/79574034.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||‘Invest UP’ to hire professionals to boost efficiency||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh’s investment promotion and facilitation agency, Invest UP, will be hiring a team of 44 professionals for efficient management of the organization. Alok Kumar, additional chief secretary, (infrastructure and industrial development) said that this was a first of its kind initiative when highly qualified professionals from the fields of business and management were being hired for a department to ensure seamless integration of investment promotion and facilitation streams. “We have started the process to professionalize Invest UP in the right earnest. It is proposed to hire n 44 professionals to enhance the efficiency of services for investors and industrialists. In the first phase, five qualified persons will be recruited, including a chief operating officer (COO) to lead the investment promotion functions of the agency under the guidance of the chief executive officer,” said Kumar, who is also the member secretary of the governing board of Invest Uttar Pradesh. He added that the appointment and removal of the COO would have to be approved by the chief minister, who is the chairperson of the governing board. The COO must hold a post graduate management degree from a tier-1 Indian or global institute with at least 15 years of experience. A selection criteria has also been specified for the position of one division head, two sector cluster heads and a manager-NCR. “To ensure that we are able to hire the best of talent in the market and exceptionally qualified individuals, the government has decided to offer market driven remuneration to the selected candidates,” Kumar said. Invest UP was set up in June 2020 as a dedicated agency to promote investment in the state.  The agency provides support to potential investors and acts as the interface between various government departments and the investors to foster the investor friendly environment in the State. Invest UP has been mandated to focus on investment promotion and facilitation to provide complete support to investors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/invest-up-to-hire-professionals-to-boost-efficiency/articleshow/79574038.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 5, 2020||Goa||Tourism in blues as Canacona coast turns ‘green zone’||Poinguinim: After the Agonda coast turned green due to algal blooms, it is now the turn of nearly the entire Canacona taluka coastline. Besides, the stench emanating from the water, the numerous dead jellyfish being washed ashore are also keeping locals and tourists away from the sea. Locals said that it is the first time they have seen the seawater along the Canacona coast turn green, an event being attributed to climate change-related algal blooms by scientists from the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO). Over the past three days, people have reported seawater turning a leafy green and foamy at Palolem, Patnem, Colomb, Rajbhag, besides Agonda, in Canacona taluka. This has deterred tourists from venturing into the sea. A group of tourists from Kolhapur said they have been frequenting the beaches in Canacona over the years, but have witnessed such a phenomenon for the first time. Simon Rebello, who runs a tourism-related business at Palolem for many years now, said he had never before seen the sea turn green and foamy and give out a foul smell as seen in the recent days. “Though it took everyone by surprise at first, the tourists are now seen gradually returning to the beaches,” Rebello said. “The tourists have started going into the sea today. The green in the water is gradually receding and the situation is normalising. There is nothing to panic,” said another tourism stakeholder Joaquim Cardozo. However, on the Patnem-Colomb coast, the situation was far from normal as large numbers of dead jellyfish continued to keep tourists away. Lifeguards on the beach were also seen discouraging tourists from venturing into the waters and onto the beach. It may be recalled that director of NIO and scientist Sunil Kumar Singh had said that the foamy green water is caused by harmful algal blooms, which are commonly seen along the Maharashtra and Karnataka coast. “It’s because of green Noctiluca Scintillans. Though it is not toxic to humans, it reduces oxygen in seawater and hence is harmful to fish and other aquatic animals. The bad odour is due to high inter-cellular ammoniawhich is released in water when it decomposes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-in-blues-as-canacona-coast-turns-green-zone/articleshow/79572942.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Poll mark error triggers turf war between SEC, Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: An error in giving out stamping sticks to voters at some polling booths during the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC)  on Friday has snowballed into a power struggle between the State Election Commission (SEC) and the Telangana high court. The court on Friday morning suspended an SEC circular that treated as valid those votes on which the distinguishing mark was different from the traditional mark that looks like a swastika. Following a petition filed by K Anthony Reddy of BJP and K Surender, Justice A Abhishek Reddy allowed the counting to continue but directed the SEC and returning officers to maintain a separate account of the votes with a different mark. The SEC, however, filed a writ petition in the evening contending that the judge’s intervention in the election, and that when the poll process had not been completed, was contrary to the Constitution. According to the SEC, it was also against Section 71 of the GHMC Act, which states that an aggrieved person can approach an election tribunal only after the election process is over. A division bench is likely to hear the matter on Saturday. Stamping sticks given by mistakeWith the election being held on paper ballot instead of EVMs, SEC had mistakenly given out stamping sticks in some booths that did not have the mandatory mark that looks like a swastika. The authorities realised the mistake and the potential trouble this would create in a tightly fought election and replaced the sticks with the regular ones. However, the realisation came only on polling day and that too after some voters had already voted. SEC then issued a circular, asking all officials to treat as valid votes which had distinguished marks other than swastika. While suspending the circular, Justice Reddy said, “If the margin between the first and second candidates is too huge, far beyond these disputed votes, then you can declare the result. But if the difference is less than the number of disputed votes, then the disputed votes cannot be taken into account and the result cannot be declared.” According to G Vidya Sagar, senior counsel representing the SEC, the circular was a mere clarification note for returning officers. The powers vested with SEC and the returning officers to earmark methods of polling and also to define ways of declaring a vote as valid or invalid are vast and cannot be interdicted by the courts, the SEC said in its appeal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-mark-error-triggers-turf-war-between-sec-high-court/articleshow/79574447.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||Footfalls at Goa airport touch 70% of pre-Covid levels||VASCO: The strong rebound in domestic travel has propelled passenger footfalls at the Goa International Airport at Dabolim to touch 70% of the pre-Covid levels and the airport, which recorded 8 million passengers in the last financial year, expects to hit 11.2 million passengers by mid-2022. Goa Airport director Gagan Malik said that the airport handles 50 flights on weekends and 45 flights on a Tuesday, which is usually lean. “Right now international travel is not happening but in three months things may change. So keeping that in view vis-a-vis growth in aviation and footfalls in Goa, we will be able to handle 11.2 million passengers by mid-2022,” said Malik. He said that the expansion of the existing terminal building will help the Airport Authority of India (AAI) keep pace with the rapid increase in passengers. AAI has also initiated talks with the Public Works department (PWD) and the Goa Electricity department for a dedicated power line and water pipeline for the airport complex. “The basic purpose of the extension is that domestic passenger growth is fast, it is rapid and so we want to shift the domestic side to the international side and the international side to the domestic side. The reason is that we want to accommodate more passengers comfortably,” said Malik. Expansion of the terminal building will reduce the distance for the international passengers while boarding the aircraft and will also improve the on-time performance of airlines as the turnaround time will be faster. “The passenger inflow will keep increasing. If we have to keep pace with this, we need to expand our infrastructure, increase check-in counters, increase the security hold area,” said Malik. He said that construction activity will start as soon as the required approvals come for the Rs131 crore expansion. “We are in all readiness as far as starting the project is concerned but we have to go through this process. We expect that by end of January we will get the approval. We will try to finish this project by June 2022 even though the time for the project is 21 months,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/footfalls-at-goa-airport-touch-70-of-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/79572939.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 5, 2020||India||Avoid terms like ‘Khalistani’ to refer to farmers: Editors Guild||NEW DELHI: The Editors Guild of India on Friday issued an advisory to the media cautioning against using terms like “Khalistanis” and “anti-nationals” to describe farmers who have been protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. In a statement, the association expressed concern about news coverage of the protests and said using such epithets without any evidence or proof to back the claims “goes against the tenets of responsible and ethical journalism”. “Such actions compromise the credibility of the media. EGI advises media organisations to display fairness, objectivity, and balance in reporting the farmers’ protests, without displaying partisanship against those who are exercising their constitutional rights to express themselves,” it said in a statement. It said media houses should not be complicit to any narrative that derogates dissent or “stereotypes protestors based on their attire and ethnicity”. The advisory follows several media reports that suggested farmers were “misled” and some pointing to the possible infiltration of Khalistani groups. Farmers have also opposed the narrative, complaining that the media coverage of their protests are biased. However, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had recently warned of a prolonged agitation being a threat to national security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/avoid-terms-like-khalistani-to-refer-to-farmers-editors-guild/articleshow/79575091.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Panchayat poll may be delayed further, voter list deadline extended||LUCKNOW: In an indication that the panchayat elections in UP may get delayed further, the state election commission (SEC) on Friday extended the deadline for final voters’ list revision from December 29 to January 22. A notification in this regard was issued by the state election commissioner Manoj Kumar. The tenure of 60,000 gram panchayats ends on December 25. After revision of the voters’ list, it will take three to four months before the polling schedule is declared. The voters’ list revision is the first step towards conducting election after which the booth level officers would execute door-to-door electoral roll verification. The delay comes amid an increase in Covid cases in some districts, specially those close to the national capital. Given the pandemic, officials associated with the exercise would be required to take preventive steps, including downloading of Aarogya Setu application, use of face masks and interacting with only one or two members of the household. The officials would also be required to avoid containment zones. The officials may visit hot spots only after the containment tag is removed by the district administration. SEC is expected to rope in around one lakh state government employees as BLOs for two lakh voting booths in 80,000 polling centres. The commission said that the voters completing the age of 18 years would be required to apply for getting their names included in the voters’ list before its final publication. District magistrates would be required to get all information related to the panchayat elections spread through media in their respective area of jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panchayat-poll-may-be-delayed-further-voter-list-deadline-extended/articleshow/79574050.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Goa||Goa fin dept nod must for spend of above Rs 2 crore||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant may have announced the withdrawal of expenditure restrictions on procurement and infrastructure projects, but the state government continues to regulate spending on purchases and development works valued at over Rs 2 crore. On November 19, Sawant announced that the austerity measures imposed on June 10, would be lifted so that recruitment and infrastructure works could resume. Just days later, on November 26, the finance department issued a circular to all departments and said that prior permission is required for all expenses worth more than Rs 2 crore. The government’s rationale behind the circular is that it will ensure “efficient utilisation” of limited funds and help the form a “qualitative appraisal” of the projects. “For better qualitative appraisal of the projects and efficient utilization of state resources, the government has decided that all proposals costing Rs 2 crore and above towards procurement of goods and services and infrastructure works shall require prior approval of this department before carrying out tender formalities,” said under secretary for finance expenditure, Premraj Shirodkar. Proposals that require expenditure sanction below Rs 2 crore will also have to be referred to the finance (expenditure) department, but only after sufficient budget provision is made, administrative approval obtained and the tender process is completed. Earlier, departments had to obtain approvals for expenditure proposals from the expenditure finance committee and the Goa state works boards. This process, said Shirodkar, will continue, but additional approval from the finance (expenditure) department will have to be sought. The chief minister recently announced that the state’s financial situation has improved and that revenue collections will touch 70% of pre-Covid levels. GST collections for Goa continue to see sluggish improvement, with the state facing a 12% shortfall in November even though the national average showed GST collections in the positive territory. The state has resorted to borrowing Rs 100 crore on a weekly basis, a departure from previous financial years where the state would sell state development bonds on a fortnightly basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-fin-dept-nod-must-for-spend-of-above-rs-2-crore/articleshow/79572955.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||Teachers from minority schools seek holiday on Jan 1||PANAJI: A group of teachers belonging to the minority schools under the Diocesan Society of Goa met education director Santosh Amonkar on Friday demanding that schools be granted a holiday on New Year’s day. The teachers said that the director has conveyed the demand to the chief minister and education minister Pramod Sawant, who has agreed to grant a holiday on January 1. “We told the director that we be granted leave on New Year’s Day as we Catholics attend the midnight mass the previous day. The director put this before the CM and he has already agreed. We want to thank them and our deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavalekar,” said teacher Farrel Furtado, leading the delegation. It may be recalled Christmas break in schools have been cut by two days during the current academic year to make up for the lost school time due to the pandemic. Diwali break was also curtailed by eight days, but one day discretionary holiday was allowed for Tulsi Vivah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/teachers-from-minority-schools-seek-holiday-on-jan-1/articleshow/79572964.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||GFP: Suspend biometric attendance for govt staff||Panaji: Goa Forward Party on Friday wrote to the state government to suspend the biometric attendance system and revert back to attendance registers to prevent government employees contracting Covid-19. The party also wrote to chief secretary Parimal Rai to restore the Deen Dayal Swasthya Seva Yojana (DDSSY) cover for government employees “One infected person using the biometric machine can infect the entire office staff and the public coming in contact with him are also likely to get infected,” convenor of GFP’s cell for private and government employees John Nazareth said. He said that a senior clerk from the North Goa Education zone, who contracted Covid-19 and subsequently passed away, had infected 12 other staff members. Nazareth said that no complaints of absenteeism or employees coming late were recorded when the biometric attendance was paused. GFP stated that in September 2017, the government had allowed government employees to opt for DDSSY.’Nazareth said that the DDSSY scheme allows government employees to avail of treatment with specialized doctors at super-speciality hospitals. Withdrawal of DDSSY cover, said Nazareth, requires government employees and their family members to spend their own money if they chose to get treated at private hospitals. Nazareth is the former president of Goa Government Employees Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-suspend-biometric-attendance-for-govt-staff/articleshow/79572975.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Goa||Intervention centres for spl kids: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said that the state government will establish early intervention centres across all talukas for early diagnosis of children suffering from different disabilities that will help in early treatment. Sawant said that the state government will establish a permanent home for disabled persons within one year. On Friday, the chief minister launched a BEd course for special education. He also inaugurated the Dnyvardhini Divyang Training College and celebrated the International Day of Persons with Disabilities at Sanjay Centre for Special Children, Porvorim. Speaking at the function, Sawant said that disabled persons will get special identity cards as well as special aids and devices. “I urge people to get persons with disabilities to the camps organised in the talukas. Within three months, we will provide special aids and devices,” he said. The camps have commenced from Friday, he added. Reacting to the demand of establishing early intervention centres at the taluka-level, Sawant said, “At present, early intervention is available at the district level. I will personally look into the issue as it is a central government project. If early intervention is done at the right time, then the disability can be treated. If the child is above five years, treatment is not possible,” the chief minister said. He also said that after treatment, a lot of children who are called as special children would be considered as normal children. “We will try to establish such centres at the level of primary health centres or community health centres,” he said, adding that Sanjay school could take the initiative as a special project with the assistance of the social welfare department. The chief minister also said that there is a need to set up a permanent home for children with various disabilities. “Within one year, we will establish a permanent disability home for such persons,” Sawant said. “Parents should not have to worry about what will happen to their children after them,” he added. He also that the state government will work to help children with disabilities, and also said that a policy will be formed to provide shops for such children who manufacture products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/intervention-centres-for-spl-kids-cm/articleshow/79573003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Short of numbers, TRS will have to seek MIM support to hold on to mayor post||Hyderabad: The ruling TRS, which fell short of the required numbers to take the mayor throne, may seek the support of AIMIM. In return, the TRS is expected to offer deputy mayor post to Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM. However TRS working president KT Rama Rao on Friday said the party has not decided anything on the mayoral candidate and its  since they have two more months to decide. TRS party sources said if the AIMIM and BJP do not field their candidates for the coveted post, the election will be completed by show of hands. “Since whip is issued in the elections by the parties for their members there is no chance of any cross-voting,” a senior TRS leader said. Though the TRS and AIMIM had friendly relations, the ruling party did not offer any post to the Majlis party after the TRS won the 2016 election with a thumping majority and did not require AIMIM’s support or that of ex-officio members. “This time, the AIMIM may extract a lot from the TRS, including sharing of the mayor post,” a source said. The TRS has emerged as the single largest party with 55 seats, but it would need 10 members’ support even after using its 31 ex-officio members’ votes. While the BJP has emerged as second largest party, it has only two ex-officio members — Kishan Reddy and T Raja Singh. TRS has 31 ex-officio membersWhile the TRS has 31 ex-officio members, the AIMIM has 10 members and BJP two. One teacher MLC (Narsi Reddy) and D Srinivas, who is technically in TRS but distanced himself from the party activities, are also ex-officio members. These members can participate in mayor and deputy mayor elections and vote. “The TRS alone has 77 ex-officio members, including MLAs, MPs (both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha) and MLCs who reside in Hyderabad and are registered with GHMC. But as many as 46 members’ votes were used in the previous municipalities and municipal corporation elections to win chairperson and mayor posts,” a party senior functionary said. For instance, Rajya Sabha MP Badugula Lingiah Yadav voted in Nereducherla municipality and another MP Banda Prakash voted in Adibatla. Some MLCs such as Gutha Sukhender Reddy and Palla Rajeshwar Reddy voted in Nalgonda municipality and Seri Subash Reddy in Nereducherla and Yegge Mallesham in Tukkuguda. Even in other parties, the situation is same. Congress MP A Revanth Reddy voted in Kompally municipality and BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao in Makthal municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/short-of-numbers-trs-will-have-to-seek-mim-support-to-hold-on-to-mayor-post/articleshow/79574464.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Woman’s body found in gunny bag in Delhi, one arrested||NEW DELHI: Body of a 20-year-old woman was found stuffed in a gunny bag at a site under construction in the Wazirabad area of north Delhi in the early hours on Friday. By the afternoon, police claimed to have arrested the alleged killer, a 27-year-old man, whose house the woman had visited on Thursday night. Police are waiting for the postmortem report to ascertain if the woman was sexually assaulted before being killed. The accused has been identified as Ashish Jha, who lives in Wazirabad and is married. The deceased was a resident of Burari. During initial probe, the cops had found that the woman was last seen with Jha. He was absconding. A senior police officer said technical surveillance was used and the location of the suspect was tracked on Aruna Asaf Ali Road from where he was arrested. “During interrogation, the accused disclosed that he was known to the woman. He said since his wife was away for the past few days, he brought the woman to his house on Thursday night,” the officer added. Jha told police that both of them had drinks together after which an argument started between them. “The argument soon turned violent and Jha thrashed the woman. He said he hit her head to the wall repeatedly and then strangled her,” the officer said. Deputy commissioner of police (North) Anto Alphonse said after a thorough interrogation, Jha was booked for the murder and was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/womans-body-found-in-gunny-bag-1-arrested/articleshow/79574053.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||Tourism dept ready to turn heat on hotels operating without permissions||PANAJI: The tourism department has begun conducting physical checks to ascertain if all hotels that have started operations have necessary approvals to resume. Teams formed by the department are examining if prior permissions were obtained by them and show cause notices were issued to those that did not, said tourism director Menino D’Souza. D’Souza said the action has been initiated after it was brought to their notice that some hotels are taking bookings illegally. Under the Disaster Management Act, which has been in force owing to the pandemic, hotels desiring to resume their activities afresh need to give an undertaking that they will comply with standard operating procedures (SOPs) for hotels issued by the central as well as the state governments. Only such hotels are given permission. As many as 1,131 hotels have been given permission by the department so far. A week ago, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar had told TOI that hotels accepting bookings illegally will have to face the music as his ministry would initiate action against such operators. D’Souza said the tourism department is required to share data on hotels that have begun with the district collectors. He said no complaints were filed against hotels for flouting SOPs, and in fact, all are enforcing the norms. Nilesh Shah, president of travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG), as well as other hoteliers had stated that bigger hotels, mostly starred, have been able to sustain themselves as tourists preferred them due to the perception that they (starred hotels) will not compromise on SOPs. A hotelier said that initially, though they suspected that many would start operations without taking permissions from the tourism department, it is not so. “Very few have done it and they are mostly with poor visibility, the smaller hotels. More importantly, hotels are not willing to take the risk when tourists inflow is less,” he said. He said even medium and small hotels that are in operation are taking precautions against the pandemic .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-ready-to-turn-heat-on-hotels-operating-without-permissions/articleshow/79573044.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 5, 2020||Goa||Covid recovery rate remains steady, active cases drop||Panaji: Goa reported 124 recoveries and 94 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, while the tally of active cases reduced to 1,387. The day saw nil Covid deaths, while the daily average of Covid deaths has been two for the past five days. On an average, 1,900 to 2,200 samples are tested every day, while on Friday, as many as 1,297 tests were conducted, pegging the positivity rate at 7%, a point more than on Thursday. A health officer said that all symptomatic persons are tested for coronavirus. Since the last fortnight, he said, fewer people have been coming forward to take the test, he said. The recovery rate has been steady at 96%. A total of 46,375 people have been cured since March. As many as 93 people who tested positive during the last 48 hours went into home isolation, and 33 had to be sent to the hospital. Five people in Panaji – two from Tonca, two from St Inez and one person from Altinho – tested positive. With five new cases, its tally increased to 85, while that of Porvorim slightly reduced to 101. Centres such as Mapusa and Chimbel have witnessed a significant drop in new infections, and their tally stood at 53 and 60 respectively. Cases reported by Margao urban health centre and Ponda primary health centre also rose, but marginally. Margao’s count was at 121 and that of Ponda at 92.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-recovery-rate-remains-steady-active-cases-drop/articleshow/79573014.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||2 arrested in Sitapur district for conversion in marriage garb: 4th FIR||LUCKNOW: In the fourth FIR since the new anti-conversion law came into force six days ago, eight persons were booked and two arrested on Friday in Sitapur district, taking total persons booked since promulgation of the ordinance to 27 and total arrests to three. Sitapur police had lodged an FIR against an unidentified person on November 26, following a complaint of kidnapping to compel marriage by father of a 19-year-old girl, Neetu, in Tambor area of the district. On Friday, provisions of the anti-conversion law were added to the case after the alleged kidnapper was identified as 22-year-old Zubrail and two in his family were arrested. Both Zubrail, who drives a van for a living and Neetu, a Class 12 passout, are missing. Station officer, Tambor, Amit Singh Bhadauriya, told TOI that complainant Sarvesh Shukla, resident of Makhubehad village, had told police his daughter, Neetu, eloped with an unknown man in the intervening night of November 24 and 25. “Based on the complaint, an FIR was lodged against an unidentified person under IPC sections of abduction to induce a woman to marriage,” he said. Later, Sarvesh, a farmer by profession, and other villagers told police Neetu had been forcefully converted to Islam and was kidnapped by a Tambor resident, Zubrail, in connivance with his family. Talking to reporters, Sarvesh said, maulvis of the village had tipped him about the forcible conversion. Zubrail had known Neetu for over a year and would often visit her house, said police. Senior police officials were informed and charges of Section 3/5 of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, were added in the case on Friday. The fresh FIR named Zubrail, his brothers Israel and Mainuddin, mother Janatun, aunt Afsarjahan and locals Rafique, Samshad, and Usman as accused. While Israel and Usman have been arrested, other family members have been detained for questioning, said Biswan circle officer, Sushil Kumar Singh. The duo was arrested as the mobile phone used by Zubrail to talk to Neetu was recovered from Usman, who lived with Israel. Since the anti-conversion law came into force, as many as four FIRs have been registered at Sitapur, Mau, Bareilly and Muzzafarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-arrested-for-conversion-in-marriage-garb-4th-fir/articleshow/79574058.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Boxing legends may return awards now||NEW DELHI: Former national boxing coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu has offered to return his Dronacharya award if the farmers’ demands are not addressed. Former boxers Kaur Singh (Arjuna and Padma Shri), a gold medalist in the 1982 Asian Games, and Jaipal Singh (Arjuna awardee), 1986 Asian Games silver medalist, have also decided to return their respective awards. “Whatever is happening is very unfortunate. This is my moral support for all those protesting against this draconian bill,” Sandhu told TOI from Patiala. Earlier this week, over 30 Punjab sportspersons had decided to return their awards. It includes former Indian basketball player and Arjuna award winner Sajjan Singh Cheema, 1980 Moscow Games gold medal-winning hockey team members Gurmail Singh and Surinder Singh Sodhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/boxing-legends-may-return-awards-now/articleshow/79575117.cms||Pratyush Raj
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Cheer after dismay over Babri acquittals: Muslims say justice upheld||AYODHYA: The Muslim community has welcomed Supreme Court’s dismissal of a petition seeking directions for nominating Central and state government representatives to Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) constituted by UP Sunni Waqf Board for constructing a mosque in Ayodhya. The petitioner had a sought similar representation as in Ram Mandir Trust. Reacting to the apex court’s Friday judgment, Zufar Ahmad Farooqi, chairman of Sunni Central Waqf Board, said, “We welcome the verdict. The apex court mandated 5acre land for building the mosque in Ayodhya and we are drawing the blueprint of the project, which will be unveiled soon. And we will seek government’s help when needed.” Athar Husain, secretary and spokesperson of Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation, said, “Justice has prevailed as the petition did not hold ground. There is no need of government representation in the Trust as the founder trustee is a government appointee. Our project will be based on ‘Sarv Dharm Sambhaav' and we will serve society through our world-class charitable hospital and community kitchen that will feed the hungry, blurring caste and religious lines. We will spread knowledge through our other educational facility and library as well.” Talking to TOI, army veteran and prominent Muslim social worker in Ayodhya and Faizabad, Captain Afzaal Ahmad Khan, said, “The community was unhappy with the Babri demolition verdict that acquitted all the accused, but Supreme Court's Friday judgment is a cause of cheer for Muslims. Now, the Trust should expedite its project with community support.” Maulana Salman Nadvi, leading Muslim cleric who had sought an out-of-court settlement for the Ayodhya title suit, said, “The Trust must be independent and there should be no government interference. The government handed over land as mandated by Supreme Court and now it’s the Trust’s discretion to decide on the mosque complex.” Khalid Rasheed Firangi Mahli, Imam of Lucknow Eidgah, said, “Sunni Central Waqf Board is a constitutional body and there was no need for government interference. The Muslim community welcomes the verdict and wishes well for the mosque project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/muslims-say-justice-upheld-cheer-after-dismay-over-babri-acquittals/articleshow/79574080.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 5, 2020||Goa||Smaller hotels feel pandemic pinch, may not open doors||Panaji: Most starred hotels have commenced operations since October and are doing reasonably well, but the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) feels that half of the hotels, basically the smaller ones, will remain shut for the season. “It will be better for them if they do not open. With footfalls being low, it will be extremely difficult to tide over the cost of operations,” TTAG president Nilesh Shah said. There are over 4,000 registered hotels, and as of Friday, Shah said as many as 1,131 hotels totalling about 26,436 rooms have started operations. He said the feedback he received so far is that starred hotels have been doing well by adjusting their pricing to attract travellers, and occupancy at most of these hotels during Diwali was satisfactory, though it has dropped now. “We expect hotel occupancy to go up again from December 15 onwards which reduced after the Diwali festival. With no hope of charter flights coming to Goa during this season due to restrictions on international commercial flights imposed by the government of India, and with an overall drop in the domestic flow, we believe half of the hotels, mostly the non-starred, will not open for the season at all,” Shah said. Savio Messias, a former TTAG president and a hotelier, said a peculiar problem the smaller hotels are facing is with recruitment of staff, especially the kitchen staff who went back to their home states during the lockdown and have not returned since then. “They are unwilling to come back; probably they are scared as they went through a bad phase during the lockdown period,” said Messias. Most of the kitchen staff, including cooks employed by the hotels in Goa, are from UP, the North Eastern States and Nepal. He said since bigger hotels dropped their room tariff bringing in it on par with other hotels, it has thrown them (smaller hotels) out of competition as they cannot withstand the price war. “It is only now that starred hotels have started raising their room tariff,” he said. As much as 70 to 80% occupancy in smaller hotels, he said, was by charter tourists with an average stay of seven to 21 days. In probability, the present season is as good as wiped out. “Even if hotels want to open to cater to domestic tourists, the occupancy for them will be less than average and it will not make economic sense to kickstart operations,” he said. Annually, Goa receives about 7 to 8 lakh foreign visitors, including 1.5 to 2 lakh charter arrivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smaller-hotels-feel-pandemic-pinch-may-not-open-doors/articleshow/79573068.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Five dead in two mishaps at same spot as van wades into crowd||Hyderabad: In two road mishaps, one after the other at the same spot, five persons were killed and about 15, including three cops, injured in Siddipet on Friday. The second accident happened after a van ploughed into cops and locals attending to victims in a car that had crashed into a culvert at the spot. At around 2 pm on Friday, B Narendar Reddy (43), an advocate from Huzurabad who was driving from Karimnagar to Hyderabad with his parents Vijaya (60) and Raji Reddy (70), crashed into the culvert near Rangeela Dhaba X Roads near Siddipet town. Crowd at accident spot hit by van“The front portion of the car was crushed and all three in the vehicle died on the spot,” Siddipet commissioner Joel Davis said. The family was coming to city to a consult a doctor for Vijaya. While Siddipet II town CI Parashuram along with his staff was getting the bodies removed from the car and the traffic was moving slowly, an approaching van veered into the crowd. About 15 persons, including CI Parashuram and two constables, suffered injuries. The van also hit the ambulance at the spot, damaging the front portion. The van driver, Avinash, abandoned the vehicle and fled from the spot. Police suspect he was either looking at his cell phone or somewhere else when the mishap occurred. The injured were rushed to nearby hospitals and two of them — V Yella Reddy (50) of Mandapally village and A Mallayya (38) of Ramunipatla village — succumbed while undergoing treatment. “Others including the three cops have been admitted to local hospitals for treatment. All three cops are out of danger. The inspector suffered an ankle fracture and the constables suffered minor injuries. One of the locals who suffered severe injuries has been shifted to a hospital in Hyderabad,” the commissioner said. A case was registered under sections 304-A, 337 and 279 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-dead-in-2-mishaps-at-same-spot-as-van-wades-into-crowd/articleshow/79574474.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Private schools ask Delhi govt for EWS dues||NEW DELHI: An umbrella body of private schools in the city has written to Delhi government asking for disbursal of their reimbursement dues under the economically weaker section (EWS) category to help them tackle financial crisis in the wake of Covid-19. “The unprecedented situation in Delhi and across the world... due to the pandemic has disrupted the whole society... Schools are equally the victim of this crisis,” stated the letter, written by the president of Action Committee of Unaided Private Recognised Schools, S K Bhattacharya, to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. “No detailed explanations are required since you are fully aware of the facts that many private schools are not in a position to meet their mandatory expenses on account of insufficient generation of funds at this hour of crisis,” added Bhattacharya. Schools have been shut since March and Delhi government has asked them not to charge anything other than tution fees on a monthly basis from April. as classes are being held online and many parents are also facing a tough time. Since April, schools have not charged various other fees, including annual and development ones.To pay the staff, the committee has requested the government to release the funds “due for a long time”. The government reimburses the schools the fees of students admitted to the unaided schools under the 25% EWS/disadvantaged group quota as per Article 12(1)(C ) of Right to Education Act 2009. Schools submit related bills and details to the government for the reimbursement. The director of the directorate of education, Udit Prakash Rai, did not respond to calls. The Leader of Opposition in the assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, has also written to the chief minister. “Members of private school delegations have told me that there has been a long delay by Delhi government in the payment of reimbursement for EWS students,” Bidhuri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-schools-ask-govt-for-ews-dues/articleshow/79574060.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Testing must in 50 metre radius of Covid patients||PRAYAGRAJ: In a bid to prevent a second Covid-19 wave, health authorities have made testing mandatory in all houses within 50 metre radius of the residence of a patient. And, if there are more than one patient, then testing of residents of all houses within 100 metre radius would be done. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “We have intensified testing in high risk areas and are focusing on densely-populated pockets.” “Once someone in any locality or apartment tests positive, health teams have been directed to test all family members and collect samples of all residents living in houses within 50 metre radius,” he added. Dr. Sahai said there are 431 containment zones in the city. “Health teams are conducting testing of around 6,000 people every day and efforts are underway to increase testing in high risk areas, even as the caseload in Prayagraj district is less than 1,000 patients,” said Dr. Sahai. “Our focus is on those pockets and colonies where an increasing number of patients are being reported in recent days,” he added. Till Wednesday, 25,614 out of 26,743 patients have cured and recovered taking the recovery rate in Prayagraj district to 95.77%. The district had 784 active cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/testing-must-in-50m-radius-of-covid-patients/articleshow/79573101.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||SC junks plea seeking govt nominees in Muslim trust for Ayodhya mosque||NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed a petition seeking directions for nominating Central and state government representatives to the Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation (IICF) trust for building a mosque in Ayodhya. Citing the Shri Ram Mandir Teerth Ksehtra Trust – formed by the central government in accordance with the SC judgment of November 2019 in the Ayodhya dispute to oversee construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya — the petitioners said it was only fair that the government monitors the Muslim trust as well. The writ, filed by Shishir Chaturvedi of Lucknow and Karunesh Kumar Shukla of Basti in August 2020, was dismissed by the bench of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman and Justice KM Joseph. The petitioners had contented that the central government’s involvement was necessary to maintain peace in Ayodhya and to “ensure no malpractices take place and funds are not misused or misappropriated” by the trust. Spokesperson of the trust Athar Husain said, “The petition does not hold any water. The trust formed by UP Sunni Central Waqf Board for management of 5-acre plot already has CEO of the Board, who is a government officer, as founder trustee.” In November 2019, Supreme Court had ordered the disputed land in Ayodhya be set aside for construction of Ram Mandir and UP Sunni Central Waqf Board be allotted 5 acres by the government for construction of a mosque. Aftert the state government allotted land at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya , UP Sunni Central Waqf Board formed a trust, Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation in August this year with nine members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sc-junks-plea-seeking-govt-nominees-in-muslim-trust-for-ayodhya-mosque/articleshow/79574122.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Forum to bring electric vehicle stakeholders on one platform||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Friday launched the Delhi EV Forum as a platform for continuous engagement with stakeholders in the electric vehicle (EV) ecosystem for successful implementation of the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy. The AAP government had notified its ambitious policy on August 7, 2020, with the aim of EVs having a market share of 25% across all new vehicle sales in Delhi by 2024. “The policy lays out a comprehensive strategy to enable rapid transition to EVs in the national capital centred around five key pillars – targeted financial incentives, non-financial incentives, enabling charging infrastructure, raising public awareness and building a green economy,” a statement from Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi government said. “Realising the vision of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s to make Delhi the EV capital of India requires participation of all stakeholders – original equipment manufacturers , fleet operators, charging station energy operators, experts and various government agencies. Delhi EV Forum will provide the platform for it,” Jasmine Shah, vice-chairman of DDC, said. “Since the launch of Delhi’s EV policy, we have received enthusiastic response from several stakeholders. Their concerns and suggestions are important and discussing them transparently at the Delhi EV Forum is the best way to chart a joint roadmap for the successful implementation of Delhi EV Policy,” Shah said. The forum’ will provide a platform for continuous engagement with a broad set of stakeholders to implement the Delhi EV Policy through a series of quarterly meetings, the statement said. The first meeting of the Delhi EV Forum will be held virtually on December 18 and will aim to understand the on-the-ground challenges towards deployment of EVs and charging infrastructure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forum-to-bring-ev-stakeholders-on-one-platform/articleshow/79574116.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||Hathras case: High court turns down PIL seeking judicial probe||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Thursday refused to entertain a PIL seeking a judicial inquiry into the alleged gang rape case in Hathras, saying it did not want to multiply the litigation as another one in this regard was pending before the HC’s Lucknow bench. A division bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal was hearing the PIL filed by one Babita Upadhyay. The petitioner had also sought directions to the state government and authorities concerned not to restrain the media or the public at large to meet the family members of the victim. The court while declining to interfere in the present proceedings, said that a division bench at Lucknow had taken suo motu cognizance of the midnight cremation of the victim’s body. “We are not inclined to multiply the litigation in relation to the issue which is already under consideration,” the bench observed. The petitioner had also sought a direction to the state government to formulate proper guidelines and provide adequate and uniform compensation to all the victims of gang rape and murder without any discrimination. The petition was disposed with liberty to move an appropriate application before the division bench at Lucknow. The Lucknow bench had taken suo motu cognizance of the incidence in which the police and local administration in Hathras had cremated the body of an alleged gang rape victim without the consent of their family. While taking cognizance of the matter, the HC had stated that it was an “extremely sensitive” matter, touching upon the basic human and fundamental rights of the citizens. Subsequently, the investigation of the case was transferred to the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hathras-case-high-court-turns-down-pil-seeking-judicial-probe/articleshow/79574149.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 5, 2020||Bareilly||After razing centuries old grave for ‘morning walkers’, Rampur admin decides to rebuild it||Rampur: Days after razing a centuries old grave of a sufi saint inside Rampur fort “as it came in the way of morning walkers”, the administration in Rampur on Friday decided to reconstruct it. The decision came after several clerics and Islamic scholars met senior police and district administration officials. The authorities and the clerics decided that the grave will be reconstructed. Soon after the meeting, district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh uploaded a video message on his Facebook page saying that the platform of the grave size will be built at the demolition site. “We (administrative authorities) had not demolished the shrine but the encroachment was removed from inside the lawn of the fort. While respecting the faith and sentiments of the people a grave-size platform will be constructed at the site and no religious activities will be permitted there. The supervision of the grave/platform will be carried out by the authorities only.” Jama Masjid’s Imam Mufti Mehboob Ali who had led the delegation of the clerics said, “The matter has been resolved with the co-operation of police and administrative authorities. The grave will be reconstructed at the spot and we are appealing to maintain the peace and the communal harmony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-razing-centuries-old-grave-for-morning-walkers-rampur-admin-decides-to-rebuild-it/articleshow/79570802.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||MANESAR LAND SCAM: Classic example of pick & choose investigation: CBI judge||Chandigarh: “There’s an old adage that men may tell lies, but circumstances do not. If the entire matter is seen with some objectivity, then it can pertinently be stated that it is a classic example of pick and choose investigation,” special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh has observed in the Manesar land scam. In a detailed judgment passed in Panchkula on December 1, special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh, while summoning Haryana additional chief secretary (home and health) Rajeev Arora and four others as additional accused, slammed the investigating agency’s investigation and also raised question on the role of the investigation officer (IO). The court observed that the investigation officer had turned a blind eye to the role of some important public servants. On the officer’s role, the judge said, “Reasons may be twofold. That the IO was adamant to extend benefit either to persons arrayed as accused or to persons against whom there are clear cut and prima facie circumstances but have not been arraigned as accused.” “The common man of this country reposes unflinching faith in the investigations conducted by the CBI and the premier investigating agency has always remained above board in almost all sensitive matters and the matters involving high and mighty. Therefore, the faith and confidence of common man cannot be allowed to be shaken and sporadic instances of biased and tainted investigations of a few investigators cannot dent the image of this agency. It apparently appears that IO of this case has done investigation in an apparent pick and choose manner, for reasons best known to him. The IO has sought to introduce narrative which on the face of it gets contradicted vide documents/material on record. Despite there being unambiguous statements of witnesses and documents on record so as to afford him to take a logical line of action in his investigation, the IO has chosen to turn a blind eye to the role of some important public servants whose acts and omissions can be prima facie termed to be more culpable than persons arrayed as accused in this case, if the standard of analysis adopted by the IO is applied to the whole matter. Objectivity and detachment, which are hallmark of functioning of premier agencies like CBI, are found to have been thrown to the winds by the investigator and it apparently seems that he has treaded a path guided by pre-conceived ideas and line of action,” reads the 176 page judgment, which was made available on Friday. The next date of hearing is December 17. Box Sobriquet of ‘caged parrot” “Such isolated instances are enough to bring the sobriquet of ‘caged parrot” to the agency. At the cost of repetition, as per settled law, the court is not supposed to act as a mere post office or a mouthpiece of the prosecuting agency and act as a mute spectator. The conduct of investigators, especially in sensitive matters, needs to be put under scanner and scrutinised with reference to their movements and calls records of the relevant time,” says special CBI judge Jagdeep Singh Box Prime facie case against Arora “From the challan documents, a prima facie case for commission of offences... is also made out against Rajeev Arora, then managing director, HSIIDC; Surjit Singh, then chief town planner, HSIIDC; Dhare Singh, then chief town planner, town and country planning department; Kulwant Singh Lamba, then deputy superintendent, town and country planning department; D R Dhingra, then director, industries and commerce... accordingly all these persons are liable to be summoned as additional accused”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/manesar-land-scam-classic-example-of-pick-choose-investigation-cbi-judge/articleshow/79573109.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 5, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM to honour best performing ‘swachh’ urban bodies today||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, will honour urban bodies, which gave excellent results in "Swachh Survekshan 2020" at 3.00 pm on Saturday at a function in Minto Hall here. The urban bodies will be encouraged to perform even better in "Swachh Survekshan 2021". The chief minister will also hold "Swachhata Samvad" with sanitation workers, housing associations, NGOs and self-help groups. Urban development and housing minister, Bhupendra Singh and minister of state for urban development and housing, OPS Bhadauria will also express their views in the programme. The programme will be broadcast live from Bhopal Doordarshan and all social media platforms. There will be live broadcasts on various channels as well. The then commissioners / chief municipal officers of the urban bodies which received the award and the then mayors / presidents will be honoured. As many as 56 urban bodies will be awarded in different categories at the "Swachhta Seva Samman" ceremony. In the ceremony, 9 national awardees, 38 who have done excellent work at divisional level and 9 urban bodies who have done excellent work in "Gandagi Bharat Chhodo Abhiyan" will be honoured at the ceremony. The state’s small Nagar Parishad, Kantafod, made its mark at the national level. The zonal ranking of Kantafod was 833 in the year 2019. However, in 2020 , it came to 19. In the west zone, cities with a population of less than 25 thousand have received the award for rapid growth. Similarly, Burhanpur municipal corporation has received the national award for the fastest growing city in the 1 to 3 lakh population category. Burhanpur town was ranked 103 in the year 2003 but it came 14th in 2020. Earlier, the chief minister Chouhan also reviewed the functioning of the call centre located at CM House and sought information about the system of getting feedback regarding the schemes. Action is being taken to know the actual situation about the implementation of government’s public welfare schemes by calling the beneficiaries over the phone. Reviewing the working of the call centre, Chouhan said that this system should be strengthened further. Proceedings on the application forms of people coming to CM House should continue. On this occasion, the officials informed that despite action at the level of the concerned department and the district collector, the applicants come to the CM House only if the work is not completed. The chief minister instructed that in such cases, efforts should be made to ensure a proper solution. Broadening of the working pattern of the call centre must also be considered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-to-honour-best-performing-swachh-urban-bodies-today/articleshow/79571800.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Lucknow||UP: ‘Mission Rozgar’ to be launched today||LUCKNOW: With a target to generate employment for 50 lakh persons by the end of the current financial year, the state government will be launching Mission Rozgar on Saturday. The programme will aim to train and skill people in order to provide them with employment opportunities. A special programme on apprenticeship will also be organized under the mission. As part of the Mission, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will issue appointment letters to 37,000 newly selected assistant teachers of primary schools during Saturday’s programme. The ceremony will be held virtually and the CM would be interacting with some of the newly appointed teachers. Appointment letters have already been issued to 31,277 assistant teachers at a ceremony held on October 16, 2020 while 3,317 assistant teachers of secondary schools were issued appointment letters on October 23. The appointment of the remaining 37,000 teachers out of total 69,000 was cleared by the Supreme Court last month. Chief Secretary RK Tiwari said that under Mission Rozgar, government departments, voluntary organizations, corporations, councils, boards and local bodies would coordinate to create opportunities of employment and self- employment through skill training and apprenticeship. Development authorities will be playing an especially important role in this process through allocation of land, issuing licenses and granting clearances. The CS office has issued a detailed guidelines to the chairperson of the Revenue Board, the agriculture production commissioner, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries, HoDs, divisional commissioners and district magistrates regarding the launch of Mission Rozgar from Saturday. “A detailed action plan will be prepared by departments concerned for the implementation of the campaign which includes skill training, appointments, issuing permissions, allocation of land and data collection. We are targeting to enable 50 lakh youth for employment and self-employment by the end of this financial year,” the CS said. An employment help desk will be set up in every government office where details of programs related to employment, self-employment and skills training being run by that particular department will be made available. The Directorate of Training and Employment has been tasked with maintaining a database for Mission Rozgar and to develop an app and a portal for it. The budget for this work will be made available by the labour department. It will be the responsibility of a nodal officer, nominated by each department, authority, corporation etc to update the data from their particular department on the app and portal. The directorate will also organize job fairs in collaboration with private industries. Departments will organize workshops and awareness programmes to enable self-employment. Simultaneously, vacant posts in all departments will also be filled by running special campaigns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mission-rozgar-to-be-launched-today/articleshow/79574176.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 5, 2020||Agra||2 girls among 7 held for thrashing anti-Romeo squad in Mathura||AGRA: Mathura police on Friday arrested seven young people, including two girls, for allegedly assaulting police personnel of the anti-Romeo squad, when the latter objected to “unnecessary presence” of boys outside the college. The squad was formed by UP police to protect women from stalkers. According to police, the squad sleuths, both men and women dressed in plainclothes, were deployed around a girl’s college at 12:30 pm, when they spotted a few boys loitering outside the premises. When the team objected to their presence, two of them allegedly abused them. Later, two girls joined them and allegedly misbehaved and abused the police personnel. They called up their friends who allegedly arrived there with sticks and rods, attacked the police personnel and tore their identity cards, the FIR said. The arrested young people have been booked by police for rioting, assaulting or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, voluntarily causing hurt, intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace, at Kotwali police station. Circle officer Varun Kumar told TOI that all the seven have been remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/2-girls-among-7-held-for-assaulting-anti-romeo-squad-sleuths-in-mathura/articleshow/79570822.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Cities infected, these villages have anti-virus cover||AHMEDABAD: While the major Gujarat cities are finding it difficult to stall the Covid-19 juggernaut, some panchayats of the state have successfully prevented the virus from infiltrating into their villages. These villages seem to have an upper hand in the war against Covid because their people have closed ranks in the crisis. The panchayats of these villages strictly adhere to the battle plan: controlling the entry of people coming from Covid-affected areas; enforcing the use of sanitizers and masks; and having Covid tests done regularly. TOI profiles some panchayats which are showing the way in dealing with the pandemic. Women power in HapaHapa village of Jamnagar district has an allwoman panchayat. The village continues to be under lockdown, which was imposed on March 23. Religious functions are banned and only a few close relatives of deceased villagers are allowed to carry out the last rites. In all circumstances, wearing masks is mandatory in public spaces. Villagers iving elsewhere have been advised not to return till the pandemic situation eases. Bhanuben Maheshbhai, the sarpanch of the village, said any gathering in the village is restricted. People from other villages are strongly discouraged from entering Hapa. The villagers have resolved to postpone weddings till next year. Earlier, the entire village got together for funerals or condolence meetings. Now only 10 to 15 people are allowed to take part in such events. The village has a population of 1,800; one member of each family in the village can by turn visit the kin of the bereaved. “Six families from the village live in Ahmedabad, Surat, and other places,” said Bhanuben. “But all have assured the panchayat that they will not return to the village till the pandemic loosens its grip.” Aniyod anyone? Get testedThe Aniyod panchayat of Sabarkantha district recorded two cases, way back in July. Since then the village has put stringent measures in place. Kanaksinh Jhala, the sarpanch, said that the entry of outsiders —especially from Covid-affected areas — is not permitted without prior information. Those coming from areas about which the panchayat has no Covid-case information must undergo a scan at the village health centre. If required, a rapid antigen test is conducted. Only visits to hospitals are permitted, so the villagers do not venture out to meet their relatives. They even skipped the annual Diwali and Gujarati New Year celebrations. Kotai’s sanitizer and mask codeKotai village has maintained a safe distance from the Covid pandemic,” said Valjibhai Ranabhai, the sarpanch of this Bhuj village. “The panchayat distributes masks and sanitizers to people and also ensures that the people wash their hands properly using soap.” Ranabhai added: “Each and every corner of the village has a sanitizer bottle and if four or more people gather it is necessary for them to wear masks. They must also carry sanitizers.” The panchayat office has a sanitizer and people are told to use it before entering and leaving. With inputs from Vijaysinh Parmar & Nimesh Khakhariya||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cities-infected-these-villages-have-anti-virus-cover/articleshow/79573126.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Big +ve: Active Covid cases down 10,000 in 10 days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Ten days ago, on November 25, the Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi dipped below 10%. Since then, it has been on a downward trend. On Friday, the rate stood at 4.78%, the sharp decline also resulted in the number of active novel coronavirus cases coming down by more than 10,000 in the last 10 days. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday that the reduction of the positivity rate to below 5% after a surge began on November 7 is a sign of relief. “If the positivity rate continues to stay below 5%, we will overcome the pandemic,” Jain said. The minister said over 65% beds and more than 40% ICU beds were currently unoccupied. The positivity rate has been below 5% for three consecutive day and if it continued for five days, it would be indicative of Delhi having combated the virus, Jain said. He thanked everyone involved in the battle against Covid and attributed the achievement to aggressive testing and contact tracing. Jain also said that according to Delhi government’s live Corona app, on Friday morning there were 18,700 beds for Covid, of which only 6,658 beds had patients. Of the 5,029 ICU beds, 2,013 beds were vacant. The number of active cases in Delhi had declined on Friday to 28,252 from 38,287 on November 25. The last time the number of active cases was lower than on Friday was on October 27, when the figure was 27,873. Since October 27, the number of active cases had gone up steadily as the capital battled the third and deadliest wave of Covid infection. On November 14, active cases had reached an all-time high of 44,456. With new cases declining and more patients recovering in the last 10 days, the number of active cases came down significantly. On November 25, the number of fresh cases was 5,246 from the 61,778 tests conducted, including 26,080 RT-PCR tests, considered more highly reliable than the rapid antigen test. On the same day, the number of patients who had recovered stood at 5,361. The number of fresh cases has remained below 5,000 since then and except for November 26, when 5,475 new cases were reported and 4,937 patients recovered, the daily number of people recovering from Covid has been higher than people testing positive. On most days, the number of recovered patients has been around 1,000 more than the number of new cases, explaining the dip of more than 10,000 in the number of active cases in the last 10 days. Apart from aggressive testing and increased contract tracing, another strategy adopted by Delhi government that helped bring down the positive numbers was the creation of micro containment zones even in locations where fewer than three people had tested positive. This explains why, while the positivity rate has come down from 8.5% to 4.7%, average daily new cases from 5,246 to 4,067 and active cases from 38,287 to 28,252 in the last 10 days, the number of containment zones has gone up from 4,980 on November 25 to 5,909 on Friday. Jain also asserted on Friday that Delhi had the infrastructural ability to store the Covid vaccine when it became available and carry out the vaccination programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-ve-active-cases-down-10k-in-10-days/articleshow/79573159.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Emergency approval for vaccine has more disadvantages than advantages: IMA||Nagpur: News about probable Covid-19 vaccine are creating sensations around the world, especially from last week. After it was highlighted through media that coronavirus vaccine will be available by December-end, everyone is excited that the pandemic will end soon. But, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), has some different view. According to IMA, media coverage is causing unnecessary hype regarding the vaccine in the last few days. Hence, the IMA Maharashtra has issued a long statement to point out some important facts about it. According to the statement issued by the IMA State President Dr Avinash Bhondwe, such emergency in approval for vaccine has more disadvantages than advantages. “Safety of the vaccine has to be tested widely with a large number of volunteers across the globe with different categories like age groups, sex, race, continents, and climate conditions. Any vaccine which is not tested fully with such third stage clinical trials is not safe,” reads the statement signed by Dr Bhondwe as well as Dr Pankaj Bandarkar, Hon secretary of State IMA. “There might be many side effects after its inoculation from simple rashes to severe and fatal anaphylactic reactions. The efficacy of the vaccine claimed by the Pharma Companies has to be verified by the scientific research authorities with the National and international level standard and having power to accept or reject any research of such type,” the statement further reads. According to Dr Bhondwe, even if the vaccine is given emergency approval by the National Body like ICMR, there will be many unanswered issues. “These mRNA vaccines need to maintain the temperature of around -25 degrees to -70 degrees in some of the vaccine types. Out government don’t have such facilities at present. We need to outsource these. It will take quite some time,” said Dr Bhondwe. “We expect the government of India to announce the facts and let people know the exact preparation the government is carrying out. A detailed and transparent declaration of the campaign will only subside the wave of curiosity in Indians who are looking forward to the vaccine as their soul saviour,” said Dr Bhondwe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/emergency-approval-for-vaccine-has-more-disadvantages-than-advantages-ima/articleshow/79571812.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Four sections of crucial Metro links likely to be operational in 2 years||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s vision of snarl-free city commute via multiple Metro links in two years seems to be matching RVNL’s deadlines. At least four sections of some crucial Metro corridors are likely to be operational within the above time frame. Now that the Majerhat bridge construction is out of the way, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) is trying to expedite construction of Phase 1 or the 8.5km Joka-Taratala stretch. If all goes well, the truncated stretch will commissioned by 2021 end. Simultaneously, work is being speedily executed for Phase 2 or the 2km Taratala-Mominpur section so that commuters could use the Metro from Joka to Mominpur by December 2022. “This Metro corridor is Mamata Banerjee’s pet project. She had flagged it in July 2011 and conceived it when she was railway minister in 2009-10,” a senior RVNL official said. The Joka-Esplanade Metro route running alongside the bridge posed a challenge for the Majerhat bridge construction, especially since the initial design of the bridge, which was made 28m wide, overlapped with the alignment Metro. Even after the issue was sorted out and bridge’s width reduced to 22m and its central line shifted to make room for the Metro station’s pillars, PWD had asked RVNL to limit construction till the pillars because the entry and exits of the Majerhat station “infringed” on the new bridge. The Metro station construction started last month with the foundation work. Construction of the Metro four pillars adjacent the bridge started in February, this year. RVNL chose to engage SP Singla, the Haryana-based company constructing Majerhat bridge, to build the piers next to the bridge “to avoid any dispute.” RVNL is also trying very hard to complete the truncated Ruby section of the New Garia-Airport Metro by December 2021. The 5km stretch between the terminal Kavi Subhas station and the Ruby crossing (Hemanta Mukherjee station) is currently undergoing ballast-less track laying. Finally, and the most imminent Metro project: The 4km extension to Dakshineswar that is awaiting an inspection for the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS). The Dakshineswar Metro is likely to be operational next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/four-sections-of-crucial-metro-links-likely-to-be-operational-in-2-years/articleshow/79573116.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 5, 2020||Agra||MLC poll: Independent wins Agra section teacher’s seat||AGRA: Independent candidate Akash Agarwal defeated BJP nominee Dinesh Kumar Vasishtha in the legislative council election for Agra section teacher's seat, results of which were declared on Friday. Agarwal secured 2,376 more votes than the BJP candidate. Voting on ballot paper for 11 MLC seats in UP took place on Tuesday. Agra section comprises 12 districts in western UP. For the past 24 years, the Agra section MLC teacher’s seat has consistently been represented by independent candidates. The past four consecutive elections were won by government-aided school teacher Jagveer Kishor Jain. This time round, Jain dropped to third position while Samajwadi Party candidate, Havendra Singh, secured fourth position. A resident of Agra district, Agarwal has been a teacher with government affiliated self-finance institutions. In fact, he added the nomenclature, “Vityaviheen Wallahe” to his name while filing for his candidature. Agarwal managed to consolidate the votes of private school teachers in his favour. Speaking with TOI, Agarwal said, “Teachers from all the 12 districts under Agra seat voted to make me win the election. I will strongly pursue the issues of the teachers in the legislative council. The welfare of teachers of self-finance institutions will be my top priority. I will ensure that the teachers of self-finance institutions get benefits on a par with government teachers. I will also work to strengthen the Right to Education Act.” Meanwhile, the Agra section graduate seat counting continued till late in the evening on Friday. The BJP candidate was leading by over 5,000 votes followed by Samajwadi Party nominee at the time of filing this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mlc-poll-independent-wins-agra-section-teachers-seat/articleshow/79570812.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||HC to decide if posthumously adopted son of martyr is entitled to grant-in-aid||Chandigarh: the Punjab and Haryana high court has to decide whether the adopted child of a martyr’s widow is entitled to grant-in-aid. Taking cognizance of a plea filed by adopted son of the widow of the 1965 Indo-Pak war martyr from Punjab, who has been asked to deposit the grant-in-aid received by him on behalf of his adoptive mother, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday issued notice to the Punjab government seeking reply on the issue. Justice Girish Agnihotri has also restrained the state government from recovering the amount from the adopted son. The petitioner, Rajesh Kumar, who was adopted by Uma Wanti, the widow of martyr Shugan Chand of Punjab’s Ropar district, moved the HC on the contentious issue. Shugan Chand had sacrificed his life in the Indo-Pak War in 1965 and his widow adopted Rajesh Kumar as his son after his death. She had also applied for 10-acre land as prescribed in the Punjab government’s policy for the families of those soldiers killed in wars. Uma Wanti died in 2011 and her adopted son followed up the application she had filed for release of grant in aid to her in pursuance to a notification of 2016 issued by the Punjab government. As per the 2016 notification, a lump sum amount of Rs 50 lakh was to be paid to the family of martyr in lieu of the 10 acre land. Rajesh Kumar was paid an aggregate amount of grant of Rs 20 lakh and Rs 15 lakh in two instalments, and the third instalment of Rs 15 lakh still remained to be paid to him. However, on September 25, 2020, the state government asked him to refund the amount of Rs 35 lakh for the purported reason that there was no provision under the government policy to give grant in aid to the adopted child of a martyred soldier. Aggrieved from the recovery notice, Rajesh Kumar approached the Punjab and Haryana high court arguing that under Section 12 of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, an adopted son has all the rights of a son from date of adoption. The petitioner’s counsel H C Arora contended that under the government notification of 2016, the grant-in-aid was to be distributed in accordance with law of succession, after the widow of martyr passes away. Thus, he was entitled to grant-in-aid on the death of his adoptive mother, the counsel submitted. The petitioner also prayed for a direction to the state government to release to him a balance amount of Rs15 lakh with interest, as the family of a deceased martyr of 1965 Indo Pak War is entitled to an aggregate amount of Rs 50 lakh as grant-in-aid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-to-decide-if-posthumously-adopted-son-of-martyr-is-entitled-to-grant-in-aid/articleshow/79573117.cms||Ajay Sura
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Use clean fuel, pollution control board to industry||Chandigarh: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has made it mandatory to use PNG, CNG or non-polluting fuel for units being set up in areas of the state falling in the National Capital Region (NCR). This communication came last month after CPCB reviewed shift of fuel consumption from conventional coal or scrap to PNG or CNG or butane by industries across states in the neighbourhood of New Delhi. The directive is restricted to new industrial units as the old ones are found to be slower or reluctant to make the switch to non-polluting fuel. At Panipat, Faridabad, Gurugram and Sonipat, dark smoke emanates from chimneys of industrial units, suggesting the use of highly polluting fuel like rubber, tyres etc. The CPCB letter was received at Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) earlier this month and the board has been asked to submit a compliance report within a month. With Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Sonipat, Rewari and Mahindergarh and Jhajjar being projected as investment destinations for entrepreneurs, as many as 12 out of 22 districts of the state fall in the NCR area of Haryana. Haryana has also come up with plans to invite foreign direct investment as well as investment from entrepreneurs within the country. Environment clearance is one of the major components of setting up industry in the state. The instruction has come at a time when Haryana slipped to the 16th position from the third position. Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) managing director Anurag Aggarwal said, “See, so far as major industries are concerned, these are either corporates or FDIs who already have a set in the state. Rest, we are duty-bound to adhere to guidelines and directives issued by the central bodies.’’ Entrepreneurs are not very enthusiastic about taking to the new system. Industry experts are also skeptical about acceptance of new guidelines issued by the CPCB. “CPCB directions are a knee-jerk reaction to the annual ritual of waking up to pollution in Delhi. With 75% of the industry of the NCR in non-conforming areas and with no access to PNG, how is the CPCB direction of any relevance? Just the cost of applying and converting a small genset to PNG is over Rs 6 lakh. How is a micro enterprise in these recessionary times expected to comply? These are ill thought through directions and shall remain on paper till a more comprehensive policy is made, being more realistic in assumptions,’’ said Deepak Sharma, industry expert and consultant for industries in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/use-clean-fuel-pollution-control-board-to-industry/articleshow/79573157.cms||Manvir Saini
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||MC polls will be clean sweep for Congress: Selja||Chandigarh: HPCC president Kumari Selja, on Friday, predicted clean sweep by the Congress in the civic polls of three municipal corporations. Interacting with media persons, Selja elaborated upon the party’s plans of contesting elections. Referring to the farmers’ agitation, Selja reiterated the party’s support to farmers while daring JJP to clarify its stand. “As far as civic polls are concerned, this was a conscious decision taken keeping in view the sentiments of our ground-level workers. Now, there is totally an anti BJP-JJP sentiment as well as anti-incumbency against the local representatives in Ambala and Panchkula. Hence, we shall perform our best,’’ said Selja. According to her, the process of selection of candidates has begun and the party is in the process of setting up election management and manifesto committees. Talking about the farmers’ agitation, Selja said, “ We had been protecting MSP throughout so far until the Narendera Modi-led BJP government forced the three anti-farmer laws. We are committed to scrap these on our return. Rest, we stand by farmers and support them as well. This is for the first time that we have such a government which is totally insensitive towards farmers.’’ Lashing out at the JJP, she said, “Why doesn’t the JJP clarify its stand on if they want to enjoy power with BJP or if they are with farmers. Why have they forgotten that they contested elections against BJP and had assured protection to farmers. Hence they could get 10 MLAs. What stops them in clarifying their stand now?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-polls-will-be-clean-sweep-for-congress-selja/articleshow/79573153.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Unlocked, but shutters down at single-screen cinemas||BHOPAL: Two of the three cinema halls in the city, which started operating a day after Diwali, are closed again, while several others didn’t open shutters post lockdown. Now, the only cinema hall which is still in operation is Bharat Talkies. Jyoti and Sangam talkies closed again as no new film was released after ‘Surya Par Mangal Bhari’, which all the three cinema halls were earlier showing. Manager, Jyoti Talkies, Rakesh Narula, when asked why the cinema hall had to be closed again, said, “No new film is releasing. Besides, guidelines of the government that only 50 per cent of the capacity can sit and no two persons will sit together are also responsible for people not coming to cinema halls and, of course, the Corona scare. Until and unless big films are released and the situation created by Coronavirus pandemic improves, the cinema halls can’t run. Films are not being released because cinema halls are still closed in Maharashtra and Delhi.” Owner of Bharat Talkies, the only cinema hall, which is in operation in the city, Ashwini Agrawal, admitting that running the cinema halls not financially viable in this condition, however, said, “Cinema halls should still be opened. Keeping them closed is no option either. Maybe very few filmgoers are turning up but they are there, which means that people want to watch films. You have to show positivity by keeping the cinema halls open for them, so that situation moves towards normalcy.” As the cinema halls are closed for almost nine months, finances of its owners are fast depleting. Perhaps, it is the reason why you find a ‘garments sale’ at Alpana Talkies and speculations are rife that Rambha Talkies has been sold out. Owner of Rambha Talkies, Deepak Simhal, who is also the president of Bhopal Cine Association, however, said , “There is no deal till now. These are all rumours”. Owner of Rangmahal and Sangeet Talkies, Bunty Singh, when asked about the financial viability of running a cinema hall now said, “Cinema halls were at the verge of closure after multiplexes came, and Coronavirus pandemic has now dealt a lethal blow to surviving cinema halls.” He said the government has also been apathetic towards their problems . “If nothing else, they could have waived off the electricity bill. We are not showing films but paying electricity bills of Rs 1.5 lakh to 2.00 lakh every month, since paying the bill of minimum load is essential,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/single-screens-down-their-shutters-in-second-surge/articleshow/79571846.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Feasibility studies ready, other flyovers await funds||Kolkata: Feasibility studies of various flyover proposals are ready and the projects can be taken up as soon as funds are sanctioned, Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) officials said a day after the CM outlined a plan of a snarl-free Kolkata.While the KMDA has prepared a detailed project report on the proposed flyover from EM Bypass to New Town and sent it to the state public works department (PWD) for technical scrutiny, it has conducted feasibility studies on a flyover connecting Prince Anwar Shah Road connector to Lords Bakery; Taratala to Brace bridge flyover; a flyover on EM Bypass over Ruby intersection and a flyover from Ultadanga to Girish Park with an arm towards Kankurgachi-Bengal Chemical. On the city’s outskirts, a flyover is proposed at Sonarpur. The flyover proposals are now back in the spotlight after CM Mamata Banerjee referred to at least four flyovers — Ganesh Chandra Avenue to New Market flyover, Taratala to Tollygunge, Prince Anwar Shah Road to Jadavpur Phari and Park Circus to Ballygunge. — during new Majerhat bridge’s inauguration. KMDA officials said the Park Circus to Ballygunge flyover plan was doubtful after police and the agency had differences over its alignment. The Tala bridge work, however, is under way full-steam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/feasibility-studies-ready-other-flyovers-await-funds/articleshow/79573155.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Recruitment row at Alipore zoo||Kolkata: Hundreds of youths, who have reportedly bagged jobs under a forest department scheme, were allegedly turned away by a “union leader” from the Alipore zoo, where they had gone to join work on Friday morning. The staff even had to suspend visitors’ entry to the zoo for a few hours.While the aspirants — approximately 111 — who had waited in front of the zoo for over seven hours since morning to join work, were finally told that they would get a call after verification of documents, a senior forester assured that they would join work from Saturday. The state, through a notification in July had created 2,000 posts in a new category called ‘Bana Sahayaks’ on a contractual basis. Samya Banerjee (35), who had come from Domjur, said he submitted application and appeared for a written test and interview on October 3. According to him, he collected appointment letter from forest department’s Auckland Road office on December 2 and was told to contact the zoo director to join duty. Chief wildlife warden V K Yadav said: “Paper verification is over and they can join duty from Saturday.” Zoo director and the union leader couldn’t be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/recruitment-row-at-alipore-zoo/articleshow/79573180.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bhopal||287 new cases take Bhopal Covid tally to 32,333||BHOPAL: With 287 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the city on Friday, the tally of positive patients reached 32,333. Among those who tested positive on Friday were nine children aged below 12 years. These also include aged below five years. Apart from the children, 20 people aged above 70 years are also among these 287 who tested positive on Friday. These also include seven elders aged above 80 years. The list of 287 people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday also includes six city doctors. Areas where these positive patients were found include the posh Char Imli where four people were found positive. Twelve new cases were also reported from another posh locality of the city, Arera Colony. Besides, these 28 new cases were found from Kolar road and Kolar locality of the city on Friday. Similarly, seven people tested positive for Covid-19 from Bairagarh area of the city. Six new patients were found from Piplani and three from Hoshangabad road. Among other areas, four persons were found positive from Baghmughalia, and five new cases were reported from Katara Hills which also includes three members of the same family. Similarly, four new cases were reported from Saket Nagar and one patient was found from the BHEL township. Other areas where new cases were found on Friday also include Ashoka Garden where 10 new cases were found and Awadhpuri where one new patient was found. So far, around 525 deaths have been reported in the city due to Covid-19 and, as on December 4, there are a total 3,075 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/287-new-cases-take-city-covid-tally-to-32333/articleshow/79571869.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||93% of Covid-19 deaths in Punjab at level-III facilities||CHANDIGARH: About 93% of Covid-19 deaths have occurred at the level-III health facilities—private and government --in Punjab, data of the state health department has revealed. Despite its efforts, the state government is struggling to bring the high fatality rate under control, which since September 9 is the highest in the country. Punjab’s death rate stands at 3.2% against the national average of 1.5%. As per the analysis of 4,769 deaths, 2,092 deaths have been reported in government facilities having intensive care units, ventilators and oxygen support system for providing treatment to critically ill patients while 2,345 people died during treatment at private level-III facilities. Private hospitals have recorded a higher number of deaths than government centres as they have the majority of the level-III facilities. As per the bed management data, the state has 1,515 beds for critically ill patients of which 1,129 are in private hospitals. Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Mohali and Amritsar have the most number of beds for critical patients and also accounts for the bulk of deaths reported at level-III. A total of 224 people died at the level-II facilities. As many as 108 people died at home. These are people who either died before their test report came or succumbed on the way to a hospital. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said data makes it evident that people of the state have easy access to health facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/93-of-deaths-in-pb-at-level-iii-facilities/articleshow/79571870.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Recovery rate touches 93%||Chandigarh: The Covid-19 recovery rate in Haryana touched 93% as recoveries once again exceeded new cases reported on Friday. The state registered 19 deaths from coronovirus infection and 1,602 new cases, while 2,770 patients were declared recovered in a day. With this the state’s overall tally has gone to 2,40,841 cases and 2,539 deaths. Of total cases, 2,23,973 have recovered. The doubling rate in Haryana has gone to 70 days. While death rate remained contained at 1.05% and positivity rate at 6.60%. As of now, there are 14,329 active cases, which include 370 critical patients who are on oxygen support. The state health officials claimed that the high testing numbers had acted as one of the deterrents in further spread of the pandemic. On Friday, the testing rate 1,46,250 tests per million. Meanwhile, four deaths each were reported from Gurgaon, Faridabad and Hisar, followed by two deaths in Charkhi Dadri, and one each in Sonipat, Ambala, Karnal, Panchkula and Jhajjar districts. Gurgaon also reported the highest 423 new cases, taking its overall tally to 51,459, 310 deaths and 4,382 active cases. Faridabad reported 336 new cases, with overall tally at 41,786 cases and 359 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/recovery-rate-touches-93/articleshow/79571872.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Gurugram school, Haryana over fee||CHANDIGARH: Charging of composite fee, which is stated to be over and above tuition and actual expenses, by Pathways School, Gurugram, has come under the scanner of the Punjab and Haryana high court, which has issued notice to the Haryana government and the school management. The HC has also directed that as an interim measure, 20% rebate on composite fee would be available to students of the school from the very beginning of the current Covid situation -- March 22. The school has been directed to generate fresh invoices on a monthly basis as per the interim directions issued by this court within one week and the parent association would have two weeks thereafter to deposit the amount in question. HC, however, made it clear that in a situation where the parent has already deposited the composite fee, a claim for refund would not be entertained. Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by the Pathways School, Gurgaon Parents Association. The association has challenged the order dated November 20 passed by the director, secondary education, Haryana, whereby directions have been issued to the school to continue the benefit of 10% rebate in composite fee, 100% rebate in transport fee and 100% rebate on residence fee till such time the school commences physical operations. Over and above the school was directed to grant an extra 10% rebate on composite fee from the date of passing of the order. The petitioners’ counsel senior advocate Chetan Mittal contended that as per the school’s website the term composite fee includes tuition, laboratory, library fee, stationery, meals, co-curricular activities on campus. Precise submission raised was that the composite fee made payable as per orders passed by the director would be over and above the tuition fee and actual expenses incurred. Mittal also submitted that as per the HC decision, which is also applicable in the state of Haryana, a school cannot charge other than tuition fee and actual expenses incurred during the pandemic period. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, while representing the school, contended that that there has been a 100% rebate already offered on the transport fee and a 10% rebate on composite fee. He further submitted that the school is ready and willing to grant a total of 20% rebate in the composite fee. The HC adjourned the matter for December 21 for further hearing observing, “It is a matter which would require a detailed hearing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-ggn-school-hry-over-fee/articleshow/79571862.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Ajni trees absorbed 6cr kg CO2 in 60 years: Activists||Nagpur: In the last 60 years, the trees in and around the inter-modal station which is coming up at Ajni have cleaned up over six crore kilograms of toxic carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This was calculated by environment activists in the city who are against the proposed project which will entail cutting of thousands of age-old trees. “To calculate the ecological value of the green cover, we have used standard formulas that are easily available on the Internet,” said Jaydeep Das, former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur. Activists have estimated that around 7,000 trees will be cut for the entire project coming up on the Central Railway land in Ajni. As per the calculations, these 7,000 trees provide oxygen worth Rs16 crore every year. “In the last 60 years, these trees have given us oxygen worth over Rs10 billion,” said Das. In a recent press release, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which is the implementing agency for the project, stated that the inter-modal station can save 16,31,737 litres of fuel and prevent emissions of nearly 75 lakh kilograms of carbon dioxide till 2050. Against this, activists have calculated the carbon sequestration being done by the trees. Their analysis reveal that at present, trees standing at the 440 acres of the proposed project site are removing more than 11 lakh kilograms every year. “In the past 60 years, these trees have removed more than six crore kilograms of the toxic gas, which is much more than the environmental benefit of the project pitched by NHAI. Nothing can compensate for the environmental benefits these age-old trees are providing,” said Das. According to the environmentalists who have visited the site, most of the trees have been planted during the British era and are native species which hold significant ecological benefits. “No amount of compensatory plantation can do justice to this loss. Also, NHAI’s track record shows massive failure of compensatory afforestation,” said tree conservator Shrikant Deshpande. As is being reported by TOI, thousands of age-old trees are facing axe for construction of a transport hub and an inter-modal station at Ajni. The Rs1,288.8 crore project is coming up on the land which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species. In a proposal submitted to the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), NHAI in its two applications has sought permission to cut nearly 2,000 trees. Experts, however, feel that the real damage will be much more. City’s noted environment activists, who played a key role in saving the urban jungle ‘Bharat Van’, say that many small and medium-sized trees have not been taken into consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ajni-trees-absorbed-6cr-kg-co2-in-60-years-activists/articleshow/79571881.cms||Manka Behl
December 5, 2020||Delhi||List volunteers to take vaccine shots by midnight, Delhi govt tells healthcare facilities||NEW DELHI: Healthcare workers have begun submitting applications for Covid-19 vaccination. To expedite the process of enumerating the priority group for the vaccine when it becomes available in India, Delhi government has asked all registered and unregistered healthcare facilities in the city to list their workers, including sanitation workers and security staff, by Saturday midnight. The government will then process the data and prepare a database for the rollout of the vaccination programme. “Enrolment is in full swing and many registered nursing homes and hospitals have already submitted the details of their employees,” said a government official on Friday. “We have also inserted a public notice in the newspapers to ask those who have so far not submitted the details to immediately do so.” Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev reviewed the enrolment exercise with senior officials on Thursday and was satisfied with the progress. The infection rate among healthcare workers of Delhi is fairly high due to exposure to the novel coronavirus and so the central government has prioritised their vaccination. Two types of enrollment are under way. The central government-run hospitals and dispensaries are submitting details of their human resources to the Union government according to the mechanism provided to them. “Delhi government hospitals and private hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities are giving their lists to the state government’s health department,” disclosed an official. The data will be submitted to the Union health and family welfare ministry by Delhi government. The healthcare workers include medical, paramedical, supporting, security, sanitation, and administrative staff of all allopathic, dental, Ayush, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings. Information can be uploaded on https://www.dshm.delhi.gov.in after private healthcare centres seek login access. A separate link has been provided for unregistered clinics. Delhi government will be employing its existing cold storage chain system currently used for regular vaccination programmes, apart from the supply and distribution chain for Covid vaccination. The government has a robust vaccination infrastructure already in place and the same resources, including human, are expected to be used for the Covid immunisation exercise. District-wise micro planning will be carried out for the last mile distribution of the Covid vaccine. An official said that Delhi government would follow all the central guidelines and directions for the implementation of the Covid vaccine programme. The plan for the distribution and implementation of vaccination among healthcare workers will be shared by the central government and accordingly implemented in Delhi, said the official. The Covid positivity rate in Delhi is dropping fast. Despite 85,000 tests in a single day on Thursday, only 4,000 persons tested positive (4.78% positive rate) and the number of recovered persons is now much higher than those actively infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/list-volunteers-to-take-vaccine-shots-by-midnight-govt-tells-healthcare-facilities/articleshow/79573212.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||20 succumb to virus in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 726 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 20 deaths due to the virus on Friday. So far, 4,882 people have succumbed to the virus and 1,54,788 peopel have tested positive. Four new deaths were reported in Ludhiana, three in Amritsar, and two each in Jalandhar, Mohali and Pathankot. One death each was reported in Bathinda, Fardikot, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Muktsar and Nawanshahr. In Mohali, 133 fresh cases surfaced in last 24 hours, 126 in Jalandhar, 100 in Ludhiana, 60 in Patiala, 58 in Amritsar and 50 in Bathinda.=As many as 30 people were tested positive in Hoshiarpur, 27 in Gurdaspur, 26 in Pathankot, 15 each in Mansa and Ropar, 12 each in Faridkot, Nawanshahr and Moga, 11 in Fazilka, 10 in Muktsar, eight in Kapurthala, seven in Ferozepur, five in Barnala, four in Fatehgarh Sahib and two in Tarn Taran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/20-succumb-to-virus-in-punjab/articleshow/79571874.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Shimla||578 recover amid reports of 13 deaths, 803 cases in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 13 Covid-19 deaths and 803 positive cases on Friday, while 578 positive patients recovered. Most positive cases were reported in Shimla (235) district, followed by Kangra (147), Mandi (110), Bilaspur (70), Kullu (55), Chamba (41), Kinnaur (38), Solan (37), Hamirpur (27), Una (22), Sirmaur (13) and Lahaul-Spiti (8). While eight patients died in Shimla district, Kangra and Kullu reported two deaths and Mandi one. The recoveries were from Shimla (186), Kullu (108), Solan (83), Lahaul-Spiti (40), Hamirpur (39), Chamba (38), Bilaspur (33), Una (28), Sirmaur (16) and Kinnaur (7). The state has so far registered 43,500 positive cases, of which 8,300 cases are active, 34,458 patients have recovered and 692 have died. As many as 5,58,531 people have been tested in the state till day, of which 5,13,862 have tested negative while results of 1,169 are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/578-recover-amid-reports-of-13-deaths-803-cases-in-hp/articleshow/79571885.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||GMCH to get first cadaver lab in state||Nagpur: A unique project of cadaver lab is set to become a reality at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur in next two months. With this, GMCH will become the first and only state-run medical college in state to have this kind of lab. A cadaver laboratory uses frozen cadavers for hands-on training, education, and development of new surgical techniques. They provide real life like experience where doctors and students, alike, can advance their understanding of human anatomy and physiology. They can enhance their practical skills, by exploring and working on human specimen. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra told TOI that the lab will have state-of-art cadaveric preservation equipment, a cadaveric operation theatre for students and many other instruments and gadgets which will be exclusively available at GMCH. “I am hopeful that the lab will be a reality in next six weeks. We plan to have six tables in the lab and each table can have ten students at a time. The deep freezing equipment that we have selected for this lab can keep the cadaver fresh for up to 3 months,” said Dr Mitra. GMCH is planning a self sustainable model to run this lab. “Being the only such lab in prime state-run medical college; many associations, companies and professional groups will hire this lab for advanced training. It will generate its own revenue through this,” said Dr Mitra. The lab will be under the department of orthopaedics and department of anatomy. A three-member committee of Dr Saurabh Shah (ortho), Dr Pravin Bhingare (surgery) and Dr Abhilasha Sahane (anatomy) will execute this lab initially. Human cadaver training allows health care professionals to study many data points, such as observing body, muscles, bones and organs in a life size model. This gives medical students a more precise idea of the size and location than can be acquired using a textbook, models or a computer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-to-get-first-cadaver-lab-in-state/articleshow/79571905.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 5, 2020||Bhopal||Passengers rue non-compliance of Covid-19 guidelines in trains||Bhopal: Sharda Sharma had not travelled by train ever since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. Her maiden journey because of a family emergency — after a gap of almost one year — turned out to be a bad experience. On one hand, it was impossible to maintain social distancing with fellow passengers, while on the other hand, a large number of travellers inside the compartment did not wear masks.Passengers said that like other places, there should be a provision of penalty for those violating the standard operating procedures issued by the government to check the spread of coronavirus infection. And this may prove dangerous in trains like Shatabdi Express where there is no cross-ventilation. Also, the train is running almost to its capacity because of the wedding season.Many people who did have masks on their faces, had them hanging below their noses. And the ticket checking staff did not object unless asked by the passengers. “Despite so many campaigns, neither the people waiting for trains at the platform wore masks nor those travelling had the safety gear over their faces,” said Sharma. She said, “People sitting behind me as well as on the seat in front of mine were not wearing masks”. When I asked the passenger sitting behind me to wear the mask, he gave a strange excuse. “You seem to be an educated person,” he reasoned, “but how would I inhale oxygen if I cover my face with a mask?” “When other passengers objected, he ultimately put it over his nose but very soon, the mask was again seen hanging around his neck. In between he also sneezed,” she recalled.She said she had to raise the issue of another passenger without mask with the ticker checker. When the ticket checker asked the passenger, he immediately covered his face with a piece of cloth.Virendra Patel, another passenger who had been to Delhi by Shatabdi, said, “The passengers have to touch the slider and door knobs of the toilets many times. At least in Shatabdi Express, the railways can make available sanitizer dispensers for the passengers.”In other trains too, passengers said they were confronted with the issue of lack of masks and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/passengers-rue-non-compliance-of-covid-19-guidelines-in-trains/articleshow/79571900.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 24-year-old SMS doctor dies 12 days after suicide bid||JAIPUR: Twelve days after attempting suicide by injecting a poisonous drug, a 24-year-old resident doctor of Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital died at the hospital, where she was undergoing treatment, on Thursday afternoon, police said. According to police, the first-year resident doctor of the department of medicine, Anu Agarwal from Bharatpur district, attempted suicide by injecting a poisonous drug while on duty at the hospital on November 22. She was admitted to the ICU in an unconscious state on the same day. “She slipped into a coma and died at the hospital on Thursday noon. We took statements of her family members (sister and brother). According to her brother, she used to say that she was unable to perform like her colleagues at the hospital,” said ASI Rajendra Prasad of Moti Doongri police station. “She had last called her elder sister on November 1,” Prasad added. “Her body was handed over to the family at 3.30pm after post-mortem. Her parents, elder sister and brother were present at the hospital yesterday (Thursday). No suicide note has been found or any FIR registered against anybody. Her viscera report is awaited,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/24-yr-old-sms-doc-dies12-days-after-suicide-bid/articleshow/79573214.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bhopal||1,324 test positive for Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With 1,324 new people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state on Friday, the tally of patients reached 2,11,698. And Friday was the fifth consecutive day when the number of people recovering in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. In the past five days between November 30 and December 3, the number of active patients in the state has reduced by 1,333. There were a total of 14,974 active cases in the state on November 29. The active cases started reducing since November 30 and as on December 4, there were a total of 13,641 active patients in the state. Apart from these fresh cases, 14 deaths were also reported on Friday. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3,314 in the state. Districts from which these deaths were reported include Indore where five deaths were reported, Gwalior and Sagar where two deaths each were reported and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Raisen, Harda, Jhabua and Tikamgarh. On Friday, new cases were reported from all the 52 districts of the state. Cases were reported in double figures from 19 districts of the state. Districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 526 cases were reported, Bhopal where 321 new cases were reported, Gwalior where 48 cases were reported and Jabalpur where 27 new cases were reported. Of the 29,776 samples that were tested on Friday, a total 1,324 people tested positive. Thus, the overall positivity rate — number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested — for Friday stood at 4.4%. On the brighter side, 1,556 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals. With these people recovering, the count of people recovering from Covid-19 reached 1,94,743.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1324-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79571911.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Three-storey complex at EDMC hospital to handle new births||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has constructed a three-storey operation theatre building at Swami Dayanand Hospital to handle the increasing number of pregnancies requiring caesarian deliveries along with other surgeries . The complex, constructed at a cost of Rs 2.7 crore, was inaugurated on Thursday. The building, equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, has the capacity to perform around 50-60 surgeries or caesarean deliveries in a day. EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said that the pressure on this hospital has increased after the neighbouring GTB Hospital was declared a Covid-19 facility in May. “Since June, several cases of surgeries, caesareans and OPD patients were recommended to our hospital,” he said. Besides OTs and patient recovery rooms, the building has a 24-bedded ward, a nursing station, waiting area and a corridor connecting to the OT complex in the neighbouring block. Jain said ll complaints regarding damages have been addressed. AAP councillor and leader of opposition Manoj Tyagi had earlier alleged that the toilet’s pipe in the OT was damaged. “A separate building for an OT complex was proposed in November 2018, considering that the ward block is in a dilapidated condition and OTs in this block have been closed due to safety risk,” said an EDMC official. “The work was stopped several times due to a ban on construction activities imposed by the DPCC or NGT for dust control measures and during Covid-19 restrictions,” the official added. “Now the operation theatre complex is ready for use and will surely reduce the waiting time for operations.” To deal with the threefold increase in the number of patients at OPDs, the hospital administration has also started OPDs in two shifts, made sheds at various places for visitors and called doctors from dispensaries to fill the gap. Regarding the reconstruction of the old building complex and the construction of another 100-bedded facility on a portion of a vacant 9 acre plot, the mayor said “We have decided to follow up the matter with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. He will be calling us for a meeting on Monday or Tuesday, where we will push the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-storey-complex-at-edmc-hosp-to-handle-new-births/articleshow/79573239.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 5, 2020||India||India’s UN vote to reclassify marijuana raises eyebrows||NEW DELHI: India has voted in favour of a move by the UN Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) to remove cannabis from Schedule IV of the 1961 convention where it was listed alongside drugs like heroin. The decision to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the most strict drug control list followed a recommendation by WHO for a change in the scope of control of cannabis and cannabis-related substances. While India voted for the dilution, its domestic laws remain tough, resulting in action by enforcement agencies as seen in the case of Narcotics Control Bureau in Mumbai in the context of small amounts being seized and Bollywood personalities being held for possession. That India voted in favour of the decision to call cannabis a less dangerous drug raised eyebrows here as the NCB has been targeting Bollywood stars for the use of the same ‘illegal’ drug. While there was no statement or explanation of vote by the government, sources said the decision was related to possible medical uses of cannabis and recommendations by WHO. It was also pointed out that some countries, held up for decriminalising cannabis, have not done away with penalties that include fines, rehab and community service. Official sources said the government will explain its position later. The commission decided by 27 votes to 25, and with one abstention, to follow the WHO recommendation, said the CND, a 53-member body. According to UN News, CND has opened the door for recognising the medicinal and therapeutic potential of the commonly-used but still largely illegal drug. “Moreover, according to news reports, the decision could also drive additional scientific research into the plant’s long-heralded medicinal properties and act as catalyst for countries to legalise the drug for medicinal use,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-un-vote-to-reclassify-marijuana-raises-eyebrows/articleshow/79575142.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||2,800 attendees, 1,000 papers & live expo — all in 1st virtual med meet||Nagpur: December and January is considered as period of medical conferences and Nagpur, being centrally located, hosts many such national and global events every year. This year too, 48th national conference of Indian Prosthodontic Society (IPS) was scheduled to be held in city from December 3 onwards. But, Covid-19 conditions did not allow the gathering of delegates from across the country. Overcoming this, the dentists took an option to go ‘virtual’, but with a difference. Unlike popular webinars and online discussions, the IPS conference had a complete conventional conference look. Even the venue — Smruti Mandir in Reshimbagh — which was earlier booked for the mega event was maintained. The difference was that the speakers, moderators, chairpersons of talks were seated at their home and more than 2,800 delegates, who had registered for this conference, were in their respective homes attending the talks virtually. Even a trade exhibition was held online during the conference, just like the way it used to organize during live conferences. “Most medical associations, including ours, had declared year 2020 as ‘Zero Year’ as we are not going to witness any public gathering in conferences due to the pandemic. So, we decided to hold the virtual event which goes very near to the real event,” said Dr Neelam Pande, the conference co-chairman. The organizers have developed an application, which allows online entry into a conference venue. Here, a user has to select the conference hall where the symposium/discussion of the user’s preference is under way. On clicking the venue, live or recorded relay of the talk/symposium starts. “The conference received enthusiastic response from all delegates with more than 2,800 registrations. Total 40 national and international speakers and nearly 1,000 scientific abstracts will be broadcast during the power-packed 4 days of the conference,” said Dr Pravin Sundarkar, president IPS Nagpur branch. Dr Sattyam Wankhade, treasurer of IPS Nagpur, said that various aspect of prosthodontics are being discussed. “We have booked 10 rooms where 20 papers are presented online daily. Experts listen to these papers in this room and later ask questions online to the presenter. Ten-minute time limit for presentation and 5 minutes for question-answer is followed in online manner,” he said, adding that the new way of conference is more organized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2800-attendees-1000-papers-live-expo-all-in-1st-virtual-med-meet/articleshow/79571917.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Buzz missing as courts resume physical hearings after 8 mnths||Nagpur: After a closure of over eight months due to Covid-19 pandemic, the city courts have resumed physical hearings with all precautions from Monday. Strict Covid protocols are being followed at the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, district and sessions court (Nyay Mandir) and all other courts.At HC and Nyay Mandir, which are the biggest courts, the entry for litigants was completely prohibited. Only in case of emergency or when directed by the judge, they were allowed in Nyay Mandir. In HC, the lawyers have been told to keep their litigants outside the premises and meet them outside the gates.At both places, police are keeping strict vigil to prevent any unauthorized entry. Even the court staff is being asked to produce identity cards at the gates. All the lawyers and court office bearers are subjected to thermal scanners to check their temperature. Only if it is found normal, they’re allowed entry. The High Court Bar Association (HCBA) and District Bar Association (DBA) have framed their own set of rules to prevent crowding inside the court premises and bar rooms.“We’ve installed touch-free sanitizing machines at the entrance of bar rooms and even removed extra chairs so that lawyers and litigants shouldn’t sit in groups. Even inside the court rooms, only those having hearing have been permitted to enter while others will sit outside for their turn. The lawyers were told to meet clients at their homes or respective offices,” HCBA president Gauri Venkatraman said.Due to strict restrictions, the HC premises and bar rooms are mostly empty, with very few lawyers seen in their chambers. Even outside, the usual buzz of litigants and lawyers is missing. “We’ve also not opened the canteen to prevent crowding of premises. Only in morning sessions, there is some rush. We’ve told the lawyers to go back home after their hearings and not to wait at bar rooms. Even vehicles are being checked at the gates and if any client is found, s/he is told to wait outside,” vice president Purushottam Patil said.At Nyay Mandir, lawyers are told to come only if their cases are listed. “We’ve taken all the precautions and have told our members to follow it strictly to avoid infection. Due to it, only 10% visitors are seen in entire premises which otherwise remains extremely crowded on any working day,” DBA secretary Nitin Deshmukh said.BoxHCBA demands hybrid hearingThe HCBA had made a representation to HC registry and senior administrative judge Sunil Shukre to allow hybrid hearing of all cases so that those who’re vulnerable like senior lawyers, should argue the cases from home. “We requested them to continue online hearing till the situation is normalized. It will help in preventing the rush inside HC premises. The registry and the judge have responded positively and are waiting for instructions from the chief justice,” Venkatraman told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buzz-missing-as-courts-resume-physical-hearings-after-8-mnths/articleshow/79570884.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: PIL cites Covid, seeks removal of blockades||NEW DELHI: A public interest litigation filed in the Supreme Court on Friday sought immediate removal of the blockade in Delhi caused by farmers agitating against agri laws and said the protesters posed grave danger of spreading the Covid infection in the capital, Haryana, Punjab and UP as most do not wear masks or observe social distancing. The PIL by law student Rishabh Sharma said the blockade of main roads had resulted in stoppage of essential medicines to and from Delhi, which is witnessing a surge in Covid infections. Patients from NCR, who travel to Delhi to get treated for Covid-19 were facing hardship and their right to life was being violated by them, he claimed. Sharma said the blocking of roads went against the grain of the recent SC judgment decrying anti-CAA protesters at Shaheen Bagh, who had blocked the Kalindi Kunj road for months. The SC in Shaheen Bagh case had said, “Such kind of occupation of public ways, whether at the site in question or anywhere else for protests is not acceptable and the administration ought to take action to keep the areas clear of encroachments or obstructions. We only hope that such a situation does not arise in the future and protests are subject to the legal position as enunciated above, with some sympathy and dialogue, but are not permitted to get out of hand." The PIL said it was wrong on the part of protesters, who have blocked national highways at several places since November 27, to have rejected the offer of Delhi Police to stage their demonstration at Nirankari Ground in Burari. Giving reasons for filing of the PIL, he said it was needed since “the people affected by such irresponsible acts of the protesters and the state were not in a position to remove these protesters as they are huge in number”. He added, “The only way to restrict the spread of Covid-19 is by putting restrictions on mass gatherings. Coronavirus is affecting mainly elderly people and the protests consists mostly of elderly men and women.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pil-cites-covid-seeks-removal-of-blockades/articleshow/79573289.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||ACP loses Rs41,300 to online fraud||NAGPUR : An assistant commissioner of police with the social branch of Nagpur city police has fallen prey to cyber crooks. Not only was ACP Vilas Sonawane’s Google Pay account hacked but he lost Rs41,300 in five transactions that weren’t done by him. The first unauthorized transaction took place on May 1 this year when the ACP’s Google Pay account and HDFC Bank account were allegedly hacked and exploited by an online fraudster. The fraudster first made six transactions, including three on May 1, when he withdrew Rs1,000, Rs1,500 and Rs4,000. He then withdrew Rs4,000 and Rs4,800 on May 11 and August 5. In these five transactions, the crook withdrew Rs16,300 from the account. Besides this, on October 10, the ACP fell prey to a lucrative offer of getting three Apple Air iPods and paid Rs25,000 through an authorized merchant of an online payment portal. Later, he realized that he had been duped, said Ambazari police, which have registered a case and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acp-loses-rs41300-to-online-fraud/articleshow/79570890.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Gurgaon||Political pressure rises in Haryana: MLA says will withdraw support||KARNAL/JIND/KAITHAL/SIRSA: Political pressure over the new farm laws continued to rise against the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana on Friday, as independent MLA from Nilokheri Dharam Pal Gonder announced to support farmers, a sarpanch association in Jind said all its members will resign, JJPKarnal president announced to join the agitation in Tikri, a sarpanch resigned from the post in Kaithal, and former Haryana minister Jagdish Nehra’s son Surender Singh Nehra quit BJP. Talking to media in Karnal on Friday, Gonder, who had supported the BJP after assembly elections last year, said, “These laws were brought by the central government. If these are not in favour of farmers, we will get them amended with the help of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. If the government fails to resolve the issue, we will stand with farmers,” he said. JJP Karnal president Inderjit Singh Goraya described the three laws as anti-farmer. “The stir has now become a jan aandolan (people’s movement). Still, Centre is not listening to them. I am going there (Delhi border) as a farmer, not as a political leader. The government should call a special session and withdraw all three laws,” he said. Sandeep Singh, president of the sarpanch association in Jind, said they were ready to submit their resignations against the three laws. “We will not allow any BJP leaders to enter villages in future over these issues. The party is trying to ruin everyone by enacting the laws. All sarpanches are going to take major steps in future” he said. A Jind zila parishad member from Zone IV, Patasho Devi, also resigned from her post. Prithvi Singh (65), sarpanch of Mataur village in Kalayat town of Kaithal district, submitted his resignation to block development and panchayat officer (BDPO). “I was elected from reserved quota and had no land, but I stand with farmers as everyone will have to face dire consequences if not opposed at this time. I will go to the Delhi border to raise the voice for farmers and have tendered my resignation showing solidarity with farmers,” he said. “I am a retired junior engineer (JE) and elected sarpanch from the village after retirement. These are the anti-farmers laws which are going to affect every common man in near future. I urge everyone to come forward in the movement commenced by farmers for the nation” he added. In a letter to BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankar, Nehra, who is former chairman of Sirsa District Central Cooperative Bank Limited, said he supported the protest and was resigning from primary membership of the party. (With inputs from Sirsa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/political-pressure-rises-in-haryana-mla-says-will-withdraw-support/articleshow/79573264.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||HC seeks report on murrum extraction near Katepurna||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has sought a report on large-scale digging for extraction of murrum and felling of trees in and around Katepurna wildlife sanctuary in Akola and Washim districts. TOI had published a series of stories since September 29, exposing illegal extraction of murrum and subsequent felling of trees in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Katepurna by a Pune-based road contractor. The lid over the scam was blown by environment activist from Akola Sheikh Mohammed Sheikh Makbul aka Munna by filing a complaint on August 23. Munna alleged that over 600-800 truckload of murrum was extracted from survey number 45 in Waghgad on the south-eastern part of the sanctuary in July-August. Pillars of the sanctuary boundary were also uprooted during digging by the contractor. As all the three revenue, wildlife, and territorial department officials did not take cognisance of Munna’s complaint and were buck-passing, he was forced to seek intervention of the high court and wrote to the office of Justice Sunil Shukre, who is also the guardian judge of Amravati, to treat his complaint as public interest litigation (PIL). The complaint was placed before Justice Shukre, who has sought a report from APCCF & Melghat field director MS Reddy. This has been communicated to field director on November 23 by Anju Shende, the high court registrar (administration). Reddy has written to Akola collector Jitendra Papalkar seeking his report on the violations. Talking to TOI, Papalkar said, “Our inquiry is over and I’ve already submitted a report to additional government pleader (AGP). It is true that separate permissions to extract 600 brass of murrum and gravel were granted by Barshitakli tahsildar Gajanan Hanmad to a road construction company Swami Samarth Engineering, Pune. The area falls in the ESZ.” “I agree that the tehsildar should not have granted permission to extract murrum in ESZ, but the wildlife and territorial officials should have taken cognisance and stopped the activity. We’ve also put the private contractor on notice and those involved will certainly face action,” said Papalkar. Prima facie there were allegations by the complainant that the road from where murrum was transported was through the sanctuary. However, the divisional forest officer (DFO) MN Khairnar in his report to Akola deputy conservator denied. “The disputed road doesn’t belong to wildlife,” he said. The apex court directions in such cases are very clear. The final ESZ notification of Katepurna (73sqkm) is yet to be out. In view of ESZ delay, the default area of 10km is treated as ESZ. Munna says both wildlife and territorial officials turned a blind eye to the illegal activity. “I filed the complaint on August 23, but physical investigations started two months later,” he adds. The two big hillocks in Waghgad were pulled down by the private contractor. The ACF (wildlife) VG Sable has himself admitted the extraction was done hardly 50 metres away from the sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-seeks-report-on-murrum-extraction-near-katepurna/articleshow/79571932.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Another rebel MLA returns to Arvind Kejriwal’s party||CHANDIGARH: Rebel AAP MLA from Raikot, Jagtar Singh Jagga Hisowal returned to the party on Friday. “The inspiration behind my return to the party is the services being rendered by the Arvind Kejriwal government, leaders and volunteers of the party to farmers from across the country fighting for their livelihood.” Jagga had been staying away from party programmes for over two years. The Raikot MLA’s return follows that of another rebel MLA from Ropar, Amarjit Singh Sandoa, who defected to the Congress in May 2019 and returned to AAP “unconditionally” on Tuesday. After rejoining the party in the presence of MLAs and leaders, including leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, the Raikot MLA announced his decision to return to AAP on social media. He said, “I was elected AAP MLA from Raikot under the visionary leadership of Arvind Kejriwal, but due to some unfounded misunderstandings, I parted ways with the party, which was the biggest mistake of life, I realised later. I was misled by some vested interests.” Jagga said he would work as a volunteer of the party without any ambitions for any position. “I apologise to the people of my constituency, AAP leaders, volunteers and others who were upset by my decision to quit, a gaffe which I would never commit,” he said. In July 2018, eight of the party’s 20 MLAs in the state came out against the decision to remove Khaira as the LoP and demanded that it be reviewed. Former AAP MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia also sided with Khaira, but later switched to Congress after resigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-rebel-mla-returns-to-kejris-party/articleshow/79573266.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Congress to seek no-confidence motion, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||CHANDIGARH: Former chief minister and opposition leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said on Friday that the ruling BJP-JJP alliance has lost people’s support and the Congress would bring a no confidence motion against the ruling alliance. He demanded that the governor convene an emergency session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha at the earliest. Addressing a press conference in Gurgaon, Hooda said people of the state have spoken through people of Baroda and handed out a decisive defeat to the alliance in the by-election. Hooda said as farmers have taken to the streets, the JJP and Independent MLAs, who pose as anti-BJP parties, are enjoying power. “The Congress stands in support of farmers’ demands, but the JJP and independent MLAs who have reached the Vidhan Sabha with vote of farmers, are standing in support of the government,” the former chief minister said. According to Hooda, a few MLAs are playing “double-role” by making statements against the government on the one hand and supporting it on the other. “The no confidence motion on the legislative assembly will bring out the truth of legislators and parties playing such double role. This will make it clear who stands with the farmer and who stands with those who used tear gas shells and water cannons against them,” he said.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooda-cong-to-seek-no-confidence-motion/articleshow/79573273.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: ‘Grateful for Padma Bhushan, but people more important’||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) president and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, a day after he announced to return his Padma Bhushan award, on Friday made public his letter on the farmers’ protest, sent to President Ram Nath Kovind. In the letter, he has said he cannot keep the award when farmers were facing a “vilification campaign and hostile attitude” as they were peacefully protesting against central government farm laws. Asked what took him so long to return the awards since farmers had been protesting for over two months, Dhindsa said, “I had a hope that the central government would come up with some solution soon. But now they have stooped so low and are insulting farmers. That is intolerable.” The MP said he would visit Delhi next week and seek a meeting with the President to return the Padma Bhushan personally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/grateful-for-padma-but-people-more-important/articleshow/79573290.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Seven-month-old beats Covid, undergoes liver transplant in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 7-month-old child suffering from liver failure underwent a successful liver transplant at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS). Purvi, who was also diagnosed with Covid-19 recently, is doing well, said doctors. “Covid-19 is not the endgame. Purvi’s case is an example. She overcame two serious complications with timely treatment and is now doing very well,” said Dr V Pamecha, professor and head of liver transplant and hepato-pancreato biliary surgery department at ILBS who operated on the child. Purvi had liver failure since birth due to a rare disorder and liver transplant was the only treatment option. Her mother decided to donate a part of her liver for the transplant. However, just before the surgery, both were confirmed Covid-positive, Dr Pamecha said. Treatment started, but Purvi’s liver condition deteriorated further due to Covid-19 and she had accumulation of fluids in the stomach. “She became very weak. We had to carefully treat the infection and also provide nutritional support to make her fit enough for the transplant, a 10-hour surgery without which she could not have survived for long,” Dr Pamecha said. Purvi, who weighed five kg during admission, was seven kilogram before the transplant, the surgeon said. The surgery, conducted after both were confirmed Covid-negative, “involved transplanting a portion of the mother’s liver into the child to give her a new lease of life”, Dr Pamecha added. ILBS, which is run by Delhi government, conducts about 100 transplants annually. This year, the hospital has conducted about 55 transplants, of which 39 have been done post-lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-month-old-beats-covid-undergoes-liver-transplant/articleshow/79571943.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Madurai||HC directs Madurai corpn to desilt Panaiyur channel||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the Madurai corporation to desilt the Panaiyur channel in order to ensure free flow of water to the Mariamman teppakulam.The court was hearing a batch of petitions pertaining to removal of encroachments in Vaigai river.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that it is evident that the Panaiyur channel, which is carrying water from Vaigai river to the Mariamman teppakulam at Vandiyur is not desilted and is full of debris. The judges observed that water cannot flow into the teppakulam, even though ample water is flowing in the Vaigai river which is a rarity.In order to supply water to ensure free flow of water from the Vaigai river to the teppakulam, the judges observed that this court feels that it would be appropriate to direct the Madurai Corporation commissioner to take steps to deslit the Panaiyur channel before December 6.The judges directed the commissioner to submit a report in this regard and adjourned the case to December 7 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-madurai-corpn-to-desilt-panaiyur-channel/articleshow/79574219.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Ready to resign as MLA; Abhay Chautala||CHANDIGARH: INLD’s Abhay Chautala has announced that his party was ready to join any front of political parties supporting farmers’ cause and that he would not hesitate to resign from the state assembly on the issue. Attacking the JJP — led by his estranged elder brother Ajay and nephew Dushyant, who is also Haryana deputy CM — Abhay said some people were doing politics in the name of Devi Lal but they were a “blot on his legacy”. His was speaking in reference to JJP not withdrawing support from BJP in Haryana over the farmers’ issues. On agriculture minister J P Dalal’s statement claiming China and Pakistan were behind farmers’ agitation, Abhay said he (Dalal) was a “dismissed junior engineer” and such statements were not unexpected from him. The Ellenabad MLA alleged people from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had a history of creating division in any movement. But they would not be successful in sabotaging the ongoing farmers protest, he added. Cases against farmers: Vij to talk to KhattarMeanwhile, JJP’s Digvijay Chautala, along with the party’s state chief Nishan Singh, met Haryana home minister Anil Vij demanding withdrawal of criminal cases against the farmers. Later, VIj said he would discuss the issue with the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ready-to-resign-as-mla-abhay/articleshow/79573291.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||Hydrology institute gets till May to complete salinity study on Mhadei||Keri: The National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, has been given extension up to May 31, 2021, to submit its study report on the salinity in the Mhadei. Earlier, the institute was given time from August to October to complete its study. Later, the Goa government said that the study on salinity in the Mhadei should cover all seasons, including the lean summer period, as the these months are when the salinity is at its peak. Study carried out soon after monsoon by itself is not sufficient to determine salinity, Goa government said. Accordingly, central department of water resources has now conveyed to the Goa government that the extension has been granted to submit the report on the study related to the impact on salinity in the Mhadei due to the proposed dams in Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hydrology-institute-gets-till-may-to-complete-salinity-study-on-mhadei/articleshow/79574227.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Younger farmers make relay trips to keep supplies intact||NEW DELHI: Gurjeet Singh, a 35-year-old farmer from Mohali in Punjab, has been doing his bit to ensure that his compatriots sitting on protest at Singhu border do not run out of essentials. On Thursday night, he reached the protest site along with four others in vehicles loaded with fresh bread, tea and water bottles. “We contacted senior farmers and asked them for their requirements. We will return to our village after five days when another group comes here with more rations,” said Gurjeet, while serving food at a langar. Over the past nine days, the younger farmers have been doing relays for food and other items. While the farmers said they had enough rations for months, the youths from their villages were joining them periodically with fresh supplies to avoid any inconvenience. This has also ensured that the number of protesters remains high. Amarjeet Singh, an 80-year-old farmer camping at the border since November 26, said, “When four farmers leave Singhu border in the morning, six others arrive at night along with essentials. We plan the relays in such a manner that our numbers at the site keep on rising. We are here for the long haul and will leave only when the farm laws are rolled back,” he added. Kanwaljeet Singh, who was planning to leave on Saturday morning for Fatehgarh Sahib, said, “We came here to offer our service to those who are fighting for our survival and rights. We were assigned the duty of preparing food. When we return, others will take our place. We will come back if the need arises.” The farmers said the relays also helped in ensuring that they were able to take care of their farmlands. Avatar Singh, another farmer from Punjab, said, “Many Delhiites are coming here to give us food, warm clothes and newspapers. We are happy with the support.”Many locals had opened their houses and shops so that they could use the toilets, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/younger-farmers-make-relay-trips-to-keep-supplies-intact/articleshow/79573325.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
December 5, 2020||Madurai||Form wing to act against offences reported in media: HC to govt||Madurai: Taking suo motu cognizance of a news report about a drunk policeman attempting to misbehave with a woman at Sankarankoil bus stand in Tenkasi district, the Madras high court on Friday asked the Tamil Nadu government to form a separate wing to monitor and take action against offences reported in media and social media.Such a wing would help officials monitor them and bring them to the notice of the concerned authorities for action against the offenders, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said. “This kind of action is necessary as crimes against women and children are increasing day by day. This would enable the people to get confidence in the system,” observed the judges. The judges cited a newspaper report published about an incident where a constable attached to the Tamil Nadu special police force, who was in an inebriated condition, hurled expletives at a woman belonging to the narikurava community at Sankarankoil bus stand on Thursday.Though the public had caught hold of the cop and handed him over to the police and a video in this regard had gone viral, no action was taken against the policeman. The incident where a policeman misbehaving with a woman at a bus stand would pave way for perverts to take advantage of the situation and cause danger to women, observed the judges.The judges said it was not only in this case but in many such offences reported by media social and media, no action was taken. They observed that the authorities could not expect the public to lodge complaints when commission of such offences was reported in the media.The judges also observed that the issue was an eye opener and hence it was appropriate to initiate a suo motu public interest litigation to give appropriate direction against such commission of offences posted in the media. The judges impleaded the authorities including chief secretary, home secretary and director general of police and sought response from the state government with regard to formation of the separate wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/form-wing-to-act-against-offences-reported-in-media-hc-to-govt/articleshow/79574216.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘50% of Covid patients had delayed admission’||AHMEDABAD: Sunanda Shah, 49, a resident of Ellisbridge, had recently been to a wedding ceremony. She started having trouble breathing. “She was brought to the hospital with henna still on her hands. After the admission, she said that she was having some issues for past couple of days, but as she did not want to spoil the festivities, she decided to consult the doctors after the ceremony was over. Fortunately, she did not develop severe symptoms and she is currently recuperating on oxygen supply,” said a city-based doctor. Post Diwali festivities, the city-based hospitals have seen surge in patients. “But compared to the first wave, this time we see change in patient profile,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, CEO of HCG and chairman of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). “Typically, the patients that have come in are above 50 years of age and about half the patients require oxygen or ICU facility. It could be attributed to delay in the admission.” Namisha Gandhi, vice-president of Sterling Hospitals, said that often the patients have confidence that they are under home care and thus they don’t require hospitalization. “It could not be substitute for the medical treatment. We advise against administering drugs or taking oxygen on their own. A doctor should be in the loop about the patient’s condition so that they could quickly flag the criticality,” she said. “Delayed admission could also mean more criticality and sometimes more chances of mortality for the Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Nishita Shukla, group COO of Shalby Hospitals. Dr Falguni Iyer, critical care specialist at Shalby Hospitals, said that for the past fortnight, their ICU and ventilator beds have not remained empty for a day. “Home care should be adopted only after medical advice,” she said. Dr Dhvani Parikh, Covid-19 coordinator with a city-based hospital, said that home care is good for mild and moderate symptoms. “But the patients and relatives must be vigilant to identify the signs of distress quickly and get the patient admitted to save life and prevent further complications,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50-of-covid-patients-had-delayed-admission/articleshow/79571978.cms||Parth Shastri
December 5, 2020||Kochi||65 officials on duty at Edamalakkudy||IDUKKI: The 13 polling booths in the remote Edamalakkudy tribal panchayat -- inside Munnar wildlife division -- will be manned by 65 officials, the district administration said. “Of the 65 persons who conveyed willingness to take up duty in Edamalakkudy only four have withdrawn. A list of 20 additional officials has been prepared in case more persons opt out,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. “Sixty-five officials will manage the 13 booths in Edamalakkudy. These officials and security personnel will leave for the polling stations before 7am on Monday,” said Premkrishnan. “We will provide additional EVMs to ensure glitch-free polling. Nooradikudy is the remotest booth on the Tamil Nadu border. The TN government’s permission was sought to move election officials and materials to Nooradikudy through the Valparai route,” he said. The first set of polling materials will be distributed to the Edamalakkudy team, Idukki collector H Dineshan toldTOI. “In this election we will not be using the more expensive ham radio service for election updates from remote areas, including Edamalakkudy. Police have informed us that their wireless facility is more than capable of passing information from all parts of the district. They have verified signal reception even from the remotest areas,” said Dineshan. Ham radios were used in previous elections in Edamalakkudy to transmit real-time election news. State election commissioner Teeka Ram Meena had earlier said ham radio and satellite communication will be provided for remote booths in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/65-officials-on-duty-at-edamalakkudy/articleshow/79570943.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Youth trying to pacify friend’s rivals killed||NAGPUR: Gulshan Kanojiya, 25, who tried to make peace with his friend’s rivals, was killed by two assailants in Goa Colony under the jurisdiction of Sadar police on late Thursday night. The victim was a resident of Dhobipura. Senior inspector Mahesh Bansode told TOI that a trivial issue led to the murder. According to Bansode, one Akshay Kulsunge had a fight with Bunty Qureshi over staring on Thursday morning. Later, Kulsunge narrated the incident to Asif, his batch mate and Bunty’s elder brother. A patchup meeting was organized at Mangalwari Chowk on Thursday night between the two groups. With Kalsunge not turning up for the meeting, the two groups indulged in a fight and later, went their own ways. Once again, both the groups tried for a compromise and met at Goa Colony. The trivial issue turned into tragedy when Karan Madavi, a resident of Mohan Nagar, Sohail Ali (New Colony), Anshul Singh (Jagdish Nagar, Hazaripahad) and their other accomplices attacked Kanojia with a knife and iron rods. Kanojia sustained serious injuries. On hearing his screams for help, nearby residents rushed to rescue Kanojia. While the other assailants fled, residents caught hold of Madavi and handed him over to the police. An autorickshaw driver rushed the profusely-bleeding Kanojiya to Mayo Hospital where he died. Sadar police registered a case under sections 302 & 304 of the IPC and are probing further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-trying-to-pacify-friends-rivals-killed/articleshow/79571974.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Madurai||Make available oxygen cylinders at siddha Covid care centres: HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday directed the state government to make available oxygen cylinders at all the siddha Covid-19 care centres established in the state.The court was hearing a batch of petitions, including a plea which sought the state government to allocate sufficient funds to set up an exclusive siddha treatment centre for Covid-19 along with inpatient facilities in all the districts.The additional government pleader submitted that the state government had set up 33 exclusive siddha Covid-19 care centres across the state but oxygen cylinders were not made available at these centres.Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that no one knows how the Covid-19 virus would react on the patients. The judges observed that since there is a possibility of patients developing breathing problems, oxygen cylinders should be available at the siddha centres in case of emergencies.Hence, the judges gave the direction to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/make-available-oxygen-cylinders-at-siddha-covid-care-centres-hc/articleshow/79574222.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||India||ED wants fugitive tag for Mirchi kin||NEW DELHI: In an important step to secure the deportation of underworld don Iqbal Mirchi’s widow Hazra Memon and sons Asif and Junaid from the UK, the Enforcement Directorate has moved a Mumbai court to get them declared ‘fugitive economic offenders’, besides seeking confiscation of their properties in India and Dubai worth Rs 800 crore. The properties include Ceejay House in Worli, Mumbai. The three are absconding and are suspected to be in the UK, having fled Dubai after the ED obtained non-bailable warrants against them a few months ago. The assets that ED has sought to confiscate include two floors of Ceejay House, belonging to an influential family which had given the 14,000 sq feet flats to Hazra when Mirchi was alive. As per ED, the two flats are estimated to be worth Rs 96 crore. “In the application, prayer has been made to order for confiscation of their assets as envisaged under FEOA (Fugitive Economic Offenders Act). In the first phase, prayer has been made for confiscation of 15 properties in India,” it said. The family in question has claimed that no financial transaction was involved in the deal — an assertion which has drawn eye-rolls in the agency. ED has sought the court’s permission to file a supplementary chargesheet against others involved with the late don’s money laundering cartel. ED sources suspect Hazra and her sons to be running Mirchi’s international drug syndicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-wants-fugitive-tag-for-mirchi-kin/articleshow/79575149.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||JMM, BJP fire fresh salvos as farmer issues gather heat||Ranchi: BJP will launch a protest and hit the streets if the Jharkhand government does not resume stalled paddy procurement from farmers, the party’s state organizing secretary Aditya Sahu said, accusing the Hemant Soren government of not fulfilling its promises and imposing a series of orders that caused problems to the people. Addressing a press conference, Sahu said, “There is no synergy within the government. While food and civil supplies minister Rameshwar Oraon stalled paddy procurement stating that the crop was still moist, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh remains ignorant about the plight of the farmers and is touring Chhattisgarh. Because of this, our farmers are in distress.” He added, “During the sowing season, the government failed to provide fertilizers to farmers. Thankfully, the farmers had a good harvest due to good monsoon. Congress, in its poll manifesto, had promised to waive off farm loans within two months of forming government. That did not happen either,” he said. Sahu said the decision to stall paddy procurement was one among a series of authoritarian calls taken by the Soren government in the last 11 months, which it eventually had to withdraw. On Thursday, BJP’s Bankura MP Subhash Sarkar, who was appointed the deputy national in-charge of Jharkhand, had announced to release an ‘Aarop Patra’ against the JMM-Congress-RJD government on December 29, which will mark a year of the Soren government. JMM retorted to Sarkar’s announcement. “They can bring their Aarop Patra, but they should also reflect on the condition they left Jharkhand in. BJP should not preach when thousands of farmers have dug their heels outside Delhi to protest the Centre’s new farm laws,” JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-bjp-fire-fresh-salvos-as-farmer-issues-gather-heat/articleshow/79571476.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Goa||Parts of Mapusa plagued by water shortage issues||Saligao: Several parts of Mapusa have been reeling under a shortage of drinking water for some weeks now. Morod, Ansabhat, Ghateshwar Nagar, Feira Alta are only some of the areas where residents are getting piped supply on alternative days. Residents are hence left to depend on water tankers to meet their requirement. Officials of the PWD said that these areas are facing an issue as they are located on an elevation. Assistant engineer at PWD office in Mapusa, Mahesh Kenawdekar, “Due to the high altitude, water pressure cannot reach them and so they receive water in trickle or there is no water at all. We are supplying water tankers to these areas.” Locals, however, allege diversion of water to commercial establishments in other parts of the taluka. Other parts of Bardez too are affected from poor water supply. It may be recalled that recently residents of Guddem in Siolim, had led a protest to the PWD water supply sub division II, Mapusa, for not being supplied water for 15 days at a stretch. President of the voluntary service organisation Samarthan Sanghatana, Nilesh Vernekar, said that Guddem-Siolim residents were facing irregular supply issues for close to a year now. “We do not have water supply for the last eight days so now the residents have taken a decision to boycott the upcoming zilla panchayat elections. We will not come out to vote,” Vernekar said.  Assistant engineer at PWD office in Mapusa, Mahesh Kenawdekar, said, “Due to the high altitude, water pressure cannot reach them and so they receive water in trickles or there is no water at all. We are supplying water tankers to these areas”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-mapusa-plagued-by-water-shortage-issues/articleshow/79573365.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand ranks third in country in reducing malaria cases: WHO||RANCHI: With a nearly 35% decline in malaria cases in 2019, Jharkhand has finished third in the malaria elimination program in the country. The ranking was awarded on the basis of the ‘World Malaria Report 2020’ prepared by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The survey was conducted based on mathematical projections of the progress made by endemic zones in reducing the malaria burden. According to the report, a total of 34.96% dip in malaria cases was reported across the state in 2019 in comparison to 2018. The north-eastern state of Meghalaya topped the chart by reducing malaria cases by 59%, followed by Odisha at 40%. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “This is a result of regular surveillance and the proper implementation of the ‘High Burden to High Impact’ programme initiated by the WHO. The program was implemented across the country under the National Framework of Malaria Elimination, which is being run by the Union government.” On being asked about the measures taken by the state government to control malaria, Kulkarni said: “Mass fever surveys, distribution of long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) and regular indoor residual spraying at breeding points in endemic districts helped us achieve the feat and we are sure that malaria will be eliminated by 2030, in tandem with the Union government’s target.” Notably, 11,071 malaria cases have been detected in the state this year. Whereas, 31,478 cases were reported last year between January and October. This means that the state has witnessed a further decline of 64% in malaria cases. On being contacted, state malaria officer Dr S N Jha said: “The results are very encouraging and Latehar and Deoghar districts have shown immense improvement with a surveillance rate of more than 10%. We had set a target of covering 47,38,925 persons across 4,098 villages from May to October, out of which more than 70% have been covered. We have distributed over 55 lakh LLINs received from the Centre and more than 20 lakh LLINs are yet to be distributed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-ranks-third-in-country-in-reducing-malaria-cases-who/articleshow/79570877.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||15-year-old girl gang-raped by 3 in Sindri, 1 held||SINDRI: In yet another incident in the state, a 15-year-old girl of Class IX was gangraped by three on Thursday night in Dhanbad’s Sindri. While the main accused has been arrested and sent to judicial custody, a search is on to nab the two others. Inspector in-charge of Sindri police station Raj Kapur said, “The girl, who works as a sevadaar at a local Shiva temple, had befriended a youth identified as Krishna Vishwakarma, who works at a local cycle repairing shop. On Thursday night around 8pm, Krishna took her to a secluded place near a water tower in SL2 colony and raped her. Krishna allegedly invited two of his friends who too took turns and raped her. When she did not return home till late in the night, the family members started searching and found her in a semi-conscious state.” He added, “After she regained consciousness, she narrated her ordeal following which, the family members informed police and Krishna was arrested. The two others are absconding.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/15-year-old-girl-gang-raped-by-3-in-sindri-1-held/articleshow/79687090.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||Fresh drive to remove encroachments from Sakchi market in JSR||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district administration carried out an anti-encroachment drive at Sakchi market here on Friday. Several vendors had illegally put up stalls on the footpath, leading to overcrowding and, in turn, resulting in violation of social distancing norms. A team led by ADM Nand Kishore Lal and officials of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee removed the encroachments. A large police contingent was also deployed near the roundabout to maintain the law and order situation in the area. The administration has earmarked Aambagan Maidan, which is 300 meters from the main market area, as an alternative site for the vendors. Lal said arrangements have been made at the Aambagan Maidan keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols. “As the ground is spacious, customers can shop there while maintaining social distancing norms,” he added. The vendors protested against the move of the administration and blocked traffic near the Sakchi roundabout for more than 30 minutes on Friday morning. The blockade was lifted after the officials gave the agitators the assurance that all necessary provisions would be put in place at the maidan. However, some vendors were still not convinced. Ravi Paramanik, a footwear seller, said that the administration had tried to shift them earlier too, but had failed in its mission. He said that the whole exercise would turn out to be futile this time as well. Paramanik said that those who had shifted to Aambagan faced huge losses and were forced to return to the original site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/fresh-drive-to-remove-encroachments-from-sakchi-market-in-jsr/articleshow/79571315.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 5, 2020||Vadodara||Class X boy killed for hurling abuses in Gujarat||VADODARA: The murder of Class X boy from Dena village has turned out to be revenge killing by his own friends who also planned to make some quick money by selling his gold chain. Late on Friday evening, police arrested two teenagers, both 18 years old and one detained their 16-year-old friend. The spot near Dena village where Ankit’s body was dumpedThe body of victim Ankit Prajapati, son of a furniture maker, was found about 15 km from the village. Primary investigation revealed that a fight over hurling expletive enraged one of his friends, Vyom alias Anil Bharwad, so much that he plotted the murder. Vyom was arrested along with Dilip Bharwad, both 18, along with the 16-year-old. Late on Friday evening, police arrested two teenagers, both 18 years old Vyom had brutally stabbed Ankit in the moving car which was being driven by Dilip, said police. “On November 30, Ankit was hanging out with Vyom near a paan shop where they got into a verbal tiff. Ankit hurled expletives at Vyom which angered him,” said J D Sarvaiya, senior PSI, taluka police station. “Vyom then planned to kill Ankit with the help of his friends. He decided to invite Ankit for a car ride under the pretext of borrowing his gold chain. On Wednesday, he asked Ankit to lend him his chain,” said Sarvaiya. Ankit persuaded his mother to lend the chain to Vyom and she agreed after initial reluctance. Ankit then left his house in Vyom’s car. When he didn’t return for a few hours, his mother called up Vyom who said that Ankit wasn’t with him. Ankit’s parents then filed a missing person complaint at Panigate police station. Meanwhile, Ankit’s body was spotted by passers-by on Thursday on Dena village road. “Vyom went missing after Ankit’s body was recovered, but we arrested him on Friday. He admitted to having stabbed Ankit several times when their car was passing from Golden Chowkdi on the national highway 48,” Sarvaiya told TOI. While Vyom and Dilip are both SSC failed, the minor accused is studying in class X. Vyom and Dilip had come in contact with Ankit through some common friends and they used to hangout often. They had planned to dump the body in Mahi River, but changed the plan after seeing lot of crowd on Vasad Road. They took the car towards Dena and dumped Ankit’s body at an isolated spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/class-x-boy-killed-for-hurling-abuses/articleshow/79571593.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Hindu outfit asks Guv to bring anti-‘love jihad’ law||Ranchi: A delegation of members of saffron outfit Hindu Jagran Manch (HJM) on Friday met Governor Droupadi Murmu and asked her to intervene and create an effective law to prevent “love jihad” cases in state. In a memorandum submitted to the Governor, HJM state president Rishi Shahdeo claimed hundreds of such cases are reaching the courts in the state every year in which a man from one community conceals his identity and marries a girl from another before pressurizing the girl to convert. He said the victims are not getting justice in absence of a strict law. Shahdeo said, “HJM is not against inter-faith marriages. We are opposing marriages in which girls are duped into believing that the boy belongs to the same religion as her. HJM has rescued several girls from this trap in past year.” He alleged that certain organisations like People Front of India is also active in promoting “love jihad” and adivasi girls are also falling prey to such scamsters. Pointing out that former national shooter Tara Sahdeo of Jharkhand had also claimed to be a victim of “love Jihad” in 2014, the HJM state president said the matter is with the CBI even as the complainant is awaiting justice. He said a strict law would not only prevent such crime but also provide justice to the victims. Notably, HJM had also staged a day-long dharna in front of Mahatama Gandhi statue in Morabadi on November 9 to highlight their demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hindu-outfit-asks-guv-to-bring-anti-love-jihad-law/articleshow/79571600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand ranks third in country in reducing malaria cases: WHO||RANCHI: With a nearly 35% decline in malaria cases in 2019, Jharkhand has finished third in the malaria elimination program in the country. The ranking was awarded on the basis of the ‘World Malaria Report 2020’ prepared by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The survey was conducted based on mathematical projections of the progress made by endemic zones in reducing the malaria burden. According to the report, a total of 34.96% dip in malaria cases was reported across the state in 2019 in comparison to 2018. The north-eastern state of Meghalaya topped the chart by reducing malaria cases by 59%, followed by Odisha at 40%. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “This is a result of regular surveillance and the proper implementation of the ‘High Burden to High Impact’ programme initiated by the WHO. The program was implemented across the country under the National Framework of Malaria Elimination, which is being run by the Union government.” On being asked about the measures taken by the state government to control malaria, Kulkarni said: “Mass fever surveys, distribution of long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) and regular indoor residual spraying at breeding points in endemic districts helped us achieve the feat and we are sure that malaria will be eliminated by 2030, in tandem with the Union government’s target.” Notably, 11,071 malaria cases have been detected in the state this year. Whereas, 31,478 cases were reported last year between January and October. This means that the state has witnessed a further decline of 64% in malaria cases. On being contacted, state malaria officer Dr S N Jha said: “The results are very encouraging and Latehar and Deoghar districts have shown immense improvement with a surveillance rate of more than 10%. We had set a target of covering 47,38,925 persons across 4,098 villages from May to October, out of which more than 70% have been covered. We have distributed over 55 lakh LLINs received from the Centre and more than 20 lakh LLINs are yet to be distributed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-ranks-third-in-country-in-reducing-malaria-cases-who/articleshow/79579688.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC asks jail authorities for report on Lalu Prasad flouting norms||RANCHI: Taking serious note of frequent reports of former Bihar chief minister and RJD president Lalu Prasad violating the jail manual and meeting unauthorized visitors while serving a prison term, the Jharkhand high court on Friday directed the Birsa Munda central jail authorities to furnish a detailed report in the matter. Hearing a case pertaining to an appeal filed by Lalu against his conviction with regards to withdrawal of funds from the Dumka treasury, the court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh said the jailor should submit the report before the bench before the case is heard again on December 18. The court has also asked the jail authorities about the provision to provide an attendant (sewadar) to a convict serving a sentence. It was brought to the notice of the high court that Lalu had an attendant at his service while he was under detention at Kelly’s Bungalow, the official residence of the Rims director, as a precautionary measure to protect him from Covid. The CBI informed the court that violation of the jail manual and charges of trying to lure legislators in Bihar has been registered as a separate FIR against the ailing RJD chief. An audio clip of Lalu talking to a Bihar BJP legislator to influence the election of the Speaker of the assembly had gone viral last month. The court was further informed that Lalu has been meeting party workers, supporters and several other visitors round the clock without any checks. After the matter hit national headlines, Lalu has now been shifted back to the paying ward in Rims. A separate public interest litigation in the same matter was filed on Monday by Manish Kumar, a resident of Bihar and a law graduate. The petitioner has alleged jail manual violations and "misuse" of the bungalow of the Rims director by the Lalu. The PIL, however, is yet to be taken up by the court for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-asks-jail-authorities-for-report-on-lalu-flouting-norms/articleshow/79571546.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi gets 94 new Cov cases, highest in a month||RANCHI: The number of active Covid cases in the state rose marginally for the second consecutive day as Jharkhand reported 219 fresh infections, 206 recoveries and one death on Friday. As per government data, as many as 1,09,990 people have been infected by the virus till date while 1,07,074 have recovered and 978 have died. A total of 1,938 persons are still battling infection. Ranchi reported the only Covid death on Friday and also accounted for almost 45% of the new cases with 94 patients testing positive -- the highest one day figure since November 5. Only Bokaro (25 cases), Dhanbad (24), East Singhbhum (19) and Deoghar (11) reprted new cases in double digits while Latehar, Lohardaga, Saraikela and Simdega reported none.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-gets-94-new-cov-cases-highest-in-a-month/articleshow/79571562.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM asks edu officials to set up schools at par with CBSE ones||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday directed officials of the department of higher and technical education to set up schools in all the five divisions of Jharkhand next year that will be at par with the CBSE-affiliated ones. Soren asked the officials concerned to set up the necessary infrastructure on a war footing in the new schools. He also directed them to ensure periodic training of teachers across all the 35,000 government schools in a bid to improve the quality of education, a statement issued by the state public relations department said. Soren also asked the department officials to tie up with premier coaching institutes to impart training to engineering and medical aspirants from the state-run schools. The tie up will be done under the state’s flagship Akasha scheme, the statement read. The statement added that the copies supplied to the students of government schools will be produced by inmates lodged in jails across Jharkhand. Some of the pages in the copies will have photographs covering a wide range of social causes and thereby create awareness among the students regarding them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-asks-edu-officials-to-set-up-schools-at-par-with-cbse-ones/articleshow/79571544.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Jayant Sinha urges Jharkhand CM to expedite land acquisition process for Hazaribag airport||HAZARIBAG: Expressing disappointment at the state government for “not taking any measure to expedite the land acquisition process” for the proposed Hazaribag airport, MP Jayant Sinha on Friday wrote to chief minister Hemant Soren, asking him to take urgent steps towards the acquisition of 250 acres of land in Nagwa and Churchu villages for the construction of the airdrome. Sinha, who served as a minister of state in the Union ministry of civil aviation, said, “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has given its approval for the project and already sanctioned Rs 194 crore for it. The bhumi pujan (groundbreaking ceremony which was attended by former CM Raghubar Das and Sinha) was done ahead of the Lok Sabha polls (on March 6 last year) so that the work does not suffer. But the then state government and the current ruling dispensation did not take any measures to expedite the land acquisition process. The present government’s inaction is delaying the construction while work on Deoghar airport is complete.” In 2017, the state government and AAI signed an agreement to construct the airport in a joint venture as part of Centre’s Udaan scheme. Once complete, the airport will connect Hazaribag with Kolkata and Patna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jayant-urges-cm-to-expedite-land-acquisition-process-for-hazaribag-airport/articleshow/79571613.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Gathbandhan MLAs flag problems to Hemant||Ranchi: The lawmakers from the ruling mahagathbandhan gathered at the banquet hall of a hotel in Ranchi on Friday evening to deliberate upon the state government’s achievements, shortfalls and challenges in its first year in office. Chief minister Hemant Soren and his cabinet colleagues sought the opinion of their lawmakers in a closed-door meeting that lasted nearly 90 minutes. Labour minister and RJD MLA Satyanand Bhokta skipped the meeting. The assembly, which was hosted by Soren, came three weeks ahead of his schedule to make his government’s performance report public on December 29. “It was a general gathering to broadly discuss the government’s works. The MLAs apprised the CM of the problems in their respective constituencies. The CM took a note of the problems and assured to look into them at the earliest,” finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said after the meeting. While Soren skipped conversation with the media and rode home in his brand new BMW, water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thakur said the gathering was relaxed and informal. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, our lawmakers are stressed. The objective was to provide them a relaxed setting where all can gather and interact with one another,” Thakur said. However, several lawmakers present in the meeting expressed their concerns on the slow pace of development in the past 11 months. Thakur, however, defended the government. “In the first few months before the outbreak, the government was grappling for ways to come out of the financial crisis which it inherited from the previous government. Albeit the development has slowed down due to the pandemic and many poll promises are yet to be fulfilled,” he said. Oraon and Thakur claimed that several pertinent issues, such as appointment of the tribal advisory council and cabinet expansion, were left out of Friday’s meeting. Lawmakers present in the meeting also said Soren congratulated JMM and Congress MLAs for the victory in Dumka and Bermo bypolls, which were held last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/gathbandhan-mlas-flag-problems-to-hemant/articleshow/79571536.cms||Dhritiman Ray
December 5, 2020||Ranchi||Covid scare for band, baaja, baraat||Ranchi: With the month-long wedding season in progress and health experts raising concerns over these gatherings turning into Covid-19 superspreader events, the Ranchi district administration has taken a slew of measures to curb the spread of the virus during celebrations. Among other measures, the authorities have limited the number of guests at a wedding to 200 and asked marriage parties to not hold any celebrations on roads and public places. Talking to TOI, Ranchi SDM Sameera S said: “We have directed all marriage hall owners as well as those organising weddings at their houses to strictly adhere to the state’s Covid-19 guidelines.” Caterers hopping between weddings and attending to guests who may have come from across the country, are the most vulnerable to infection and should be tested frequently, doctors have suggested “They are the ones who spend the most time in the crowded in dining halls, which lack proper ventilation. Since they are also involved in preparing food, they must be tested regularly,” a health expert earlier told TOI. Sameera also said the administration has asked service providers like caterers to get themselves tested prior to participating in marriage celebrations so that the chances of the latter infecting a large number of people can be reduced. Meanwhile, sources in the district administration said that they were working on a plan to map the service providers during the wedding season. The banquet hall owners in the city have also taken a few steps to keep the celebrations safe. Seating arrangements in halls are made in such a way that there is distance between two seats and guests are advised to use hand sanitisers and wear masks. Some are even playing audio clippings at the venues highlighting the need to follow Covid-19 protocols. The proprietor of Firayalal banquet hall, Ritul Munjal, said: “We play an audio after every 20 minutes during the event requesting the guests to maintain pandemic norms. We have also installed hand sanitizer dispensers and thermal scanners at entry points and have made markings at the venue so that the guests can follow social distancing.” Niraj Kumar Srivastava, the manager of Swarna Bhumi banquet, said: “We are requesting our customers to not exceed the guest list limit of 200 and are conducting thermal scanning at the gates. We are also providing masks to each and every guest if they are coming to the venue without wearing one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/covid-scare-for-band-baaja-baraat/articleshow/79571292.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 5, 2020||India||Modi government didn’t face anything like this in 6 years: Sena||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena has said that “Superman” Narendra Modi’s government has never faced trouble like this in the past six years. Sena mouthpiece Saamna, in an editorial on Friday, stated the farmers have broken the notion that PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah cannot bow before anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-government-didnt-face-anything-like-this-in-6-years-sena/articleshow/79575153.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 5, 2020||Goa||Diversion has degraded Kalasa nullah: Activists||Keri: Social activists from Goa under the banner of Progressive Front of Goa (PFG) visited the Kalasa project site in Kankumbi and were surprised to see water of the Kalasa nallah flowing into the opposite direction into the Malprabha in Karnataka. “When the petition by Mhadei Bachao Abhiyan was disposed of in 2017 by the Supreme Court, Karnataka government had agreed not to divert and utilise water of the Kalasa nallah. However, when we visited the site, we saw two conduits carry water of the Kalasa, while a third conduit to the Malprabha river,” said Mahesh Mahambrey of PFG. Hrudaynath Shirodkar said that the violation by Karnataka is clearly visible. “Though, the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal has permitted to divert 3.9 TMC through Kalasa Bhandura Project, it is mandatory for Karnataka to obtain necessary environmental and other permissions to divert water,” he said. Prajal Sakhardande, who was on the site, said that Karnataka has , while completing work of the Kalasa Project totally degraded the Kalasa nallah from its source at Rameshwar temple in Kankumbi. “Thus, Karnataka has prevented natural flow of water in Goa’s direction.The portion of Parwad nallah confluence going to Goa has dried up. This will have serious implications on Goa.” The team said they saw how the natural flow of the Kalasa has been diverted has been curtailed and water is flowing to the Malprabha basin through underground and open cut canal. They expressed resentment against Goa government for not taking sufficient steps for stopping work of Kalasa project that is in progress since 2006.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/diversion-has-degraded-kalasa-nullah-activists/articleshow/79573413.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 5, 2020||Goa||‘Invest in solar power to meet state’s need’||PANAJI: Goyant Kollso Naka (GKN) has demanded that budgetary provision made for the high tension power transmission line and power sub-station in Goa be used to provide solar rooftop installations to citizens in the state to make Goa self-sufficient in its power requirement. The organisation has written to principal secretary (forests) seeking cancellation of the permission granted to fell 18,000 trees in Mollem for the 400kv power transmission line project. “Goa must achieve its target of 358MW of solar power by 2022 through decentralised, roof top installations. Due to this solar power target, there is absolutely no justification for the expensive, destructive and unsustainable transmission lines project, which must therefore be scrapped,” GKN’s Abhijit Prabhudesai said. He said solar and other renewable power sources will also contribute to reduction of global warming and help Goa achieve self-sufficiency for its power need. “The budgetary allocation for the transmission lines must be used for providing free solar installations to every villager in Goa,” Prabhudesai said. He said GKN has written to Goa government’s principal secretary (forests) and the deputy inspector general of forests (central) in Bengaluru seeking withdrawal of permissions to fell 18,000 trees in Mollem for the power transmission line and sub-station project. “The population of Goa is shocked and enraged by the grant of the Stage-II Forest Clearance for the construction of the 400 kV/DC transmission lines from Xeldem to Mapusa involving the diversion of 69.41Ha of forest lands and cutting of over 18,000 trees, or a part thereof, for a project that is not only completely unnecessary, but is also completely against public interest and government policies,” Prabhudesai said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/invest-in-solar-power-to-meet-states-need/articleshow/79573451.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||Garbage plant staff’s hand hurt in shredder||Valpoi: A labourer working on daily wages for the Valpoi Municipal Council was severely injured after his hand got trapped in a shredder machine at the garbage treatment plant (GTP) at Sayyad Nagar, Valpoi. According to officials of the Valpoi fire and emergency services, Mahadev Babli Gawade, 55, was carrying out segregation and deposition of garbage on Friday morning at the treatment plant, when his right hand accidentally got trapped in a running shredder. He suffered severe damage to his fingers. Valpoi fire services personnel were called to rescue him. Other labourers, with the help of fire personnel, managed to get his hand out from the machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-plant-staffs-hand-hurt-in-shredder/articleshow/79573486.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||9x jump in drugs seizure in FY20, DRI data show||NEW DELHI: With air travel curtailed, smugglers are increasingly taking the land route to get gold and narcotics into the country with the high-profile seizure allegedly linked to a diplomat and a senior government official seen to be a further deterrent. Post-lockdown, which also saw a fall in smuggling, recent seizures by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence have revealed increased instances of gold being brought into the country via Myanmar, with even drug smugglers taking the route. But with the resumption of flights, those dealing in illicit shipments are expected to return to the aerial route to get goods into India. “What has also helped is greater coordination among agencies, which was evident during the last financial year,” said a DRI officer. During the last financial year, data released by the agency showed there was a massive spurt in the seizure of narcotics, with the increase in shipments seized by agencies estimated at over Rs 4,500 crore, a jump of almost nine times compared to 2018-19. The seizures catapulted narcotics to the top of league tables during the last financial year, overtaking gold by a long margin. The former has emerged as favourite for smugglers since Pranab Mukherjee imposed customs duty in the hope that higher prices will deter Indians from purchasing the yellow metal. Far from it, the practice continued by his three successors has helped create a parallel industry and turned gold into an important revenue generator, which will require a shift in strategy for any finance minister to remove or lower tariffs. Diamonds seemed to be the other favourite with exports with a massive spurt in illicit consignments being detected and seized by the agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9x-jump-in-drugs-seizure-in-fy20-dri-data-show/articleshow/79575174.cms||Sidhartha
December 5, 2020||Goa||At public hearing, no protest to airport terminal expansion||Panaji: In a rare departure for Goa, nobody objected to the Airports Authority of India’s plans to expand the terminal building during the environmental public hearing conducted by the Goa State Pollution Control Board. Unlike earlier public hearings, which are often a passionate affair in Goa, Just six people registered to express their views on the Rs 131 crore terminal expansion. Of these, just two showed up in person, while two attended virtually. “All the proceedings of the public hearing have been recorded and they will be submitted to an expert appraisal committee,” South Goa collector Ajit Roy said. “That committee will examine everything and they will submit their recommendations to the government and then the final decision will be taken.” Goans For Dabolim (GFDO) convenor Fr Eremito Rebello was the first to speak and he supported AAI’s decision to expand the airport. “This project is not going to cause any environmental damage,” Rebello said. The priest did voice a concern about the possibility of the airport being handed over to a private company in the future. “My only fear is that after expansion, AAI will hand it over to a private player or an industrialist. The airport should remain in the hands of the government,” Rebello said. Vasco-resident Savio Correia was the next to speak and he too supported the project. “For the first time a non-polluting project is being proposed in Goa. It will boost the economy,” he said. What Correia did have a problem with was the way the public hearing was conducted. Correia, however, identified discrepancies in the Environmental Impact Assessment report, particularly the water requirement for the terminal building. He also said that for a terminal that is designed to cater to 11.2 million passengers in a year, there should be at least 3,000 parking slots for cars and 100 parking slots for buses. “This public hearing is a farce and I demand the public hearing be adjourned and reconvened on another day,” Correia said. Roy, who presided over the meeting, said that he was satisfied with the way the public hearing was conducted.“This being a small project and as it does not concern the outside world much, very few participants registered. Total six of them registered and they were given an opportunity to speak. Their concerns were responded to by the project proponents and they have been taken note of and this will be submitted to the expert appraisal committee,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-public-hearing-no-protest-to-airport-terminal-expansion/articleshow/79573663.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 5, 2020||Goa||CISF jawan helps return bag with Rs 4.8 lakh cash||Vasco: CISF personnel on Friday returned the baggage of Indian playback singer and actress Khushboo Grewal with Rs 4.85 lakh cash, which she had left behind at the Dabolim airport. Grewal was contacted over the phone and called back to the airport to pick the bag up. CISF said at about 2.56pm on Friday, CISF personnel R Pradhan noticed a bag near arrival belt no. 2 and 3. The security was immediately alerted and enquiries were made with few passengers around. Finally, the Bomb Disposal Squad was called at the site. The squad thoroughly checked the bag with all the SOPs and declared it safe. Later the physical checking of the bag was done. During the physical check-up, cash worth Rs 4.85 lakh was found. After checking CCTV footage it was known that the bag belonged to Khushboo Grewal, who had arrived by a flight from Mumbai. They retrieved her details and then contacted her to collect the bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cisf-jawan-helps-return-bag-with-rs-4-8-lakh-cash/articleshow/79573676.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Goa||All Goa decisions taken by state unit: AAP||PANAJI: Reacting to the resignation of former state convenor Elvis Gomes from the membership of the party, AAP’s Goa convener Rahul Mhambre termed Gomes’ allegations as baseless. “All decisions regarding Goa are taken here by the party members from Goa,” Mhambre said, refuting the charge that the state unit’s decisions are taken from Delhi. Regarding chief ministerial candidate, he said “It was Arvind Kejriwal who announced that Elvis was the convener of AAP in Goa Now was that also a Delhi boss decision?” he asked. He said when people do not get their wishes fulfilled, they look for excuses and added that it was unfortunate that Gomes had to resort to misleading people about AAP functioning. He nonetheless said that the party recognises the contribution of all leaders including those who have now left the party. “In the last couple of years some of our best volunteers and leaders were sidelined by a select coterie and they are all slowly coming back to the party as they know their voice will be heard and they will get a chance to work for Goans again,” Mhambre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-goa-decisions-taken-by-state-unit-aap/articleshow/79573690.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||PM’s involvement boosts police chiefs’ meet||NEW DELHI: Notwithstanding the ‘virtual’ mode of this year’s conference of police chiefs, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured his full involvement by giving a good 15 hours of his time in the ongoing deliberations that conclude on Saturday. Since 2014, Modi has attended all business sessions of the DGPs/IGPs conference, unlike earlier years when participation of the prime minister was limited to one address, usually in the inaugural session. This year too, he has sat through the virtual sessions stretching over 3-4 hours each evening. The change since 2014 has facilitated one-to-one interaction of chiefs of state and UT police with the prime minister, resulting in a convergence of views on crucial security and policing challenges and emergence of doable recommendations, an official told TOI. Interestingly, with the conference being held in ‘virtual’ mode due to Covid-19 pandemic, the participation of officers has also increased – with personnel from police stations and the district level also joining in -- to make it more broad-based. The active involvement of the prime minister has seen a big shift in format, venue, topics covered, deliverables. Focused follow up and implementation of recommendations finalised has enhanced police efficiency and functioning across the country, said senior officials of the security establishment. It was on Modi's direction that the venue of the conference was shifted out of Delhi. Since 2014, the meet has been held at Guwahati, Kutch, Hyderabad, Tekanpur, Kevadia, Pune, and now in virtual space. Thanks to officers coming together the meetings serve to build a heightened sense of unity among all cadres and organisations, said an officer. The number of sessions and topics increased significantly since 2014. Besides discussing national security issues, focus has also been on improving policing on the ground, community policing, law and order and boosting image of the police. Guest speakers from different fields have been invited to share their knowledge and experiences, including Prof Ashish Nanda (management), Sanjay Katkar, MD, Quick Heal Technologies (cyber security), Dr J M Vyas, Chancellor NFSU (advanced forensics; and Marc Sageman, independent scholar on insurgency and counter terrorism, USA. Personal monitoring by the PM has resulted in a marked improvement in implementation of recommendations in last few years. Outcomes since 2014 include setting up of a National Forensic Science University (NFSU) and Raksha Shakti University to promote capacity building in scientific investigation, introduction of a system of ranking police stations, setting up of Cyber Coordination Centre (CyCord) for coordinated cybercrime response of Centre and state police forces and formation of a joint task force by the home ministry in Left-wing extremism-hit states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pms-involvement-boosts-police-chiefs-meet/articleshow/79575193.cms||Bharti Jain
December 5, 2020||India||Heroin worth Rs 3 crore in package of artificial hair from Tanzania||MUMBAI: DRI Mumbai has seized around 1kg of heroin worth Rs 3 crore from a consignment declared as artificial hair that arrived in the city from Tanzania via courier. The agency on Wednesday intercepted the consignment coming from Dar es Salaam. While examining the wigs the next day, officials found 1,007gm of brown substance. A field testing kit confirmed that it was heroin. DRI is trying to trace those involved in smuggling racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/heroin-worth-rs-3-crore-in-package-of-artificial-hair-from-tanzania/articleshow/79575204.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Record 85,000 tests, positivity rate 4.8% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 4,067 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the infection tally to 5.86 lakh. The toll rose to 9,497 with 73 more deaths. A record 85,003 tests, including 40,191 RT-PCR tests, were conducted in the last 24 hours, the health department said. Delhi's positivity rate continued to be below five per cent for the third consecutive day with only 4.78% of the total number of people who were tested for Covid-19 being diagnosed with the viral infection. On Wednesday and Thursday, the positivity rate was recorded at 5% and 4.9% respectively, indicating an ebbing of the third wave of the pandemic. The city currently has 28,252 active cases with the recovery rate being higher than the infection. Delhi has reported 5.86 lakh cases, out of which 5.48 lakh people have recovered while 9,497 patients have died. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.9% while the same rate for fatality is 1.6%. Delhi, which saw a surge in Covid cases last month, is conducting a sizeable number of tests daily for early detection. "This has been key to controlling Covid because more tests lead to the screening of more and more individuals and, thus, detection of infection," said an official. "The early detection of infection leads to immediate treatment and contact tracing and isolation, which, in turn, checks further spread of the virus," he added. In recent months, Delhi government has increased the number of RTPCR tests from 10,000 to 15,000 to 30,000 to 36,000 as it is more accurate and, hence, more reliable than rapid antigen tests. OVer 65 lakh tests have been conducted till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/record-85000-tests-positivity-rate-4-8-in-capital/articleshow/79575220.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||BJP and Uddhav must introspect: Fadnavis||MUMBAI: Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Friday said it was time for introspection for BJP as well as CM Uddhav Thackeray as BJP had won only one seat, while Shiv Sena “was not even able to even open it account” in the six council seats for which results were declared. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat and NCP leader Eknath Khadse said the MVA’s wins were an endorsement of the functioning of the one-year-old alliance government in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-and-uddhav-must-introspect-fadnavis/articleshow/79575236.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government hasn’t paid specialist doctors for two months||BENGALURU: Hundreds of senior resident doctors, who have been working in government medical college hospitals across in the state after completing their PG courses, have not been paid salary for two months. These doctors, who have been on Covid duty, were due to receive Rs 60,000 per month as stipend. But most have not been paid since October as it appears the government has not factored in the increase in senior residents reporting for mandatory one-year government service after completing their courses. Most of these doctors joined service in mid-September. While some old medical colleges in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Ballari and Hubballi have paid their doctors, some of the newer colleges like the ones in Shivamogga, Kalaburagi and Mandya are yet to disburse payment. TK Anil Kumar, principal secretary, medical education department, said the issue has been brought to the notice of the finance department and that it will be resolved soon. “Old medical colleges like the ones in Bengaluru, Ballari, Hubballi and Mysuru have all paid their senior resident doctors. Those working in medical colleges in the rest of the state will be paid soon,” he said. About 1,500 doctors with postgraduate medical degrees have to mandatorily complete stints in government institutions. Of these, close to 450 were posted for work in government hospitals under the administration of the health and family welfare department. They have been posted as duty doctors in community health centres, taluk and district hospitals. They have to be paid by the health and family welfare department. Recently the matter was brought to the notice of Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar, who told TOI, “Measures have been taken to disburse salaries for senior resident doctors.” One affected doctor said, “We have been working without pay for several months now. We are all specialists. This is a mandatory posting, but the government has failed to honour its word.” Many also alleged they were not given hostel facility close to where they work. The Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD), which broached the matter with the state government, said some of hospitals have failed to pay according to the revised salary structure. “Some hospitals have paid these doctors Rs 42,000 per month, whereas under the revised stipend structure they should get Rs 60,000 per month. This too has to be corrected,” said Dr Dayanand Sagar, president, KARD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-hasnt-paid-specialist-doctors-for-two-months/articleshow/79575235.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Delhi||Reconsider stand on keeping spas shut: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has asked the AAP government to reconsider its decision on keeping spas shut, pointing out that, when salons have opened, why not spas. The query was posed to Delhi government by Justice Navin Chawla who said prima facie there was a merit in the submission of the spa owners that if salons were allowed to operate, then they should too be permitted to function. The high court directed the government to take a fresh decision on the issue and file an affidavit within a week indicating its decision. The court was hearing two petitions where the spa owners contended that the guidelines issued by the Centre permitted spas to open subject to maintenance of social distancing and other Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. However, Delhi government had refused permission. The AAP government maintained it was not allowing spas to reopen in view of the prevailing Covid numbers in the city and employees in spas would not be able to maintain the six feet distance from the clients, as required under the norms. Delhi government further told the court that even the lieutenant governor had declined to relax the prohibitions on the operation of spas. The spa owners, however, argued that even in salons the six feet distance could not be maintained, so how were they being allowed to operate. They alleged that Delhi government was discriminating against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reconsider-stand-on-keeping-spas-shut-delhi-hc/articleshow/79575245.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||BJP heading for big win in UP MLC elections||LUCKNOW: The ruling BJP have won three seats and the Samajwadi Party bagged one in election to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council on Friday. Counting is still in progress in five other seats and the results are expected by early Saturday morning, officials said. Polling was held on Tuesday for 11 seats — five reserved for graduates and six teachers. Results of the six teachers’ seats have been declared, but the counting was delayed in the graduates’ constituencies as second and third preference votes were being tallied before the declaration of results, the election office said. A total of 199 candidates were in the fray. The teachers’ associations of BJP, SP, Congress contested the polls. The term of office of the MLCs from these constituencies expired on May 6. Earlier in the day, BJP workers had heated exchanges with police after they alleged anomalies in the counting of votes from the Allahabad-Jhansi division graduates’ constituency. SSP Dinesh Kumar P said that some people did try to enter the counting centre, but they were prevented from doing it and removed from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-heading-for-big-win-in-up-mlc-elections/articleshow/79575246.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Vadodara||Policeman caught taking Rs 30,000 bribe||Vadodara: An assistant sub-inspector posted at the Shahera police station in Panchmahal district was held after he forced a man who had stopped bootlegging to pay him a bribe by resuming sale of liquor. The ASI Mahendrasinh Baria had approached the complainant who had stopped bootlegging ahead of Diwali. Baria asked the complainant to start bootlegging again and ensure that he was paid on Diwali. The ASI had sought Rs one lakh from the complainant, but eventually agreed to take Rs 60,000. The complainant paid him Rs 30,000 and promised to pay the remaining amount later. The accused used to seek the amount repeatedly and hence the complainant approached the anti-corruption bureau (ACB). ACB sleuths laid a trap for Baria at his residence where he was to receive the remaining amount. Baria was held red-handed while accepting the bribe amount near his residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/policeman-caught-taking-rs-30000-bribe/articleshow/79571226.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 3Ws drive launched to push Covid-appropriate behaviour||BENGALURU: The BBMP has identified over 120 locations in Bengaluru where sanitisers will be placed as part of the civic agency’s 3Ws campaign to contain Covid-19. Launched on Friday, the 3Ws — which stand for wear a mask, wash hands & watch your distance — campaign seeks to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour. The campaign will also include a series of outreach activities like new hand sanitisation kiosks, audiovisual and outdoor campaigns, messaging on city buses and on BBMP solid waste management vehicles. Five major kiosks in crowded areas like Kempegowda Bus Stand, Shivajinagar and the KR Market and 120 small stations with pedal sanitisers will be set up across the city. The initiative is part of the Partnership for Healthy Cities project, a global network of cities supported by Bloomberg Philanthropies, World Health Organisation and Vital Strategies, a global health organisation. Besides Bengaluru, 69 other cities across the globe were selected for the project. Gaurav Gupta, administrator, BBMP, who launched the campaign, said, “It is very fortunate that the country and the state have managed the pandemic well and the number of cases is falling. But we cannot let our guard down. The moment citizens indulge in festivities and let their guard down, there tends to be a spike in cases. The 3Ws campaign is in the best interest of citizens.” Dr Thirveni BS, public health expert and director, Partnership for Healthy Cities, said, “It is the responsibility of every citizen to follow the 3Ws in order to protect themselves and ensure the safety of their family and other citizens when in public.” Manjunatha Prasad, commissioner, BBMP, said, “This pandemic has touched virtually everyone in the world. If a second wave of Covid-19 infections hits the city then it will be devastating to both health and the economy. So, everyone should ensure that they follow prescribed safety recommendations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-3ws-drive-launched-to-push-covid-appropriate-behaviour/articleshow/79575212.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir: Third phase sees 50% voter turnout||JAMMU: The nine districts that went to polls in the third phase on Friday reported an overall voter turnout of 50.5%. Jammu division saw 68.8% voting, more than double that of Kashmir division’s 31.6%, J&K election commissioner K K Sharma said. Among the terrorism -hit districts, Kulgam reported the highest voting percentage of 64.4%, followed by Bandipora (56.7%), Budgam (50.1%) and Kupwara (46.2%). The cumulative turnout of the Kashmir belt was dragged down by Baramulla (30.9%), Ganderbal (24.6%), Pulwama (10.8%), Shopian (22.6%) and Anantnag (21.6%). Reasi in Jammu division topped the charts with 75.2% voter turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jammu-and-kashmir-third-phase-sees-50-voter-turnout/articleshow/79575276.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Business||Suman consultant for inward investment stretegy in New Town||Kolkata: Following the chief minister’s announcement last Tuesday that Infosys will start work for its maiden project in the state at New Town from July next year, the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has floated an expression of interest to engage a consultant to develop a strategy for investment in the Silicon Valley, Fintech Hub and in the central business district area of New Town. Officials said that the objective behind the plan to engage a consultant to come up with a strategy is to enhance diverse economic activities in the township. Officials said that the selected consultant will provide a team of national and international experts and will conduct survey of all stakeholders including residents and existing investors in New Town and will make a perception image analysis and benchmark of the township comparing with similar cities at a national and international level to chalk up ways to attract investments. It was on August, 2018 that the chief minister had laid the foundation stone of Bengal Silicon Valley. Out of the total 200 acre of land, there are about 169 acres of allotable land excluding the roads and commercial space inside the valley. Some companies who have already applied for plots in the previous phases are Reliance Jio (40 acres), CTS (25 acres), TCS (20 acres), Capgemini (7 acres), Indian Statistical Institute and others. Official said that 20 more applications for land in the hub have been received. The Fintech hub project in New Town was launched by Hidco in 2017 to develop the financial technology industry by giving space to IT enabled financial technical services firms involved with automatic digital banking and payments, share market analytics and asset management. Till now, 23 financial and banking institutes have already been allocated space in the hub. What - Hidco to engage consultant to develop a strategy for inward investment in the Silicon Valley, Fintech Hub and in the central business district area of New Town What the consultant will do - * Will conduct survey of all stakeholders including residents and existing investors in New Town * Will make a perception image analysis and benchmark of the township comparing with similar cities at a national and international level Bengal Silicon Valley - Foundation stone laid in - August, 2018 Total land - 200 acre * There are about 169 acres of allotable land excluding the roads and commercial space inside the valley. Some companies who have already applied for plots in the previous phases - Reliance Jio (40 acres), CTS (25 acres), TCS (20 acres), Capgemini (7 acres), Indian Statistical Institute and others. * Applications have come from 20 more companies Fintech Hub - Launched in - 2017 Purpose - To develop the financial technology industry by giving space to IT enabled financial technical services firms involved with automatic digital banking and payments, share market analytics and asset management. * Till now, 23 financial and banking institutes have already been allocated space in the hub.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/suman-consultant-for-inward-investment-stretegy-in-new-town/articleshow/79572784.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Chargesheet of 1,914 pages filed against Arnab Goswami||MUMBAI: Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and two other businessmen delayed payment to or failed to pay interior designer Anway Naik’s firm, thus crumbling his financial position which led him to commit suicide, Alibaug police said in their chargesheet filed on Friday in the abetment to suicide case registered against Goswami and two others. The chargesheet was filed a day after Goswami moved the Bombay high court seeking a stay on the probe and filing of the chargesheet. The police case was based on a suicide note which stated that Naik, a 53-year-old interior designer, and his mother had decided to end their lives as payments totalling Rs 5.4 crore due to them were not being cleared by owners of three companies — ARG Outlier (that operates Republic TV), Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia and Neetish Sarda of Smartworks. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeNaik and his mother were found dead at their Alibaug farmhouse on May 5, 2018. A suicide note written in English by Naik had blamed the trio for failing to pay him his dues. Naik was the MD of Concord Design Private Ltd, a Mumbai-based architectural and interior designing firm, and his mother was on the firm’s board of directors. The chargesheet stated that the three accused had given contract work of interior designing, civil and electrical work, plumbing and engineering consultancy for their respective offices as per the work order. “The deceased had done all the work as per the work order. The accused gave additional work which the deceased completed. Seeing the extra work it was necessary to make changes in the bill of quantity but the trio made him work extra and paid him less,” the chargesheet said. They escalated the contract work of designing the interiors, civil and other work in their respective offices from Naik’s firm and delayed payments or failed to pay him on time, the chargesheet said. It further stated that the deceased had brought raw material to carry out the construction and interior work in their respective companies. The three accused, in a bid to not pay the deceased, issued debit notes and they did not take Naik’s signatures on any of these debit notes, the chargesheet said. “The accused did not pay money and kept delaying his payments. And due to all this, the clients from whom Naik had brought raw material started calling him for their money. In a bid to recover his dues, Naik kept on meeting with the three accused, mailing them, texting them and calling them requesting to pay his dues, but they delayed/failed to pay which led to mental harassment which led Naik to take (the) extreme step,” the chargesheet said. The Alibaug police on Friday submitted the 1,914-paged chargesheet before the Alibaug district magistrate’s court against Republic TV’s Goswami, Shaikh and Sarda. All three were arrested on November 4 and were subsequently released on bail based on a Supreme Court order. The police filed the chargesheet on the 30th day of the arrest under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code, which pertains to abetment to suicide. The section attracts a punishment of 10 years’ imprisonment and fine. In the chargesheet, police had also added IPC Section 109 that speaks about punishment for abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment. Police said there are around 65 witnesses, and a few of the key witnesses have even given statements under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code before a magistrate. These statements can be treated as evidence. Police have attached the copies of contract agreements between the deceased and the companies of the accused persons, the invoices of raw material, promissory notes, bank statements showing flow of financial transactions and exchange of emails, WhatsApp and other text messages regarding the work and payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chargesheet-of-1914-pages-filed-against-arnab-goswami/articleshow/79575289.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 5, 2020||India||3 girls washed away, 7 others killed as rain lashes TN||NEW DELHI: At least 10 people died in rain-related incidents, including three girls who were washed away by Palar river in Kancheepuram, on Friday as heavy rain continued to pound Tamil Nadu leading to inundation of crops and water-logging. Several towns reported heavy to extremely heavy rainfall including Kollidam in Nagapattinam district (36cm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-girls-washed-away-7-others-killed-as-rain-lashes-tn/articleshow/79575305.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Two more arrested, eight booked under UP’s new anti-conversion law||LUCKNOW: Police on Friday arrested two people and booked eight others in Uttar Pradesh’s Sitapur district for allegedly conspiring to get a 19-year-old Hindu girl married to a Muslim man in the fourth case registered under the state’s new anti-conversion law, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. Since the ordinance was promulgated on November 29, a total of 27 people have been booked and three arrested. The Sitapur case, initially involving an unidentified person, had been registered on November 26, three days before the law took effect. The basis of the case was a complaint lodged by the father of a girl, saying she had been kidnapped for forced marriage. On Friday, provisions of the anti-conversion law were added to the case after the alleged kidnapper was identified as a 22-year-old van driver, Zubrail. The couple has been reported missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-more-arrested-eight-booked-under-ups-new-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/79575322.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Mumbai||Supreme Court five-judge Constitution bench for Maratha quota case||MUMBAI: Three months after it put an interim stay on the Maratha quota, the Supreme Court is set to have a five-judge Constitution bench to hear the matter on December 9 at 2 pm. Maharashtra government has urged that the September 9 stay on the socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) reservation for Marathas, of 13% in education and 12% in government jobs, for 2020-21 be vacated in the "larger public interest." Ashok Chavan, PWD minister and chairman of the state cabinet sub-committee for Maratha quota, tweeted on Friday that the five-judge bench has been constituted on the state's request. The state had on September 20 filed an application in the SC seeking a larger bench to hear the interim order staying the Maratha quota. It also made several requests for a hearing for interim relief to be fixed before the larger bench. Vinod Patil, a convenor of Maratha Kranti Morcha, has also applied for the stay to be lifted. His plea through his lawyer Sandeep Deshmukh says the issue "involves constitutional validity'' of the Maharashtra Act for Maratha reservation. The SC stay had come while hearing appeals against a Bombay high court judgment last June that upheld the constitutional validity of the November 2018 SEBC Act by reducing 16% reservation to 13% and 12% in education and jobs respectively. The SC referred the matter to a larger bench for constitutional law interpretation of the 102nd Amendment Act which several petitioners said was not followed, rendering the law flawed. Once a matter is referred to a larger bench, no stay can be granted, argued the state. But the bench had on September 9 said there was "...no absolute rule to restrain interim orders being passed when an enactment is ex facie un-constitutional or contrary to the law laid down by this Court." The bench will comprise justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/supreme-court-five-judge-constitution-bench-for-maratha-quota-case/articleshow/79575336.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 5, 2020||India||Allahabad HC against multiplying case, junks PIL on Hathras rape||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Thursday refused to entertain a PIL seeking a judicial inquiry into the alleged gang rape of a 19-year-old Dalit woman in Hathras, saying it did not want to multiply the litigation as another one in this regard was pending before the its Lucknow bench. A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal, was hearing the PIL filed by one Babita Upadhyay. The petitioner had sought directions to the UP government and authorities not to restrain the media or the public to meet with family members of the victim. The court while declining to interfere in the present proceedings, said that a division bench at Lucknow had taken suo motu cognisance of the midnight cremation of the victim’s body. “We are not inclined to multiply the litigation in relation to the issue which is already under consideration,” it observed. The petitioner had also sought directions to the state gover nment to for mulate guidelines and provide adequate and uniform compensation to all victims of gang rape and murder without any discrimination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allahabad-hc-against-multiplying-case-junks-pil-on-hathras-rape/articleshow/79575338.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 5, 2020||Ahmedabad||No prescription needed in Gujarat for Covid test||AHMEDABAD: A notification dated December 3 by the state health department abolished the requirement of a medical prescription for a Covid-19 test. The notification by Dr Dinkar Raval, additional director (public health), stated that the decision follows testing guidelines by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “According to the guideline, those wishing to test for Covid-19 would not require recommendation or prescription by a doctor,” the notification said. The move has come almost five months after an earlier notification which allowed MBBS doctors/ family physicians to prescribe the test. The notification had come after repeated representations from the medical fraternity to improve testing in the state. Before the notification, only MD level doctors were allowed to prescribe the test. In the initial phase of the pandemic, only those allowed by the state health department were allowed to undergo testing if the person was not critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-prescription-needed-in-gujarat-for-covid-test/articleshow/79575331.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Low interest rates make it a good time to buy property in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Builders and bankers say that the low interest rate environment makes it an ideal time to buy residential property. “Canara Bank is offering interest rates as low as 6.9%. We have seen our third-quarter revenue from retail banking increase 51% to Rs 9,664 crore on good traction in our home loan, agriculture and SME portfolio,” said managing director LV Prabhakar. The bank says it has seen fairly good home loan sales in the city – on par with pre-Covid levels, on the back of low interest rates. Home loan interest rates are at an all-time low with most of the major banks offering between 6.7-7%. Kotak Mahindra is offering 6.7%, while the three biggest banks – SBI, HDFC and ICICI – are all offering 6.9%. Moreover, with RBI keeping the repo rate unchanged as part of its monetary policy on Friday, the rates will not harden anytime soon. “We’ve seen good growth in housing at 13%, with enquiries from Bengaluru, Chennai and Delhi. Our Retail Assets Hubs (RAHs), set up to focus on housing and educational loans, are doing well, and have pushed our home loan portfolio to Rs 60,000 crore,” Prabhakar added. Bengaluru remains one of the few bright spots for the real estate market that has been lacklustre across India, banks say. This is because the city has not seen an abundance of speculative investors over the years, something which crashed home sales in NCR. Shriram Properties managing director M Murali said the company has seen good sales in the last three months, with conversion rates (percentage of those who buy after making enquiries) of 24% compared to just 8% in the pre-Covid days. “Low interest rates have definitely helped, along with the PMAY (Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana), which has gone some way to boost affordable housing.” Ravindra Pai, managing director of Century Real Estate, said considering the low home loan rates and the fact that fixed deposit rates have also dropped, it makes sense to invest in a property. Anuj Puri, chairman of property consultancy Anarock, said a lower repo rate would have made things better. With real estate demand gradually returning, especially in the wake of developers’ discounts and freebies and reduced stamp duty charges, lower repo rates would have given an added boost to the ongoing festive season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/low-interest-rates-make-it-a-good-time-to-buy-property/articleshow/79571709.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||NDPS court permits sleuths to collect accused’s hair follicle samples again||BENGALURU: A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances court on Friday permitted Central Crime Branch sleuths to collect fresh hair follicle samples from actresses Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, and four others arrested in a drug-peddling case with alleged Sandalwood links. The samples will be taken for the second time. The y will be collected from the two actresses, businessmen Rahul Thonse and Prashant Ranka, Senegalese national Loom Pepper Samba and model Niyas Mohammed in a day or two, CCB police said. The team will visit Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara), where all the 13 arrested suspects in the case are lodged. In September, hair follicle samples of all 13 had been collected and sent to Forensic Science Laboratory in Hyderabad for a test. However, samples of some of the suspects were returned the next day as they had been wrapped in plastic sheets instead of foil paper. “Samples of seven suspects were properly wrapped in foil paper. The remaining six were placed in plastic cover since foil paper was not immediately available. When FSL returned the six samples, we approached the suspects, seeking hair follicle samples for the second time. They all declined and we approached the NDPS court for permission,” an investigating officer told TOI. According to officials, findings from the hair samples will establish consumption of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ndps-court-permits-sleuths-to-collect-accuseds-hair-follicle-samples-again/articleshow/79571694.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Four in Chanda, 3 in Bhandara succumb; Vid sees 1,000+ cases||NAGPUR: On Friday, 19 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in Vidarbha. Generally, Nagpur district accounts more than half of Vidarbha’s daily death toll, but on Friday, only 7 of the 19 deaths were reported from Nagpur. Other 12 came from Chandrapur (4), Bhandara (3), Yavatmal (2) and one each from Wardha, Gadchiroli, and Buldhana. Chandrapur, which has been reporting 100+ cases for most of the days in the last two weeks, reported 4 deaths in a day. However, as total death toll is reducing, the average case fatality rate of Vidarbha also came a decimal point down to 2.64%. This is still more than state’s average of 2.58% and national average of 1.45%. With 1,005 new cases and 867 recoveries in a day, total number of cases reached 231278 in the region. Of these, 2,12,901 patients have already recovered which means recovery rate is still 92%. However, state’s recovery rate reached near 93% on Friday and surpassed Vidarbha. National recovery rate reached 93.55%. The new cases of the a day came from Nagpur (422), Chandrapur (152), Bhandara (99), Gondia (83), Akola (65), Amravati (51), Wardha (38), Gadchiroli (32), Yavatmal (29), Buldhana (23), Washim (11) while 867 recoveries were reported from Nagpur (262), Chandrapur (147), Gondia (117), Buldhana (87), Wardha (61), Yavatmal (58), Gadchiroli (39), Amravati (34), Bhandara (32), Akola (17), and Washim (13) respectively. Bhandara: The district once again reported a surge in cases and three deaths. Total 99 new cases were reported which took the total number of cases in the district to 11,044. Only 32 patients recovered in a day taking the number of recovered patients to 9,868. Bhandara's recovery rate is 89.35%. Due to three deaths, the toll has reached 260. Case fatality rate is 2.35% here. Total 916 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district witnessed 83 new cases while 117 patients were discharged after recovery. No fatality was reported. RT-PCR reports of 147 samples are awaited. Of the 802 patients under treatment, 506 are in home isolation. The district now has 12,678 cases, with 11,714 recoveries and 162 deaths. Recovery rate is 91%. Gadchiroli: A 40-year-old man died during treatment on Friday taking the total death toll to 85. Total 32 new cases were detected while 40 recovered in a day. Now, the district has 8,140 cases, including 7,601 recoveries, and 454 patients under treatment. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 93.3%. Washim: The district reported 11 new cases which took the total to 6,231. On the other hand, 13 patients recovered taking their total to 5,842. No death was reported which maintained the death toll at 148 including a suicide. The district now has 241 patients under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported a death after almost two weeks. A 57-year-old woman from Shiv Shankar Nagar died during treatment. The death toll reached 137. On Friday, 309 reports were received of which 23 tested positive. Now, Buldhana has 11,456 total cases. On the other hand, 87 patients recovered in a day taking the total 10,947. At present, 372 patients are under treatment here. Akola: The district received reports of more than 550 tests of which 65 were found positive. With this, Akola has reported the highest one-day surge in cases in the last two weeks. The district now has 9,595 cases. Only 17 patients recovered on Friday, but no death was reported. Now, with 8,679 recoveries and 296 deaths, Akola has 620 patients under treatment. Amravati: A spike of 51 cases took the district’s caseload to 18,119 on Friday. No deaths were reported. The recoveries too were few — 34 — taking the total to 17,233. There are now 506 active cases, including 249 in home isolation. Chandrapur: The caseload climbed to 20,607 with the detection of 152 cases. Total 147 patients were discharged from hospitals. The total recoveries now stand at 18,382, whereas there are 1,911 active patients under treatment. The day also witnessed four deaths taking the death toll 314 in the district. Wardha: A 70-year-old man from the city died taking the death toll to 254. Total 38 patients tested positive while, 61 patients were discharged on Friday. The caseload of district has reached 8057 while recoveries are 7,339. Active positive patients undergoing treatment are 464. Total 678 test reports were received which included 38 positive cases. The cases were reported from Wardha (28), Hinganghat (8) and Selu (2). Yavatmal: The district recorded two deaths on Friday. On Friday, 507 test reports were received of which 29 came positive. Currently, 387 patients are undergoing treatment in Covid care centres. As many as 10,897 have recovered so far. On Friday, 58 patients recovered and discharged from hospitals in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-in-chanda-3-in-bhandara-succumb-vid-sees-1k-cases/articleshow/79571748.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 5, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ED says declare kin of Iqbal Memon fugitive economic offenders||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed an application before a special court requesting that drug smuggler Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi's wife, Hajra, and their two sons, Asif and Junaid, should be declared fugitive economic offenders. It also requested the court for confiscation of the Mirchi family's 15 properties, including two floors of Ceejay House in Worli. The collective worth of these properties is Rs 96 crore. The ED filed the application under Section 4 read with Section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act before the special court. In the application it requested the court to order for confiscation of the Mirchi family assets under the act along with their six bank accounts with Rs 1.9 crore balance. The ED had provisionally attached Mirchi family properties worth Rs 798 crore in the country and abroad under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. It had filed a chargesheet against the members of the family. The court had issued open-ended non-bailable warrants against Hajra, Asif and Junaid. Recently government authorities had confiscated three buildings - now demolished - that had been owned by Mirchi in Worli. The properties are in possession of a company controlled by DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj Wadhawan aka Baba Dewan. The ED, investigating a money laundering case against the Mirchi family and Wadhawans, requested the competent authorities for confiscation of the properties which Mirchi had managed to free from government attachment in 2005 fraudulently under SAFEMA and the NDPS Act. It is alleged that Michi had purchased properties in the country and abroad through his drug profits. He ran a nightclub in Worli from where he initially managed his drugs business. He fled the country to avoid arrest in the drugs cases and the government authorities started confiscating his properties. Mirchi's friends helped prevent the authorities from confisticating many of these. The three Worli buildings, Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge and Sea View are examples of these. Mirchi had bought these from the Mohammad Yusuf Trustin 1990. The trust representative claimed in court that these were trust properties to prevent their attachment by the government in 2005. In 2010, Mirchi sold these to Wadhawan-controlled Sunblink Realty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ed-says-declare-kin-of-iqbal-memon-fugitive-economic-offenders/articleshow/79575348.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Road works shifted to BJP stronghold from Cong’s area, alleges corporator||Nagpur: The budgetary allocation to corporation wards and assembly constituencies represented by Congress is not only being trimmed by the ruling BJP in Nagpur Municipal Corporation but funds allotted for development works are also being diverted to other areas. This came to fore in west Nagpur assembly constituency of Congress MLA Vikas Thakre and local corporator Darshani Dhawad. According to Dhawad, internal roads in Ganesh Nagar in her ward are in a bad shape. After persuing for years, NMC had sanctioned Rs 40 lakh in 2018-19 for converting the tar stretch to cement and the administration had issued a work order for the same. “But, before 2019 assembly elections, the BJP diverted the funds for constructing a road in adjoining Gurudatt Society without my knowledge,” said Dhawad. TOI on Tuesday visited the locality and found that the roads in Ganesh Nagar were in a bad shape. The entire patch connecting with Dabha ring road with Ganesh Nagar and road on either side of T-point was cratered. Dhawad said she had no grudge over the shifting of the road works as the new area also was in her constituency. “The only difference is that they are voters of the saffron party,” she said. TOI visited the locality and found that the Ganesh Nagar road which is the only major thoroughfare for the residents Sukhsagar Society, Shiv Nagar, Kalpana Society, Bhongade Layout and other areas are having a tough times on the road full of potholes. “We have to be careful not only on the main road but also in the inner lanes,” said Ramesh Thombre, a resident. TOI also spotted a two-wheeler rider pushing his vehicle with tyre punctured due to bad road. Mechanics in the locality said their business had increased owing to vehicles getting damaged on bad roads. In the past too, Dhawad had exposed BJP’s politics over development work. Dhawad and Congress corporator Harish Gwalbanshi had claimed that since 2014, BJP leaders including the ex-MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh had thrice performed bhoomipujan of a 1400-metre stretch connecting Dabha with Khadgaon. This work was sanctioned in 2010 at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore but was constructed only last year, she said. Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/road-works-shifted-to-bjp-stronghold-from-congs-area-alleges-corporator/articleshow/79571833.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||Cyber crimes rose by 30% this year, reveals RTI||NAGPUR: There has been a steep rise in cyber crime cases. The number of cases in the first nine months this year are 30% more than those registered in 2019. Compared to 126 in 2019, 166 cases have been registered till September 2020, reveals a RTI reply to activist Abhay Kolarkar. Nagpur crime branch said that most complaints were related to online banking, credit card, debit card fraud and cheating through mobile phone and other means under the information technology (IT) Act. As per the RTI reply, from January-September 2020, the cyber cell registered 13 cases pertaining to online cheating, 3 cases of debit and credit card fraud, 12 cases of online banking fraud, six cases of cheating through OTP and 49 cases of other online frauds. In 2019, the police had registered 11 cases of online cheating, 14 cases of frauds pertaining to credit and debit card fraud, 4 cases of cheating through online banking, 6 OTP-related fraud cases and 47 other cyber crime cases. The cyber cell also registered cases related to spreading rumours through social media. As per the RTI reply, from March 25 to September 30 (during Covid-induced lockdown period), the cell registered five cases related to spreading rumours through Facebook, TikTok, Twitter and other social media. One case of objectionable WhatsApp message and three rumours pertaining to coronavirus scare were registered during the lockdown period, the RTI reply revealed. Cases hurting religious sentiments, too, have increased this year. Compared to the three FIRs in 2019, this year the city police registered seven cases in the first nine months of the calendar year. Liquor prohibition cases too witnessed a sharp rise. Against 10,913 cases last year, city police have registered 10,195 cases in just nine months of 2020. However, serious offences like murder, attempt to murder, rape etc under IPC sections have witnessed a sharp decline in first nine months this year as compared to last year. City police had registered 7,735 cases in 2019, while from January 1, 2020 to September 30, 2020, 4,720 were recorded. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-crimes-rose-by-30-this-year-reveals-rti/articleshow/79571866.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Amul will empower milk producers in Andhra Pradesh: Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday asserted that the government’s initiative to rope in cooperative milk producer Amul will empower milk producers in the state, particularly women, and help them become small-time entrepreneurs. Speaking in the assembly on the last day of the winter session, the chief minister said the brand is one of the most successful cooperative ventures and helped usher in ‘white revolution’ in the country. Unlike other private companies, Amul pays better rates to milk farmers despite its wide presence across the nation and in other countries. “Milk collection centres and cooling plants would be set up across the state which would be attached to the rythu bharosa kendras in villages,” Jagan said, adding that these centres would pay better price to milk producers and collect the milk. The chief minister alleged that milk cooperative units in the state were exploited by the previous regime. “Many of these cooperative units were converted into MACS (mutually aided cooperative societies), thereby reducing the intervention of the state government, during the TDP regime. This government will create women milk producers’ societies in the villages. The milk production and collection through Amul would generate income for the state besides giving profits to farmers,” he said. Earlier, there was pandemonium in the House as TDP members protested seeking payment of bills for MNREGS works executed during the last five years. TDP legislators, led by party chief and opposition leader N Chandrababu Naidu, demanded a debate in the House on pending MNREGS bills which was rejected by the speaker and the treasury benches. The speaker asked the members to come in a right form to hold discussions in the House, while the ruling party questioned TDP for not raising the issue at the business advisory committee meeting held on the first day of the assembly session. The ruling party further said that the issue was being investigated as irregularities had been reported and asked the TDP members to wait for the investigation to be completed. As TDP members continued to protest, speaker Thammineni Sitaram announced their suspension from the House. Naidu too staged a walkout from the House in protest against the refusal to hold discussion and suspension of TDP members. Speaking to reporters outside the assembly, Naidu ridiculed the ruling party’s claims that irregularities were reported in MNREGS works and dared the government to take action against the officers who monitored the works. He said his government utilised the MNREGS to the maximum extent to create basic infrastructure in villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amul-will-empower-milk-producers-in-state-jagan/articleshow/79571876.cms||Gopi Dara
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||HC asks Gantawar couple to pay Rs 25,000 to Police Welfare Fund||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court, headed by Justice Rohit Deo, on Thursday ordered NMC’s assistant chief health officer Dr Praveen Gantawar and his wife Dr Sheelu to pay a cost of Rs25,000 towards District Police Welfare Fund for the treatment of Covid-affected personnel. The cost was levied on the couple, applicant of an anticipatory bail plea on being accused in a disproportionate assets case, after their counsel sought adjournment. Dr Gantawar and his wife were made accused by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in a case of disproportionate of assets in April this year after their properties were found to be Rs2.25 crore in excess of their lawful income as government servants. Sessions court had rejected the couple’s anticipatory bail plea, following which both had approached the high court. Terming the couple’s request as ‘most unreasonable’, the court asked the applicants to deposit the amount before the plea for adjournment can be allowed. The court has now scheduled the next hearing for December 10. In it’s order, the court stated that defence counsel Prasad Abhyankar had argued the matter at length during the last hearing, which was conducted through videoconferencing. The matter was adjourned as the court felt a physical hearing in the matter could be appropriate. It was during the physical hearing that Gantawars’ counsel Abhyankar initially pleaded for an adjournment saying a senior counsel has been engaged, who would like to argue the matter further. The court, in reply to Abhyankar’s reasoning, stated that the ground for seeking adjournment was ‘unsatisfactory’ as the matter has already been heard substantially. Putting his subsequent argument forward, the defence counsel stated that the adjournment would be required to ensure some documents can be put on record, but the application is yet to be affirmed. The court then stated that the documents would be considered if they are placed on record. Government lawyer Nitin Rode, who represented the ACB, said the court was unhappy over the defendants seeking the adjournment even when the matter was heard elaborately. “The court wanted the police department gets the amount for treating their Covid warriors, who are facing the brunt of the pandemic,’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-asks-gantawar-couple-to-pay-rs-25k-to-police-welfare-fund/articleshow/79571873.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 5, 2020||Nagpur||NGO meets rly officials against baggage contract||Nagpur: Even as the Nagpur railway station coolies are not ready to accept entry of a private company into baggage lifting business, the Central Railway Nagpur has shown readiness to amend the work order after intervention by NGO ‘Together We Can’ that has taken up cudgels for the 147-odd porters. The team of NGO consisting of Anasuya Kale Chhabrani, Joseph George, and Ashish Nagpure met the senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Krishnath Patil on Wednesday and picked up holes in the work order released to appoint Bookbaggage.com India Pvt Ltd, Gurugram. The Together We Can leader George said, “We told the railway officials coolies will not accept any payment from the private firm. It will simply rob them of their status as quasi railway employees. Coolies should get paid for their work by the passengers directly.” The work order also doesn’t mention anything about the safety of luggage as to who would be responsible in case of theft and mismanagement. “The railway officials were ready to amend the work order indicating the agreement with the private company was done in a haste. The Central Railway should have invited bids from local parties too before taking a decision,” said George. He added as per the Railway Board guidelines on ‘Innovative Ideas Scheme’, firstly such projects should be implemented with its own manpower or through railway public sector or outside agency like NGOs, self-help groups (SHGs) and cooperative societies. “The railway decision will be challenged soon,” said George.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngo-meets-rly-officials-against-baggage-contract/articleshow/79571898.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Congress, Sena demand free vaccine for majority||NEW DELHI: While Congress and Shiv Sena demanded that the vaccine against Covid-19 be provided free to large sections of people, the point of view on behalf of Congress was articulated outside the allparty meeting as leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad steered clear of it during the deliberations. In what marked a glaring contrast, Congress’s criticism was led by Lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury who did not get the chance to speak at the meeting. Azad, who spoke for Congress, skipped the mention and expressed hope that the vaccine would be introduced shortly. He said Covid-19 represented a threat to internal security and should be treated as such by policy makers. Jairam Ramesh reminded in a tweet that BJP had promised free vaccine in Bihar. Azad is a leading member of the G-23 group of senior leaders who have protested against “drift” in party affairs. The play of events was interesting as ahead of the meeting, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “In today’s all-party meeting, we hope the PM clarifies by when will every Indian get free Covid vaccine.” Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut demanded that the government provide the vaccine free of cost to health workers, police, senior citizens and frontline workers among others. Raut, as also SP leader Ramgopal Yadav, cautioned about “black marketeering” of the vaccine, citing the example of Remdesivir. Yadav said the threat of fake vaccines had been flagged by Interpol. The SP veteran also demanded the government raise the budgetary allocation of health to 2.5% of GDP by 2022. CPM parliamentary party leader Elamaram Kareem said the government did not offer any clarity on distribution and storage of the Covid-19 vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-sena-demand-free-vaccine-for-majority/articleshow/79575350.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Vijayawada||House says no to local body polls in Feb||Vijayawada: Even as a case is being heard in the AP high court on the state election commission’s decision to hold local body elections in February, the assembly on Friday unanimously resolved that the situation in the state was not conducive to hold polls due to Covid-19. Deputy chief minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas, who holds the health portfolio, moved a resolution in the House stating that Covid-19 cases were still active and the pandemic situation, though under control, was still not over yet. Regretting that the SEC was preparing to hold the elections without consulting the government and assessing the ground realities, he said people are not ready to join the election process due to fear of infections. He also raised alarm over the threat of a second wave of Covid-19. Finance and legislative affairs minister Buggana Rajendranath said that he also felt the need to amend the AP Panchayat Raj Act to make it compulsory for the SEC to take the views of the government into consideration before deciding on holding the elections. The House passed the resolution by voice vote, before speaker Tammineni Sitaram adjourned the House sine die. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/house-says-no-to-local-body-polls-in-feb/articleshow/79571907.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Amaravati||‘Govt committed to equitable & overall development of state’||Amaravati: Irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav has lashed out at TDP members in the legislative council for demanding a discussion on Amaravati by stalling debate on Polavaram project. He told TDP members to explain if they wanted a debate only on Amaravati belongs to a few thousand people or Polavaram project belongs to the entire state. Taking strong objection to opposition members’ slogan shouting to stall the proceedings of the council on Friday, Anil Kumar said that TDP was keen on protecting the interests of a few thousands of the people while ignoring the Polavaram project. He said the debate on Polavaram was listed in the business on Thursday but TDP stalled the house only to avoid getting exposed. He said that TDP is repeating the same drama on Friday when the government wanted to give details of the Polavaram project’s progress. Intervening in the debate, municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana fumed at TDP members for not raising the issue of Amaravati at Business Advisory Council (BAC) meeting to list the subject in the proceedings. “We have expressed our willingness to debate any issue. TDP had not sought any discussion on Amaravati at BAC and raking up the subject in the council only to create nuisance because they were never interested in a debate,” Botcha said. Later, Anil Kumar clarified that the government had not dumped Amaravati as they have decided to continue it as the legislative capital city. He said that they would develop Amaravati along with other two capital cities. “The CM is keen on equitable and overall development of the state instead of pouring in thousands of crores in one area,” said Anil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-committed-to-equitable-overall-development-of-state/articleshow/79571913.cms||Samdani MN
December 5, 2020||Goa||Pernem’s water woes worsen after plant shuts for repairs||Pernem: Over the last four years, resident of Paliem, Pernem, Sangeeta Sawant and her family, have been receiving tapped water supply once in three to four days, only for an hour. The shutdown of the Chandel water treatment plant (WTP) for five days for repair works — announced earlier this week — has only turned a bad situation worse for the Sawant household. Across Pernem there are thousands of families similarly struggling for their daily water requirements. The 15MLD Chandel WTP is the only one supplying water to the entire taluka. This means that tail-ends of the supply chain, like Paliem, have to suffer shortages all year round. The five days of shutdown of the Chandel plant for repairs have only turned this shortage more acute. A growing tourism industry along Pernem’s coast has been increasing pressure on this already scarce resource here. Locals said that the frequency of Pernem residents digging borewells to meet the water supply requirement, especially for commercial use, has increased over the last three years or so, worsening the problem. It is leading to the natural water streams and wells drying up earlier, leaving those dependent on these sources of water in the lurch. “We receive one hour of water supply once in two days or once in four days. There are no guarantees. Five of the families in the neighbourhood draw water from one family’s well to meet our requirement. But with borewells being dug, the well water starts reducing in December itself. Earlier, this used to happen later, in February,” Sawant said. The situation is worse in the coastal areas, where wells cannot be relied upon because the water is saline here. Pernem taluka, which comprises one municipality and 20 village panchayats, has nearly 2,000 water tap connections, but only one WTP which releases 10 lakh litres per day. “Water supply is erratic in Pernem. The authorities when questioned assure to address the issue, but water supply has never regularised in Pernem,” said senior citizen from Pernem Daji Kamat. The Surbanwada area of the municipality is also facing acute water shortage. Deputy chief minister Manohar Azgaonkar had to hold a meeting with PWD officials to ensure that the issue is addressed. Locals said the increasing tourist interest in Pernem’s beaches has led to more borewells being dug for commercial use, worsening the problem The work of doubling the capacity of the WTP at Chandel from the current 15MLD to 30MLD has begun in October 2019 and is yet to be completed. The worse affected are the tail-end areas of Morjim Mandrem Arambol and Paliem and Keri. “Hoteliers and construction companies can afford to purchase water from tankers, we cannot,” said a local living in Arambol, where residents cannot use well water as it is saline. “People have dug borewells and supply water through tankers for commercial purposes which has lowered the groundwater table. As a result, wells in the vicinity of borewells dry up faster creating problems for locals,” said Bhanumati Parab from Paliem. The government’s plans to construct a new 20MLD water treatment plant in Tuem to meet additional needs of Pernem taluka, at the cost of Rs 30 crore, are yet to take shape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernems-water-woes-worsen-after-plant-shuts-for-repairs/articleshow/79573265.cms||Keshav Naik
December 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC reserves order on plea to stay local polls||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Friday reserved judgement on the state government’s petition, seeking stay on the proceedings issued by the state election commission to conduct local body elections in February 2021. While the government argued that the decision to hold elections in February next year without considering the concerns of the state government is irrational and also in violation of Supreme Court judgements, the SEC contended that the government does not have any role in holding elections and the decision was taken after Unlock 5 guidelines were issued. Advocate general S Sriram said the Covid-19 situation remains the same from the day the election process was postponed by the SEC in March. Concerns expressed by the SEC about possible spread of virus due to large-scale movement of people from other states and congregations during campaign while postponing the elections also remain the same now, he said. The state machinery too has expressed the same concerns in a written communication to the SEC. In view of this, the objectivity and rationality in the SEC’s decision to go ahead with the election process needs to be examined, the advocate general stated. N Ashwani Kumar, the standing counsel of SEC, argued that the decision to restart the election process was taken only after the state government issued Unlock 5 guidelines by allowing commercial establishments, movie theatres and schools to reopen. Conducting elections is a constitutional obligation vested upon the SEC, he said, adding that the Constitution provided complete independence to the SEC in the conduct of elections. The state government does not have any role in the process as per the Constitution and recent judgements of the Karnataka high court and the Supreme Court also reiterate the same, he argued. The state government can at best give feedback to the SEC’s queries but cannot give instructions or directions to the SEC, he added. He further stated that even the courts cannot interfere in the election process once the notification is issued. Intervening at this point, Justice D V S S Somayajulu asked whether the process can be considered as initiated without issuing notification. The SEC’s counsel said notification for MPTC and ZPTC has already been issued but the process was halted midway. The SEC is now resuming the election process as part of fulfilling its constitutional obligation and the state government should trust the SEC, as the Karnataka high court said in a recent judgement, he said. The advocate general cited the Supreme Court judgement in which it said there shall be a post decisional consultation with the state government before notifying the dates for polling. He said when elections are held during normal course of time, consultation with the government may not be necessary. However, when the elections were postponed under exceptional circumstances, the SEC should consult the state government before resuming the process, and this also confirms with the Supreme Court judgement, he said. Taking arguments of both sides into consideration, Justice Somayajulu reserved the judgement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-reserves-order-on-plea-to-stay-local-polls/articleshow/79571926.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 5, 2020||Goa||Vijai: Situation at Sonsoddo worst seen in 10 years||Panaji: Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai on Friday said that the the bio-remediation of the legacy dump at Sonsodo, and treatment of wet waste would restart on December 19. “The bio-remediation of the legacy dump, which was being done by Hindustan Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd (HWTPL) till the last monsoon, has not yet commenced. To add to this, the 35 tonne of wet waste generated daily is not even being touched, let alone treated. Baling of dry waste has also come to a full stop. The situation is the worst that I have seen over the last 10 years. The size of the dump is the largest I have seen,” he said after paying a surprise visit to Sonsodo along with chief officer of Margao municipal council Agnelo Fernandes. Sardesai also spoke to waste management minister Michael Lobo and extracted a commitment from him to start the bio-remediation work and treatment of the daily wet waste by December 19. Lobo assured Sardesai that on December 19 both operations would start. Sardesai said that HWTPL would start the bio-remediation process for the old dump as before and, in addition, would shift one wet waste treatment plant to Sonsoddo from Saligao before December 19 to treat the daily intake of 35 tonne of wet waste. The former deputy chief minister asked the Margao chief officer to take immediate action regarding the baling operations. “As the tendering process would take some time, this will be a temporary arrangement till the new bio-methanation plants are set up,” he said adding that “we cannot wait till then”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vijai-situation-at-sonsoddo-worst-seen-in-10-years/articleshow/79573315.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||Army chief to visit UAE, Saudi next week to boost defence ties||NEW DELHI: Army chief General M M Naravane will visit Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates next week to bolster defence and security cooperation with the two crucial countries in the Gulf whose ties with Pakistan have deteriorated in recent months. Gen Naravane, who leaves for the region on Sunday, will visit Saudi Arabia for two days and then head for the UAE for another two days. He will hold talks with senior military and civilian leaders in the two countries as well as visit defence establishments and academies, officials said. Over the years, India has steadily built stronger defence ties with the Gulf nations through joint exercises, military training and intelligence-sharing, even as discussions have been underway to export the BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles to countries like the UAE. UAE firm Caracal is also among the four-five foreign contenders in the fray for the proposed ‘Make in India’ project to manufacture 4.6 lakh close-quarter battle carbines for the Indian armed forces. This is Gen Naravane’s third foreign trip with clear diplomatic overtones in recent months after his visits to Myanmar in October and Nepal in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-chief-to-visit-uae-saudi-next-week-to-boost-def-ties/articleshow/79575375.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Amaravati||Agriculture research station may be relocated to AP's Tangedancha||AMARAVATI: The allocation of about 50 acres of land from the regional agriculture research station (RARS) at Nandyal town in Kurnool district for the proposed government medical college is being opposed by some local groups. The cabinet recently cleared a proposal to spare the 50 acres from the research station for the medical college. Agriculture scientists and farmers are worried that taking away land from RARS will weaken research activities for the local farming community. The Nandyal facility is one of the oldest agriculture research centres in the country. A PIL has been filed by Bojja Dasaratharami Reddy, president of Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi, in the AP high court against the allocation of land to the medical college. “The government should have granted more research projects and invested more funds for research activities to bail out farmers in the region. Instead, it is taking away land from the agriculture research station,” alleged Reddy. Local legislator Silpa Ravichandra Reddy countered the allegations. “The medical college is an important project for the area. Local people are forced to rush to Kurnool for all emergencies, which is nearly 80 kilometres away. The Nandyal facility is situated in about 60-70 acres, which is not sufficient for agriculture research activities,” he said. He said the government is planning a big research station in 800 acres at Tangedancha in Kurnool district. “Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to spare about 400 acres at the existing agriculture station in Tangedancha village. The Nandyal RARS may be relocated there if required. A government medical college in the middle of the town will help lakhs of poor from the region,” added Ravi Reddy. Nandyal MP, Dr Pocha Bramhananda Reddy, said more land would be allocated to the existing RARS facility to strengthen it. “I worked as a scientist at RARS before joining politics and will not allow its closure at any cost. We are planning to take land from RARS for setting up the government medical college as no government land is available in the town. Our plans have no hidden agenda,” he said. He said the chief minister is very particular about bringing the best healthcare facilities closer to the poor in all districts. “The government is equally serious about encouraging agriculture research activity. The land available at the existing RARS is not sufficient to go for advanced research activities. We will protect the RARS and its research activities. Relocation to some other area does not mean it is being weakened. In fact, allocation of more land will help the farmers benefit from the research activity,” Bramhananda added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/agriculture-research-stn-may-be-relocated-to-tangedancha/articleshow/79571941.cms||Samdani MN
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||With no big releases, theatres on closing spree in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: More than 45 days on since they were permitted to reopen, theatres have continued to get a lukewarm reception from audiences and many have decided to close until an adequate number of new movies are released. A senior executive of a popular multiplex chain in India said only 15-25 tickets per show are being sold on average in Bengaluru, while several singlescreen theatre owners said footfall has been 20%-25% of the total seats allowed to be sold by the state government. Producers and theatre owners are unanimous in the belief that only films featuring ‘big stars’ can bring audiences back. ‘Act 1978’ was the first Kannada film released in theatres after the outbreak of the pandemic, but owners say footfall has remained low and many in the industry admit that releasing films in the current scenario may not be economically viable. Only 10% of theatres have reopened since restrictions were lifted after a gap of seven of months on October 15, and owners say the lack of new content is the major reason. So far, only around 50 of the 650 theatres across the state have opened, also partly due to a poor response from people. Some theatres which opened, closed again as they were finding it difficult to pay staff their salaries and for maintenance. While theatre owners want films of big stars like Darshan and Puneeth Rajkumar to be released — they think these will draw crowds back — producers are not prepared as they believe movie buffs will not turn out to watch as the fear of contracting the infection is still high. “It’s a strange situation,” admitted KV Chandrashekhar, president, Karnataka Theatre Owners Association. “Unless films of stars are released, it is difficult to attract people to theatres. But producers of these movies, who have invested huge sums, are not ready to take risk. I think it will take a few more weeks for the situation to improve.” Around a dozen Kannada movies have been released since October 15, but barring ‘Act 1978’, directed by Masore, no other film has managed to get an audience. “New films of big stars will solve this problem, but we can’t force them to release movies as their concerns are also genuine,” said M Narasimhulu, secretary, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce. He said all multiplexes in cities have opened, but they too are reporting low footfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-no-big-releases-theatres-on-closing-spree-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79575368.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Vijayawada||Newly-wed woman hangs self in bathroom at AP's Krishna district||VJAYAWADA: A newly-wed woman killed herself by hanging to death at her residence at Mallavalli village of Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district on Thursday. The deceased was identified as Rajeswari, a second-year intermediate student from Ganapavaram village in Krishna district. According to Hanuman Junction police, the incident was reported Thursday evening after the girl’s parents found her hanging in the bathroom. She was rushed to the hospital where she was declared dead. Police said that Rajeswari got married around 12 days ago. The intermediate student discontinued her education during the lockdown and her parents started looking for suitable alliances. Cops said that they are looking at all possible reasons behind the deceased taking the extreme step including whether the marriage was performed against her wishes. The young woman’s body has been sent to a local government hospital for post mortem. A case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC at Hanuman Junction police station. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/newly-wed-woman-hangs-self-in-bathroom/articleshow/79571982.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Surat||Two constables booked for bribery||Surat: Two years after a failed trap, the Surat division of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Friday booked two city police constables in a bribe case dated back to 2018. According to sources, constables Mahavirsinh Jadeja and Prakash Desai posted at Puna Police station in Surat city then have been booked under various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act and launched further probe. “Both constables had demanded Rs 15000 bribe from each of the four salons located at Parvat Patiya area in the city during Diwali and threatened them to implicate them in false cases if they failed to meet their demands. Both constables demanded a total Rs 60000 from the traders. After negotiations, they settled for Rs 25000. As part of the pact, the complainant paid Rs 10,000 to the cops in the first instalment and the accused put pressure for the remaining Rs 15000. “Salon owner did not want to pay any further and approached the ACB. After receiving the complaint, ACB officials laid a trap on November 5, 2018. However, the accused did not accept the amount then and the trap failed. After this, ACB’s Surat division launched a probe in the case and found evidence against the two personnel and booked them,”ACB official said. “Accused constables had demanded bribe on mobile phones and the audio of the conversation was available which was sent to forensic test in Gandhinagar. Voice spectrography was also done to verify it,” police said. At present, Prakash Desai is posted at Surat city’s traffic department and Mahavirsinh Jadeja is posted at Puna police station in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-constables-booked-for-bribery/articleshow/79570744.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Tea, coffee sectors upset over FSSAI’s ‘chaach & soup’ tweet||Kolkata: One of the ‘post-festival health tips’ series of advertisements tweeted by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has created a furore among tea and coffee lovers. Released under hashtags like #Healthtips and #EatRightIndia, the FSSAI had on November 17 had tweeted: “Swap your beverage from tea/coffee to other freshly made alternatives like lemon water, chaach or soup.” Both the tea and coffee sectors vehemently objected to such a sudden and negative campaign and demanded scientific proof behind the “healthier option” claim. A few hours after TOI sent a questionnaire via email to FSSAI chairperson Rita Teaotia on Friday afternoon, the ‘Eat Right India’ tweet was removed from its official Twitter handle. The food safety authority has decided to “put up a clarification soon”. As a part of its series of media (offline and online) campaigns on post-festival health and wellness tips since November, the said FSSAI advertisement wrote in its tagline: “Switch from tea/coffee to fresh lemon water, coconut water, clear soup, kanji and chaach.” All the tweets were tagged with @PIB_Indian, @MIB_India, @mygovIndia and @MoHFW_India. On Thursday, the Tea Board of India wrote a letter to its parent body, the Union commerce ministry, and urged the latter to seek an explanation from the health ministry under which FSSAI functions. P K Sahu, deputy chairman of Tea Board, said: “We have contested the negative tweet by FSSAI. In order to maintain a protocol, we have first sent a letter to the commerce ministry and informed it about this tweet, which has undermined both tea and coffee. A government authority cannot propagate promotional campaign/tweets that can go against the interest of an ailing agricultural sector.” An FSSAI spokesperson told TOI: “Consumption of any food is a personal choice. However, FSSAI encourages safe and healthy eating practices. The general public is urged to make informed choices ...” Speaking to TOI, M S Boje Gowda, the chairman of Bengaluru-based Coffee Board, said coffee had immense health benefits and the FSSAI campaign and tweets would be reviewed at the next board meeting. Sujit Patra, the secretary of Indian Tea Association (ITA), too tweeted against the campaign.“Drastically wrong proposition. It may spread the wrong impression about TEA. Already scientifically established, tea has many health benefits which no other beverage can offer!” he wrote. Bijoy Gopal Chakraborty, president of small tea growers’ body Cista, feels such a campaign could affect the livelihood of millions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tea-coffee-sectors-upset-over-fssais-chaach-soup-tweet/articleshow/79573572.cms||Sovon Manna
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||HC asks NIA to give Chhatradhar probe documents to advocate-general||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Friday directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to hand over probe documents against former PCPA leader Chhatradhar Mahato to the advocate-general of Bengal. The NIA has requested the HC to cancel bail granted to Mahato, who has now joined the Trinamool Congress, because he did not appear before a court designated to hear the alleged hijacking of Rajdhani Express and other matters in which he is an accused. On coming to know that the NIA has charged Mahato with sedition, the bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Aniruddha Roy directed it to hand over documents to the advocate-general who will submit the state’s stand on the matter within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-asks-nia-to-give-chhatradhar-probe-documents-to-advocate-general/articleshow/79573640.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||HC rejects review of CAG Amphan order||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Friday refused to review its earlier order directing the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) to probe allegations of irregularities in the distribution of relief after Cyclone Amphan ravaged Bengal. The division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee had directed CAG to intervene after going through a PIL in which it had been alleged that state agencies had distributed relief selectively. On Friday, advocate-general Kishore Dutta informed the court that the state wanted to make some submissions and prayed that the bench review its order for a CAG probe in the matter. The bench was not convinced and observed that it had passed the order after careful perusal. The state may move an appeal in a higher court, it observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-rejects-review-of-cag-amphan-order/articleshow/79573674.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Elephant electrocuted in Banerhat||Jalpaiguri: An adult female elephant was electrocuted at Haldibari tea estate in Jalpaiguri's Banerhat after coming in contact with a high tension electric line. The carcass was found on Friday morning. This incident was the ninth such in the past five months. “Although this seems an accident and unintentional, it is a fact that the animal died of electrocution after it came in contact with a wire that was supposed to be at a much higher elevation. It is very sad that even after meetings with WBSEDCL, nothing or very little is being done,” said a senior forester. In most cases, jumbos fell into the trap of electric wires laid on the field to stop them from raiding paddy fields. In Bengal, some 31 jumbos have died of electrocution in the Dooars and Terai regions over the past decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elephant-electrocuted-in-banerhat/articleshow/79573409.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal to buy excess kharif paddy at MSP to help farmers||KOLKATA: Around 12 lakh paddy farmers, of an estimated 72 lakh in Bengal, have opted for a government scheme to procure kharif paddy for the public distribution system. The government plans to enrol another 23 lakh farmers into the scheme. This would not only help meet its procurement target for supply of free rice to nearly 19 crore people till June 2021, but also pre-empt distress sale by farmers and stabilise the price of rice in the market. A bumper kharif harvest, coupled with low demand for Swarno Masuri, Lata, IR64, Niranjan and others — coarser varieties of the grain — have been threatening to pull down paddy prices below the government-announced minimum support price (MSP). The scare prompted the state government to widen the rice procurement base among farmers. Agriculturists believe this will also help farmers improve rabi farming, stabilising the price of finer varieties of rice sold in urban markets. The government plans to impose a ceiling on the amount of paddy procured from each farmer, so that more of them can be brought under the ambit of the project. The maximum procurement was 90 quintals at an MSP of Rs 1,868 per quintal last year; the maximum procurement at MSP this year will be 45 quintals. The fear of declining prices has gripped farmers across the country following the Centre’s new farm laws that are non-committal on MSP. Paddy prices in the market are way below the MSP, hovering around Rs 1,200-Rs 1,300 a quintal. The kharif paddy scenario is in sharp contrast with potato prices that continue to rise, defying the logic that producers get better prices after commodities are removed from the Essential Commodities Act. For Bengal, the problem is more acute than other states’, as it is the country’s rice bowl, with an estimated production of 25 crore quintals of paddy this year against last year’s 24.3 crore quintals. “This has necessitated us reaching out to a maximum number of farmers. In Bengal, 90% farmers are marginal ones,” said Bengal’s food and civil supplies minister, Jyotipriya Mallick. The minister pointed out that 800 to 900 farmers were enrolling with the procurement process daily. The paddy procurement will begin later this month. Altogether, 21 lakh farmers benefited during the last kharif season. “We hope to expand the procurement net and include 35 lakh farmers worst hit by the pandemic,” said Pradeep Mazumdar, agri-adviser to the Bengal government. Mazumdar complained that the Food Corporation of India procured only 7.1 lakh quintals against the 60-lakh quintal target for running the central scheme. With elections in 2021, the state government has set a target of procuring 520 lakh quintals of paddy. “We may revise the target if the enrolment is very high, ” the food minister said. The government is also setting up a special surveillance system to ensure that the enrolled farmer has actually sold his harvest to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-to-buy-excess-kharif-paddy-at-msp-to-help-farmers/articleshow/79574043.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 5, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka bandh unlikely to hit transport services today||BENGALURU: While some pro-Kannada groups have called for a statewide bandh on Saturday to oppose the Maratha Development Board, transport services are unlikely to be affected in the city. The bandh has been called between 6am and 6pm and will witness a rally from KSR Bengaluru City railway station to Freedom Park. KSRTC and BMTC operations may not be disrupted as All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has only extended moral support to the bandh. Namma Metro will operate as usual. Fuel outlets as well as restaurants will remain open. Some auto drivers, cabbies to participateHowever, a few autorickshaw and cab drivers have decided to join the bandh. Tanveer Pasha, a cab union leader, claimed most cabbies and auto drivers will participate in the strike. “But we are not forcing all drivers because of the Covid impact,” he said. Police have decided to intensify security across the state to prevent forcible closure of shops and commercial establishments and untoward incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bandh-unlikely-to-hit-transport-services-today/articleshow/79571688.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip hits out at Trinamool over spiralling prices of potato, onion||Champdani(Hooghly): Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh hit out at chief minister Mamata Banerjee, citing the spiralling prices of potato and onion back home when farmers had a raw deal. Ghosh claimed that the huge gap between field prices last year and the retail prices now had gone to TMC’s election fund. “Bengal farmers sold potatoes at Rs 5/kg last year. Now, they are buying the same tuber at Rs 45 a kilo. Trinamool-backed middlemen made the fast buck and built funds for the elections. Modi-ji made the farm laws to chuck middlemen out for the benefit of growers. Farmers here are happy and feel secured under the new law,” Ghosh said, while taking a jibe at the chief minister supporting the cause of farmers at the Delhi-Haryana border. He also named some opposition leaders who ran agro-cartels in Punjab and Maharashtra and were up in arms against the new farm laws. “Onion-growers in Bengal made a distress sale of their produce at Rs 2 a kilo. They are now buying onions at Rs 85 a kilo. This government won’t allow people to eat staples even. Potato has become costlier than posto, taking away the alu-posto from our meals,” the BJP leader said at Hooghly’s Champdani on Friday. Ghosh argued that TMC wouldn’t allow people to have rice and wheat consignments sent by the Centre. He complained how the Mamata government “threw a spanner” on the benefits the Modi government had dished out for farmers across the country, including Bengal. “As many as 14 crore farmers have got Rs 14,000 each under the Pradhan Mantri Kishan Samman Nidhi. There is no one from Bengal,” he added. The BJP leader, while addressing the jute mill workers from Champdani, asked if anyone from them had got benefits under the state health scheme. “Have anyone of you got free treatment as is being claimed by the state government? We have hospitals here, but there are no doctors or nurses.” Earlier in the day, Ghosh took a dig at Trinamool saying that people in Bengal will become refugees for the second time under this government. “They are out to turn Paschim Bangla into Paschim Bangladesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-hits-out-at-trinamool-over-spiralling-prices-of-potato-onion/articleshow/79573507.cms||Falguni Banerjee
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Stay with me if you have the courage: Didi at party meet||Kolkata: Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday directed East Midnapore district president Sisir Adhikari to start taking disciplinary steps against those who were involved in “anti-party” activities. She was addressing an organizational meeting held with party district heads and MPs. Sisir was not physically present at the meeting held in Kolkata. According to sources, he took part virtually from his Kanthi home. Banerjee proposed changes in party block presidents in Nandigram, Kanthi and Haldia to begin with, and asked to identify others with a similar record, barely a month after Trinamool announced an elaborate “consensus” panel on November 5. The party chief didn’t name Suvendu Adhikari but her directive came days after the rebel leader’s message to Trinamool senior Saugata Roy saying it was getting difficult to work together in the party. “BJP starts engaging agencies ahead of elections. Those who have the courage to stay with me should stay. Others who want to go with the looters (BJP) may leave,” Banerjee said, sending out the clear message that she wanted to begin afresh without the black sheep in Midnapore when she would hold a public rally there on December 7. Trinamool seniors have reasons to believe that Suvendu is in touch with two senior leaders of Bengal BJP since Tuesday night after the meeting at a north Kolkata apartment fell through. No comment was forthcoming from Sisir, who had till date left it to Trinamool brass to handle the rebellion in East Midnapore that had his son Suvendu as the rallying point. Now, the Trinamool district president, on Banerjee’s directives, has to crack the whip on party’s Nandigram I block president Meghnad Pal and Haldia Unnayan block vice-president Somnath Bhuiyan, who had been accompanying Suvendu to all his “party-less” programmes from Nandigram to Haldia. Some other district leaders such as Trinamool district coordinator and zilla parishad karmadhyaksha Anandamoy Adhikari, party district spokesperson Madhurima Mandal and district general secretary Kanishka Ponda too have come under the party’s scanner. Bengal BJP leaders have been frequenting Suvendu’s turf Nandigram and Khejuri and also Kanthi and Haldia to make use of the “confusion and the disbelief” among Trinamool ranks, who are waiting for the rebel leader to clarify his political stand before they take the plunge. BJP state vice-president Bharati Ghosh was in Nandigram’s Reyapara on Friday, a few days after she held a rally in Haldia, and state unit president Dilip Ghosh would be reaching out to Banerjee loyalist and Trinamool MLA Akhil Giri’s constituency Ramnagar on Saturday. Trinamool has already started the search for ‘Dada’ loyalists in West Midnapore. Zilla parishad karmadhyaksha and diehard Suvendu loyalist Amulya Maity lost his security cover on Thursday night, hours before the Trinamool chief held the organizational meeting in Kolkata. Maity was provided two security guards after an attempt was made on his life in 2015. “My two security guards were asked to report at the police station on Thursday evening. One of them called me at 10pm to say they have been asked to pack up,” Maity said. The Trinamool leader, having a close association with the Adhikari family, had lodged a police complaint against the attack on party workers who had escorted Suvendu to a Trinamool leader’s house in Sabang. Maity had also displayed Suvendu’s posters while distributing masks and sanitizers to people during the ongoing pandemic. Trinamool district leaders, however, refused to read much into the development. “It is police that examine the security issue and take decisions accordingly. The party has nothing to do with it,” a Trinamool leader said. (With inputs from Suman Mandal and Sujoy Khanra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stay-with-me-if-you-have-the-courage-didi-at-party-meet/articleshow/79573313.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata speaks to protesting farmers, promises support||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday spoke to farmers on stir at the Delhi-Haryana border in Singhu saying she was with them in their struggle as long as the “anti-farmer” laws are not repealed. Banerjee expressed her willingness to be part of the struggle and announced a string of agitations in Kolkata from December 8 to December 10. She will participate in a Trinamool Congress dharna near Gandhi statue on Mayo Road on December 10. TMC will hit the streets on December 8, the day the farmers have given a Bharat bandh call. The party will also start intensive protests from December 11 to 21 in Bengal. On Friday morning, remembering her 26-day hunger strike in Kolkata — which started on this day in 2006 to oppose farmland acquisition in Singur — Banerjee told the agitating farmers: “I strongly support your movement. The farm laws are being forcibly enacted with brute majority and need to be repealed immediately. I would also like to add how the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 is leading to spiralling prices. It should be an India of farmers, workers, women and children. We would like to support your agitation in Delhi and in Bengal.” The CM’s phone conversation was met with “Bole So Nihal...Sat Sri Akal” chants, to which a moved Banerjee also responded. Earlier in the day, she posted on Twitter, “I express my solidarity with all farmers who are protesting against draconian farm bills passed without consultation by the Centre.” Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien, who reached the Singhu border at 10 am, said he walked for three km and could see a “caravan of tractors and trailers”. “The chief minister spoke to four different groups — from Hoshiarpur, Taran Taran, Faridkot and outside Amritsar. They are packed with rations and appeared for a long haul till the bills are repealed. We interacted with them for four hours. They are extremely aware on how these were passed and are very strong in their resolve that their agitation will only end when the laws are repealed,” he said. Political activist Yogendra Yadav, who was with O’Brien, also spoke at length with Banerjee. TMC MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, in an interaction with reporters, said: “Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) is a state subject. So is agriculture. They are meant to support our farmers. The new laws are bypassing the APMC and the state's jurisdiction. Also, farmers are expected to sell their produce in different markets. These small farmers have probably never left their villages. How will they travel intra and interstate?” “Essential commodities have been deregulated so that the poor in our country won’t even get to have basic foods like rice and potato while those in foreign countries enjoy exported Indian food,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-speaks-to-protesting-farmers-promises-support/articleshow/79573560.cms||Saibal Sen
December 5, 2020||Kolkata||Baisakhi, Sovan go to governor with college grouse||Kolkata: Outgoing teacher-in-charge of Milli Al-Ameen Mission College Baisakhi Banerjee called on chancellor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday seeking a probe into the recent student agitation in front of the college targeted at her, allegedly to settle political scores with her friend Sovan Chatterjee, the former Kolkata mayor and minister. Both Baisakhi and Sovan spent 90 minutes at Raj Bhavan placing the problems before the chancellor, after a lawyer moved court holding Baisakhi responsible for the student unrest. The lawyer complained that students were denied online classes and examinations when online process was working in all other colleges under Calcutta University. Baisakhi denied the charge, saying college authorities changed the agency running the college portal and she had no access to the new login and password. She complained to the governor that she was being harassed and targeted by a section enjoying the indulgence of a powerful minister and a section in Calcutta University. Baisakhi mentioned that she had earlier put in her papers as the college teacher-in-charge. Sovan said they discussed with the governor a number of issues, including the present problems at Milli Al-Ameen College. “The governor gave a patient hearing,” Sovan said while leaving Raj Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/baisakhi-sovan-go-to-governor-with-college-grouse/articleshow/79573681.cms||---
December 5, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Former mayor arrested for crowded birthday celebration||VADODARA: Former mayor and BJP leader Sunil Solanki was arrested by the Sayajigunj police on Friday for flouting Covid-19 guidelines during his birthday bash. Solanki was booked on Thursday along with nine others for not wearing mask and not following social distancing at celebrations. “Solanki was arrested and later granted bail from the police station,” said S G Solanki, Sayajigunj police inspector. On Wednesday evening, the former Mayor had organized a cake cutting ceremony with large number of his supporters at the city BJP office in Sayajigunj. His supporters were jubilant as Solanki, who turned 50, was recently appointed as BJP’s city unit general secretary. At the party office, many party workers turned up to greet him and some even brought cakes. The video of Solanki with one group of supporters went viral on Thursday wherein he and all others had neither wore face masks nor were they following social distancing norms. Solanki had later said that the gathering shouldn’t have taken place. The police on Thursday had registered a case against 10 persons, including Solanki, for flouting the notification as well as under Epidemic Diseases Act. Six people seen in the video were arrested on Thursday but the cops didn’t find Solanki at his home. Solanki said on Friday that no one should flout the Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/former-vadodara-mayor-arrested-for-bday-bash-gets-bail/articleshow/79571213.cms||---
December 5, 2020||India||US OKs $90 million defence hardware sale to India||WASHINGTON: The US has approved the sale of $90 million worth of military hardware and services to India in support of its fleet of C-130J Super Hercules military transport aircraft.This proposed sale will support the foreign policy and national security of the United States by helping to strengthen the US-Indian strategic relationship and improve the security of a “Major Defence Partner”, the Defence Security Cooperation Agency of the Department of Defence said on Thursday. In a major sales notification to Congress, DSCA said that India continues to be an important force for political stability, peace and economic progress in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-oks-90-million-defence-hardware-sale-to-india/articleshow/79575390.cms||---
