December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Sandalwood icons felicitated at Times Kannada Film Icons 2020||The Times Kannada Film Icons 2020 was held on Friday night. The evening saw a host of names from Sandalwood dropping by to felicitate and raise a toast to some of the talented folks in Sandalwood. The showstopper for the evening was Karunada Chakravarthy Dr Shivarajkumar, who even enthralled everyone with his nifty and energetic moves to his hit track Tagaru Banthu Tagaru. All the winners across different aspects of filmmaking were presented with certificates and a unique trophy that was a clapboard, which everyone was in awe of. The event had Suraj Productions and Shalini Arts as association partners. Present at the event were Manjunath Gowda and Ramesh Reddy from the production houses. SHIVARAJKUMAR’S BUSY YEAR AHEAD After making a smashing debut with Anand, consecutive hits made him earn the title Hattrick Hero. Shivarajkumar has since been one of the biggest stars in the industry, who everyone seeks guidance and inspiration from. With a career spanning across four decades, he is now gearing up for his 125th film. Known as the Karunada Chakravarthy, Shivarajkumar’s next release is Bhajarangi 2. Also on the cards is Shivappa as well as another collaboration with filmmaker A Harsha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sandalwood-icons-felicitated-at-times-kannada-film-icons-2020/articleshow/79584107.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangladeshi with fake Indian passport caught at Bengaluru airport||BENGALURU: A 23-year-old Bangladeshi man with a fake Indian passport and other documents was arrested at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) recently. Abu Taher was in possession of an Aadhaar card, voter ID, two-wheeler and four-wheeler driving licences and PAN card availed from Assam. He had paid Rs 5,000 to get these fake documents and Rs 500 to cross the border near West Bengal in 2016, officials said. On November 23, immigration officials detained Abu Taher after his documents were found fake. Taher was holding an Indian passport with the name of Alam Mohammed Yahia, a resident of Doboka in Assam, and had booked a ticket with a Dubai-heading flight. He was handed over to KIA police who have booked FIR under the Citizenship Act and the Passport Act. “Taher worked as daily-wage worker in Assam for a year before travelling to other parts of the country,” said CK Baba, deputy commissioner of police (north-east). An officer said Taher had come to Bengaluru in search of a job. “He stayed in different areas like Hennur and Yelahanka. Taher was offered a job of an office assistant in Dubai and was going there when he was caught. We suspect some more of his friends or family members are in the city or other parts of the country,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bangladeshi-with-fake-indian-passport-caught-at-airport/articleshow/79585833.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Broken bike lock lands vehicle lifter in net||BENGALURU: A broken handle lock discovered during night checking helped police solve 10 motorbike thefts in the city and arrest the suspect. It happened on December 2 when Bagalgunte police from north division were inspecting vehicles near Shettihalli gate. Around 10pm, they flagged down a motorist and asked him for documents. Since the rider failed to produce vehicle papers or a driving licence, the cops decided to seize the bike. “The constable went near the bike and found the handle lock was broken. Further, the vehicle was running without an ignition key. We realised the rider was a bike lifter. We took him to the police station and on being interrogated, he confessed to have stolen 10 motorcycles from different parts of the city,” police said. The accused is Rohit alias Cat Rohit, a resident of Laggere in Rajagopalnagar. A mechanic working with a private motorcycle showroom in Peenya, he started stealing bikes to lead a lavish life, police said. “He was getting a monthly salary of around Rs 12,000. But he splurged on alcohol, mobiles and clothes, landing in debt. He started stealing motorbikes since July this year and would sell them to people living outside the city. We have recovered 10 bikes worth Rs 4.5 lakh from him,” police said, adding: “His friends nicknamed him Cat Rohit due to his love for the animal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/broken-bike-lock-lands-vehicle-lifter-in-net/articleshow/79585836.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: R Roshan Baig gets bail in IMA case||BENGALURU: A special court for CBI cases on Saturday granted bail to former minister R Roshan Baig, who had been arrested by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the multi-crore I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. The CBI had picked him up on November 22 and his residences were raided the next day. After the arrest, he was shifted to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and was discharged later. He was in CBI custody for a day and sent to Central Prison. He has to appear before CBI on second and fourth Mondays and whenever summoned. Apart from cooperating with the probe, he should not threaten witnesses, must surrender passport and inform the court in case of change in address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/baig-gets-bail-in-ima-case/articleshow/79585838.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Many switch from charcoal to LPG iron box to keep business afloat||BENGALURU: Charcoal or electric iron boxes are conventionally used by roadside ironwallahs. The Covid-19 crisis has led to many of them employing another tool — LPG-powered iron box. Such iron boxes are now a common sight at mobile and roadside shops in parts of central Bengaluru. Stall owners say they are more economical and user-friendly. P Muthulakshmi has been ironing clothes for a living for nine years and the Covid-induced lockdown dealt a heavy blow to her business. “When the lockdown began, our charcoal suppliers left Bengaluru and returned to their villages. The LPG iron box came as a saviour during those months. We could afford two square meals with the money I made,” says the 45-year-old who works on Prime Street in Richmond Town. “Even though I was forced to use LPG iron box due to the crisis, now I find it more economical and less cumbersome,” adds the Vinayak Nagar resident, who can’t afford an electric iron box. S Lokeshwaran, a BCom graduate and a former contractual bank employee, says LPG iron box gave him a new livelihood. “I was forced to start a mobile ironing shop as I couldn’t find work during the Covid crisis. I’m making enough money,” says the 28-year-old stationed at Olleff Road in Langford Town. Charcoal shortage The method is slowly getting popular with the company manufacturing the iron box marketing it in central Bengaluru. Since it costs Rs 6,500 upwards, much more than a traditional charcoal iron box (Rs 2,000), many were initially reluctant to use it. But the Covid crisis and scarcity of charcoal led them to make the transition. “Using hot charcoal iron for 15 years left me with ailments as it weighs 10kg and the heat is close to your belly all the time. I had almost decided to wind up when I came to know of the LPG iron, which is lighter and more profitable for our business,” said G Subramani, who runs a mobile iron shop on Curley Street. His wife G Bhavani has also joined him at work with the couple investing in another LPG iron box. With offices gradually resuming post Deepavali, ironwallahs are seeing business pick up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/many-switch-from-charcoal-to-lpg-iron-box-to-keep-biz-afloat/articleshow/79585841.cms||Petlee Peter
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Alternative questions for disabled students likely||BENGALURU: The Consortium of National Law Universities is thinking of providing alternative questions to persons with disabilities, particularly visually challenged candidates, for CLAT 2021. The proposal comes in the backdrop of Supreme Court judge Justice DY Chandrachud’s recent observation that some of the CLAT questions could pose a problem for disabled candidates. In a press note, the consortium thanked Justice Chandrachud for his observation and said: “The consortium believes in ensuring a level-playing field for all candidates. It will never deny equality of opportunity to anyone.” NLU Consortium president Prof Faizan Mustafa has decided to place the suggestions before the executive committee. The note said disabled candidates are already allowed to bring their scribe during CLAT and are given an additional 40 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/alternative-questions-for-disabled-students-likely/articleshow/79585853.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Power outage in some areas from December 7-11||BENGALURU: There will be no power supply from December 7 to 11, between 10am and 6.30pm, in areas under Jayadeva, Sarakki, Khodays and RBI substations. Dec 7: BTM I Stage, JP Nagar II Phase, Marenahalli, Harinagar. Dec 8: Mico Layout, BTM II Stage, JP Nagar, Shrinidhi Layout. Dec 9: Dollars Layout, BG Road. Dec 10: Jai Kumar Layout, Amrutha Nagar, Hari Nagar. Dec 11: J P Nagar, NS Palya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/power-outage-in-some-areas-from-dec-7-11/articleshow/79585854.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Kacharakanahalli residents look forward to new homes||BENGALURU: The high court’s reiteration that the state was duty-bound to protect citizens’ right to shelter, while directing the government to rebuild houses destroyed by land grabbers in Kacharakanahalli, has come as a pleasant surprise to the slum-dwellers. “We were shattered when we saw our houses reduced to ashes. The court’s directive has made us happy as it will help us lead a better life,” said A Nagaraj, a construction worker and resident of the slum in east Bengaluru. The court order was the talking point when TOI visited the area on Saturday. Over 100 huts, which stood on the government land for over a decade, were destroyed by land-grabbers in April when the residents, mostly migrant workers from Kalaburagi, returned to their home district following the lockdown as they found it difficult to survive here. Of the 110 houses, only 18 survived the blaze. The residents were shocked to find their houses destroyed when they returned to Bengaluru in May and their efforts to rebuild them were thwarted by KG Halli police personnel. TOI had highlighted the ordeal faced by the residents. Subsequently, a PIL was filed by an advocate in the high court, which on Friday directed the government to rebuild the huts within two months and also pay compensation. The residents thanked the organisations which supported them in their times of crisis. Some of them who received compensation in August and September following chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka’s intervention said: “With the money we were given we could buy tarpaulins and other necessary material to rebuild our makeshift homes. It was of much help to us.” Mallikarjun J and S Sappanna said: “We are very happy with the high court intervention. It makes us feel like there is someone above who is looking after us. Officials from Karnataka Slum Development Board have been telling us for years that they will help us, but they haven’t.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kacharakanahalli-residents-look-forward-to-new-homes/articleshow/79585856.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Virtual launch: Bengaluru gets a ‘museum for everybody’||BENGALURU: The Museum of Art and Photography’s digital launch on Friday marked the entry of a new museum in the city. And the fact that the inaugural had some of the country’s most-respected business leaders, artistes and writers doing the honours was testimony to art’s ability to unite people. Beginning with brief introductions by museum director Kamini Sawhney and business leader and chairman of MAP’s board of directors, Som Mittal, the launch took the viewer on a virtual tour of the museum with luminaries like theatre personality Arundhati Nag, art historian BN Goswamy, writer Devdutt Pattanaik, actor and director Nandita Das, poet Javed Akhtar, actor Shabana Azmi and artist Jitish Kallat narrating their interpretations of time. “Objects in a museum are located in time, so walking into it is like walking into a time capsule,” Pattanaik said. Biocon chairperson and one of MAP’s patrons, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, invited viewers to become part of the museum’s journey. “It belongs to all of us; the art you see displayed is for all of us to consume and appreciate,” Shaw said. Writer William Dalrymple narrated Indic civilization’s influence on Chinese and central Asian societies. The museum has over 18,000 works of art dating from the 10th century to now. MAP founder Abhishek Poddar said, “Ours is the course of the long-distance runner. An institution that embraces the arts but above all one that endures and sustains. I am delighted what started as a lonely journey has transformed into a collective effort.” The launch marked the beginning of a seven-day online festival called Art (Is) Life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/virtual-launch-bluru-gets-a-museum-for-everybody/articleshow/79585859.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mysuru||Father, brother chop off girl’s fingers at Karnataka's Chamarajnagar district||CHAMARAJNAGAR: A girl who was scheduled to marry her lover against her parents’ wishes landed in hospital on Saturday, after losing four of her fingers. Dhanalakshmi, 24, and Satya, 28, both from PG Palya village of Hanur taluk in Chamarajnagar district, have been in love since two years. They planned to marry after taking Dhanalakshmi’s parents’ consent. However, they too vehemently opposed the relationship. Shivaswamy, Dhanalakshmi’s father and Mahendra, her brother, allegedly attacked her with a sickle and cut off four fingers of her left hand. But the couple decided to go ahead and tie the knot and fixed the date for their wedding, December 7. On Saturday, the father and brother bumped into Dhanalakshmi near a medical store. A heated argument ensued among the three. In a fit of rage, the two caught her and chopped off her fingers. Passersby rushed the injured girl to the hospital. Hanur police arrested the father and brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/father-bro-chop-off-girls-fingers/articleshow/79585865.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Thermal scanners, alternate seating to make Memu & Demu services safe||BENGALURU: With Memu/Demu services all set to resume on Monday, South Western Railway (SWR) is taking precautionary measures to ensure social distancing in trains and stations. Bengaluru divisional railway manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma said: “SWR will be the first railway zone in the country to resume unreserved passenger trains after the lockdown. All steps are being taken to ensure social distancing via proper marking. Memu and Demu rakes are being sanitised.” He said 100 additional thermal scanners are being procured. “RPF staff will screen passengers at 13 of the nearly 70 stations in the division. At other stations, a cleaning staffer will be given the responsibility. In stations where cleaning staff are not available, scouts and guides will be roped in. They will be trained by the divisional medical team,” he said. Verma said only one pair of commuter trains is planned in each section and medical screening will take less than one hour at stations. “It’s not feasible to recruit dedicated staff only for this purpose.” “Alternate seats will be marked in coaches to ensure social distancing. Passengers will have to wear mask throughout the journey. We are planning to distribute masks to those without them,” added Verma. SWR is planning to operate the trains between December 7 and 17. “We will take a decision to extend services based on patronage and feedback,” said Verma. However, he said there is no plan to resume unreserved travel in other trains. SWR on Thursday has decided to operate 52 additional special trains, including 12 short-distance passenger trains connecting Bengaluru, in all directions (Mysuru, Hassan, Hindupur, Hosur, Marikuppam/Bangarpet). This is expected to help daily commuters who visit Bengaluru to earn a livelihood. These services for six days in a week (except Sunday) will be operated as per guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs and standard operating procedure of the Union health ministry. He said a help desk has been set up at KSR Bengaluru, Yeshwantpur and Krishnarajapuram stations for conducting random Covid test by BBMP officials||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/thermal-scanners-alternate-seating-to-make-memu-demu-services-safe/articleshow/79585867.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Kempegowda International Airport halt station likely to open next week||BENGALURU: The halt station near Kempegowda International Airport, which was completed in October, will be operational by next week. “We have submitted the list of trains to be operated towards Devanahalli and Kolar to the SWR zone. We’re awaiting the railway board’s nod now,” Bengaluru divisional railway manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma said on Saturday. Now, three pairs of trains are being operated on the airport route. The facility between Doddajala and Devanahalli stations cost Rs 3 crore to Bengaluru International Airport Limited (BIAL). The station, which is just 3.5km from the KIA terminal, is expected to benefit 28,000 airport employees as well as passengers. BIAL will operate shuttle services between the halt station and airport terminal based on train schedules on this route. The station will have a booking counter, concourse area and restrooms with provision for passengers with reduced mobility. There will also be a cafeteria and vending machines. Based on usage and acceptance, the facilities will be upgraded to cater to the travel needs of commuters. Passengers will be able to check flight details at the halt station itself. The fare is likely to be Rs 10 for ordinary trains and Rs 30 for express ones from Bengaluru City station to KIA halt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kia-halt-station-likely-to-open-next-week/articleshow/79585871.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Book Vayuvajra ticket online, get discount||BENGALURU: Those travelling in Vayuvajra buses (airport AC buses) can book their seats in advance from Sunday. The facility is available at KSRTC booking counters, online (www.ksrtc.in), KSRTC mobile app as well as authorised franchisees. “Passengers must show printed ticket/e-ticket or booking SMS (through mobile/laptop, etc.) along with their identity proof while boarding,” BMTC said. “Group booking discount of 5% on base fare is allowed when four or more seats are booked in a single ticket. There is discount of 10% on basic fare on return journey when both onward and return journeys are booked in a single transaction,” it said. Currently, Vayuvajra services operate from different localities of the city to KIA (164 trips) and from airport towards the city (171 trips). The routes include: HAL Main Gate-KIA, Whitefield TTMC-KIA, Banashankari TTMC-KIA, Kadugodi bus station-KIA, Electronics City-KIA, Chandapura-KIA, Kempegowda bus station -KIA, Mysuru Road-KIA and DLF apartment-KIA. For details, visit: www.ksrtc.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/book-vayuvajra-ticket-online-get-discount/articleshow/79585872.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka cabinet expansion unlikely before gram panchayat polls: BJP chief||BELAGAVI/BENGALURU: The political future of newly elected MLAs continues to be on tenterhooks as there’s no decision yet on the much-anticipated cabinet expansion in Karnataka. This, despite chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s promise that new ministers will be inducted before the winter session of the legislature that begins on Monday. Now, all eyes are on Sunday’s breakfast meeting between Yediyurappa and BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who arrived in Belagavi for the party’s core committee and executive committee meetings on Friday and Saturday. It is said the cabinet rejig is unlikely to happen before the gram panchayat polls as Yediyurappa may not get a green signal from the leadership soon. Though Yediyurappa, his loyal ministers and BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra met Singh separately on the sidelines of party meetings to convince him of the necessity of an early expansion, the latter reportedly remained non-committal. Indicating what transpired at these meetings, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the exercise may not happen this year as GP elections are scheduled for December 22 and 27. “How can the cabinet be expanded when the Election Commission has notified panchayat polls? It cannot happen when the model code of conduct is in place,” Kateel told STOI. He said neither a list of names was handed over to Singh nor was the matter a subject of discussion at the core committee meeting. However, party insiders said at the CM’s behest, Vijayendra passed on the list of names that includes turncoat legislators MTB Nagaraj, N Munirathna and R Shankar along with old-timers Umesh V Katti and CP Yogeshwar. Yediyurappa had on Monday claimed the elections would not come in the way of cabinet reshuffle, and that the exercise would happen in 2-3 days. Singh has reportedly warned the state leaders against speaking about the issue in public. It was evident when home minister Basavaraj Bommai, deputy CM Laxman Savadi and national general secretary CT Ravi refused to comment. Ravi and Savadi maintained that the CM would answer the query as it was his prerogative to make changes in the cabinet. Party insiders close to Yediyurappa said the leadership has already given its nod after Singh was convinced and a formal announcement of the swearing-in ceremony will be made after Sunday’s meeting. Yediyurappa had reportedly told the five MLAs to wait for his call in the morning. A senior functionary close to Singh told STOI that the high command is resorting to delay tactics and it does not want expansion to happen till there’s clarity on leadership change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cabinet-expansion-unlikely-before-gp-polls-bjp-chief/articleshow/79585965.cms||Shreyas HS
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka cabinet expansion unlikely before gram panchayat polls: BJP chief||BELAGAVI/BENGALURU: The political future of newly elected MLAs continues to be on tenterhooks as there’s no decision yet on the much-anticipated cabinet expansion in Karnataka. This, despite chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s promise that new ministers will be inducted before the winter session of the legislature that begins on Monday. Now, all eyes are on Sunday’s breakfast meeting between Yediyurappa and BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who arrived in Belagavi for the party’s core committee and executive committee meetings on Friday and Saturday. It is said the cabinet rejig is unlikely to happen before the gram panchayat polls as Yediyurappa may not get a green signal from the leadership soon. Though Yediyurappa, his loyal ministers and BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra met Singh separately on the sidelines of party meetings to convince him of the necessity of an early expansion, the latter reportedly remained non-committal. Indicating what transpired at these meetings, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the exercise may not happen this year as GP elections are scheduled for December 22 and 27. “How can the cabinet be expanded when the Election Commission has notified panchayat polls? It cannot happen when the model code of conduct is in place,” Kateel told STOI. He said neither a list of names was handed over to Singh nor was the matter a subject of discussion at the core committee meeting. However, party insiders said at the CM’s behest, Vijayendra passed on the list of names that includes turncoat legislators MTB Nagaraj, N Munirathna and R Shankar along with old-timers Umesh V Katti and CP Yogeshwar. Yediyurappa had on Monday claimed the elections would not come in the way of cabinet reshuffle, and that the exercise would happen in 2-3 days. Singh has reportedly warned the state leaders against speaking about the issue in public. It was evident when home minister Basavaraj Bommai, deputy CM Laxman Savadi and national general secretary CT Ravi refused to comment. Ravi and Savadi maintained that the CM would answer the query as it was his prerogative to make changes in the cabinet. Party insiders close to Yediyurappa said the leadership has already given its nod after Singh was convinced and a formal announcement of the swearing-in ceremony will be made after Sunday’s meeting. Yediyurappa had reportedly told the five MLAs to wait for his call in the morning. A senior functionary close to Singh told STOI that the high command is resorting to delay tactics and it does not want expansion to happen till there’s clarity on leadership change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-expansion-unlikely-before-gp-polls-bjp-chief/articleshow/79588341.cms||Shreyas HS
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: PIL seeks measures to protect Great Indian Bustard||BENGALURU: The high court has ordered notice to the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) and others in response to a PIL relating to the Great Indian Bustard, now considered a rare bird in the country. Claiming there are not more than eight surviving bustards in Karnataka, petitioners Edward Santhosh Martin, a conservationist, and two other wildlife enthusiasts sought for immediate measures to protect and preserve the bird and its habitat. According to them, these birds prefer grasslands/open habitat and construction in the name of sanctuary-related work such as watchtowers and anti-poaching camps, and digging of waterholes in their habitat is causing threat to their existence. Such construction needs to be stopped and existing structures should be removed/dismantled at the earliest, the petitioners urged the court. GIB (ardeotisnigriceps) is a large, brown and white bird, with a black crown and white marks on its wings. One of the heaviest flying birds in the country, its height can go up to one metre. Males are tall and weigh about 10-15kg and females weigh between 5-10kg. Tbe bird has been listed under Schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act,1972, since its inception. The petitioners said at the time of Independence, these birds were found throughout western India and have now disappeared from 90 per cent of their habitat and are found in fragmented pockets in Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pil-seeks-measures-to-protect-great-indian-bustard/articleshow/79585972.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Prisoners can meet family via video call||BENGALURU: Soon, inmates of central and district prisons of the state can meet family members and friends through video conference. After Covid-19 broke out this March, visitors have been restricted from entering prisons to meet their loved ones. As many inmates have been missing their family, they’ve been writing to senior officials and seeking permission for interaction. After eight months, interaction has resumed and now, visitors needn’t go to the prison. “Those who wish to meet prisoners can send us a requisition through the e-Prisons website,” a senior prison official said. Prisoners to get 5-10 min for online meetingAfter checking the background of applicants and legal documents like Aadhaar, voter ID card or driving licences, we’ll register their names,” a senior prison official said. “A username and password is generated and on the day of the video conference, an OTP is sent to the registered number. Once it is entered, the video conference is activated. The prisoner will be in a dedicated room,” a senior prison official said. “Each prisoner will get 5-10 minutes. The duration can be increased in special cases where aged parents wish to speak longer.” This facility has been extended to all eight central and 19 district prisons in the state. Karnataka has around 14,800 prisoners. According to CentralPrison officials at Parappana Agrahara, video conferencing is a welcome move. Currently, there are around 5,100 prisoners at this prison and some 2,500 are convicts. During non-Covid-19 days, on an average between 100 and 150 persons would visit prisoners on weekdays between 10am and 5pm. In prison jargon, the meeting is called an ‘interview’. Visitors would have to wait in a queue and this was a problem for aged persons. “Compared to physical meetings, video conference can be monitored easily and without wasting time. We have to careful nevertheless as miscreants will try to take advantage of the situation. Anti-social elements may call their friends in prison and discuss criminal activities. That’s why we’ll carefully check the background of persons wishing to speak to inmates,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/prisoners-to-get-5-10-min-for-online-meeting/articleshow/79585981.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Activists detained, normal life not hit||BENGALURU: The statewide bandh called by pro-Kannada outfits on Saturday to oppose the government’s decision to create a development authority for the Maratha community did not impact normal life. Though protests were held in various parts of the city, police brought the situation under control. Protesters gathered near Town Hall and Freedom Park among other places and tried to block roads but were detained by police, who took them to City Armed Reserve (CAR) and Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) grounds. About 12,000 policemen were deployed in various areas. Many activists who were travelling to Bengaluru were stopped at entry points. Traffic on Mysuru Road, Seshadri Road and nearby places was affected in the morning. While autorickshaws, cabs, buses and Metro were operational, hotels and provision stores remained open. Most of the shops in Chamarajpet and KR Market were closed in the morning but opened later. Many roads in central business district were deserted. A coalition of Kannada organisations led by Vatal Nagaraj also tried to block roads but failed. Nagaraj alleged about 25,000 activists who wanted to protest peacefully were detained by police. Bengaluru police had not sanctioned permission either to hold a bandh or stage protests. Nagaraj said the state used police force to sabotage the bandh and demonstrations. The pro-Kannada organisations had set a November 30 deadline for the government to withdraw its decision to establish the authority. However, following cabinet approval, the government issued an order to set it up with an allocation of Rs 50 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/activists-detained-normal-life-not-hit/articleshow/79585990.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||The image of Lucknow has undergone a makeover in 25 years: Writers-directors||When seeing Lucknow on silver screen, what one saw, till a couple of years back, was a paan-chewing nawab, or everyone having a nawabi attitude, a gunda-turned-neta, demure lost-in-the-woods babes and bhaiyyas. But over the years, as Lucknow has opened its doors to film and TV show shoots and reaching out to the world with its ‘modern’ feel, perception of writers has changed of the city and its people. Akshay Kumar and Huma Qureshi in the film Jolly LLB 2, that released in 2017, somewhat mirrored typical Lakhnawi characters of a middle class aspiring couple (BCCL)And while the netas and bhaiyyas’ depiction remain almost the same as 25 years back, the girls are now no longer the bholi-bechari types. Girls in films and TV shows based in Lucknow are now shown as what they are – a perfect blend of traditional and modern with an attitude to match, as two well-known writers-producers-directors of popular TV shows tell us . Meena Kumari in Pakeezah, a story that released in the 70s was a story of a Lakhnawi nawab and a tawaif (BCCL)Lucknow boy Saurabh Tewari, a writer, director and producer of several serials, says that it took a long time for the film industry to get a clear image of Lucknowites in their minds. “The entertainment industry for a very long time, had the image of Lucknowites inspired from the movies like Umrao Jaan, Mere Apne, Paakezah, Gadar – Ek Prem Katha. The general perception of people was that of people eating paan with a pandaan beside them, wearing achkan, kurta-payjama and girls wearing salwar-suits and gharara and sharara. Lucknow carried a very period time waali city ka image and the people too were portrayed similarly on screen,” Saurabh laughs out loud, adding, “However, it is very recently that the stories and the characters coming out of Lucknow have become urban. “We now have stories of the notorious gangsters like Shri Prakash Shukla being screened on OTT platform, we have a Jolly LLB 2 showcasing Lucknowites and their lifestyle, my own show Krishna Chali London showcased a very urban image of Lucknowites. So basically, Lucknow and Lucknowites are now getting the tag of being like just any metro city. Even the female characters shown in films and TV serials are the college going girls, who are career oriented too. The socio-political scenario of Lucknow too has grabbed the attention of the entertainment world now. Even I am directing a show, for which I was shooting in Lucknow, wherein my lead character Jai Kishan, who turns Jackson later, is a Lucknowite and is relatable to a boy living in any other metro city. So the image of Lucknowites has merged with the image of any other person living in any metro. This I think is a very big change for us city folk!" Krishna Chali London serial, that aired in 2018-19 was the story of a modern day girl from Lucknow (BCCL)The serial Madam Sir, aired till recently, was about lady cops from the city (BCCL)Agrees Lucknowite Ravindra Gautam, who has directed several TV serials and films like Ekkis Toppon Ki Salami starring Anupam Kher in lead. “Locations and people of Lucknow have always fascinated the entertainment world. Both the city and the people have always had a mention and screen share in serials and films. Some 25 years back, or even before that, we always saw characters from Lucknow as illiterate people chewing paan or corrupt politicians.Our image was confined to that only. It is very recently that our image underwent a makeover. The city has had several small town stories being told now, which is actually like that of any other city in the country. Having said that, while Lucknow's locations have been over exposed in cinema, several stories coming out from the lives of Lucknowites are still untold on the screen. There is so much to explore about us. Mostly, we have had lower middle class stories coming out from Lucknow. But now as a writer, my next two stories concentrate on the progressive image of city folk. Just like Mumbai is not just about dabbawaalahs and Marathi culture, Lucknow too it not about Nawabs and illiterate people. And I think over the past 25 years, the industry has learnt about this and hamari image ab bahut change ho gayi hai unke minds mein," he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/the-image-of-lucknow-has-undergone-a-makeover-in-25-years-writers-directors/articleshow/79582920.cms||Akash Wadhwa
December 6, 2020||Varanasi||Banarasis are all game for celebrations at this do||A bash was recently jointly organised by a social club and its womens’ wing, to celebrate the festive season. The venue was all decked up with flowers, giving the perfect background for the guests for a photo opportunity. (L) Shashi Kishnani (R) Ajit and Mona (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Shashi Kishnani (R) Ajit and Mona (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Vijay (R) Anjali (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Vijay (R) Anjali (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) Keeping the Covid-19 safety protocols in mind, the guests sported masks and had provision of hand sanitization at the entrance of the venue that was an open air lawn. After the welcome of the guests , members Ritu and Ajay rendered Tere Mere Milan Ki Yeh Raina. This was followed by some interesting games like Iski Topi Uske Sar and musical chairs. (L-R) Govind, Amit Agrawal and Sanjay Gupta (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L-R) Govind, Amit Agrawal and Sanjay Gupta (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Liza and Dr Manish (R) Kamal and Santosh Agrawal (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Liza and Dr Manish (R) Kamal and Santosh Agrawal (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) The evening was made special, as members who were declared winners of an online Karwa Chauth competition, were honoured. The winners included Mona and Ajit, Ajay and Ritu, Ankur and Sakshi, Sanjay and Anjali among others. (L) Ritu and Ajay (R) Mahesh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Ritu and Ajay (R) Mahesh (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) (L) Sakshi & Ankur (R) Sanjay and Anjali (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)(L) Sakshi & Ankur (R) Sanjay and Anjali (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/banarasis-are-all-game-for-celebrations-at-this-do/articleshow/79582565.cms||Meera Vohra
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||A walk to celebrate LU’s 100 years in the city||The Lucknow University organised a Centennial walk on Sunday morning that began from the campus and ended at the Governor’s House. Participants included Alok Kumar Rai, LU VC, Prof Neeraj Jain, Chairman of the Centennial Sports Committee, faculty and students of the university. (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) Siraj Fatima (L) and Shikha Rani (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Siraj Fatima (L) and Shikha Rani (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) The group walked all the way from LU, passing Hanuman Setu, Hazratganj and reached the Governor’s House where they were greeted by Anandi Ben Patel, Governor, UP and were hosted for tea by her. (L) Dr Neeraj Jain (R) Dr Ritu Narang (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)(L) Dr Neeraj Jain (R) Dr Ritu Narang (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) Prof Rajiv Manohar (L) and Dr SA Rizvi (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)Prof Rajiv Manohar (L) and Dr SA Rizvi (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-walk-to-celebrate-lus-100-years-in-the-city/articleshow/79582688.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Government seeks time till Wednesday for concrete proposals; Tuesday bandh to go ahead||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: With farm unions sticking to their demand that the new agri laws be scrapped and insisting that they will proceed with the December 8 “Bharat Bandh”, the Centre on Saturday said it would draft some concrete proposals and meet the unions again a day after the all-India strike. Signalling a hard stance, some farm leaders held placards with “Yes or No” written on them at the discussions with agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and railway & consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal. Tomar struck a conciliatory note after the meeting, saying the government is committed to farmers and has increased the agriculture budget as well as the MSP. Farmers stage silent protest at meetThe Centre’s strategy seemed aimed at presenting detailed arguments and ensuring the dialogue does not break down despite lack of progress. The farmer groups agreed for talks on December 9. As on past occasions, the discussions stretched through the day, and there came a time when an uneasy silence descended till Tomar proposed the next date for talks, saying there will be further consultations within the government on the demands. The flashpoint saw farmers stay silent and “reverse” their mikes as a Gandhian way of protest. During the meeting, Tomar asked farm leaders to send back the old and children from the protests as the winter is deepening. But elders camping at Singhu and Tikri borders said they will go back only after their demands are met. “We have been facing harsh winters and hotter summers during farming and this winter is nothing compared to that,” Gurbaksh Singh, a 74-year-old who’s been protesting at Singhu border, told TOI. “Now that we are demanding repealing of the laws, the government is talking of amendments. Earlier, they weren’t even ready for that, but the time for amendments has passed,” BKU (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said. Punjab Kisan Union president Ruldu Singh Mansa said, “The government may hold more meetings, but we are not going to settle for anything less than our ultimate goal.” Before the meeting, Tomar, home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Goyal took part in discussions with PM Modi. The various concessions offered by the Centre in terms of equalising taxes between APMC mandis and private trade, ensuring higher courts of appeal for contract disputes and a written assurance that the MSP system will not be dismantled have failed to move the farmers who insist that the laws be repealed — a demand the Centre will not concede. In fact, government sources insisted that the new laws have begun to deliver benefits for a large section of farmers. The farmers’ delegation expressed the need for a definite answer, saying they have nothing more to discuss now as they have already told the government what they wanted. At one stage, they even threatened to walk out of the meeting if they didn’t get an answer. It is learned that the government will try to send its proposal to farmer unions in advance before the scheduled talks on December 9. Referring to other apprehensions over the regulated “mandi” system under the new law, Tomar said, “They are not affected by the law either. The government is, in fact, ready to do anything in its power to further strengthen APMCs. APMC is a state subject,” Apart from repeal of farm laws, farmers are demanding guaranteed minimum support price (MSP), withdrawal of the proposed electricity (amendment) law and keeping the provision of penalising farmers for stubble-burning out of the ambit of the new ordinance on air quality management in Delhi-NCR. A few farmer leaders expressed confidence. “It seems the government will roll back the laws,” Hannan Mollah, general secretary, All India Kisan Sabha, told reporters after the meeting. Watch Farmers protest: Govt seeks more time for consultation on farmers' demand; next meeting on December 9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-seeks-time-till-wednesday-for-concrete-proposals-tuesday-bandh-to-go-ahead/articleshow/79587091.cms||Vishwa Mohan
December 6, 2020||India||PM to lay foundation stone for new Parliament building on December 10||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the New Parliament building on December 10 with a ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the project which is to be completed by 2022, coinciding with 75 years of India’s independence, at an estimated cost of over 970 crore. “The existing temple of democracy is completing 100 years... It is a matter of pride for our countrymen that the new one will be built by our own people as a prime example of Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said, giving details of the proposed building to reporters on Saturday. “The new building will showcase the cultural diversity of the country. Hopefully, in the 75th year of independence (2022), Parliament session will be held in the new building,” he said. The grand 4-storey building will be a modern one and also incorporate regional arts and crafts. On the periphery of the new building, blocks will come up for reception, information counter and public waiting area. It will be made accessible for the differently-abled. Besides the main entrance, the triangular structure will have a ceremonial entrances and one exclusively for the Speaker of Lok Sabha and Chairman of Rajya Sabha. Built over an area of 64,500 sq m, the building will have more space to accommodate 888 MPs in Lok Sabha compared to the present strength of 543 members while Rajya Sabha will accommodate 384 seats against the current strength of 245. The number of members in both Houses is likely to increase after 2026 due to delimitation. Birla said Lok Sabha will have the option to increase seating capacity to 1,224 for joint sittings and there will be no Central Hall. He said artisans and sculptors from all over the country would showcase India’s cultural diversity in the new building, making it a symbol of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Birla said each MP would be provided with a 40 sq m office space. “Current arrangement undermines the dignity of the institution and poses security challenges as movements are highly restricted. Offices within the Parliament are quite cramped and lack basic services. The facilities such as meeting rooms, press rooms, etc. are also inadequate and severely stressed,” a senior officer said. The new building has been designed for better facilities, space and technology, which will meet current and future needs. As per the plan, the digital audio-visual system, which will be placed in front of every seat, will have “programmable rules-based microphones”, which will put the Speaker in control of who gets to speak and who doesn't. The existing Parliament building was designed to house the imperial legislative council and was not planned for a bicameral national legislature. Two floors were added to the structure in 1956 due to demand for more space. (With inputs from Dipak Dash)Watch Bhoomi pujan for new Parliament building will be on 10 December||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-new-parliament-building-on-december-10/articleshow/79587234.cms||Akhilesh Singh
December 6, 2020||India||BJP trying to topple Rajasthan government again: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Amit Shah and Dharmendra Pradhan of making fresh attempts to destabilise the Congress government in the state. Gehlot also opened past wounds by indirectly targeting former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who had sought a change of guard in the state in July. Gehlot claimed that Shah and Pradhan, along with BJP MP Syed Zafar Islam, recently met some Congress MLAs over tea and tried to convince them that the Congress government in Rajasthan could be toppled as was done in five other states. Don’t blame us for your internal fights: BJPNarrating the alleged incident, Gehlot said, “The meeting lasted an hour. The MLAs told me they felt ashamed that the Union home minister’s post was once donned by Sardar Patel but now it was being held by Shah, who was offering us sweets and namkeen. Dharmendra Pradhan was ‘acting’ as if talking to SC and HC judges to ‘encourage’ the MLAs. They (BJP members) tried to make us feel that it was a matter of pride for him (Shah) that five state governments have been toppled and the sixth one might be toppled too.” “Now we get to hear that the next turn is that of Maharashtra,” said Gehlot. The CM made the charges while addressing an inauguration function of a Congress office in Sirohi. He asked Congressmen to be cautious of BJP that was conspiring to topple state governments using money and muscle power. Reacting to the statement by Gehlot accusing Shah of plotting to topple the Congress government, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria called it absurd and said that they have been telling Gehlot not to blame others for the differences within his party. “The differences among top Congress members are known to all. The CM is yet again passing the blame on BJP for the threat they have from their own members,” he said. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore said the internal fight in Congress is so intense that revolt can take place anytime. Watch BJP conspiring against Rajasthan govt: CM Ashok Gehlot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-trying-to-topple-rajasthan-government-again-ashok-gehlot/articleshow/79587370.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Active Covid cases fall to 137-day low, toll hits 1.4 lakh||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 death toll in India crossed 1.4 lakh on Saturday even as active cases in the country dropped to nearly 4 lakh, its lowest count in 137 days, with the creeping fall in fresh cases continuing. Overall fatalities from the virus stood at 1,40,167 after 482 deaths were added to the tally on Saturday. India has recorded the third highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the world after the US (285,550 fatalities) and Brazil (175,981). This was the first time in five days that the daily toll had fallen below 500. India’s case fatality rate, the percentage of patients dying from the disease, stands at nearly 1.5% and has been dropping gradually. There were less than 4,04,000 active cases in the country, the lowest since July 21, with the number falling by nearly 6,000 during the day. The count of active cases is set to drop below the 4-lakh mark on Sunday, if the present falling trend in cases continues. The last time India’s tally of active cases was below 4 lakh was on July 19. The country recorded 36,053 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the total caseload to 96,44,151, as per TOI’s data collated from state government figures. Daily cases have remained in the 36,000-37,000 range for the past five days, a drop from last week’s daily average of 41,700.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-covid-cases-fall-to-137-day-low-toll-hits-1-4-lakh/articleshow/79587424.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19: ‘Superspreader’ Dehradun wedding leaves 2 dead||DEHRADUN: Wedding festivities of a merchant navy officer and daughter of an Army officer held in Dehradun recently turned sour as the couple tested positive for Covid-19 soon after tying the knot. The groom’s mother, sister, aunt and two maternal uncles were also subsequently found infected. While the aunt is admitted in Doon Hospital and is undergoing dialysis, both the uncles died of Covid-19 within 10 days of attending the wedding. Speaking to TOI, the bridegroom said that soon after the wedding on November 20, he and his wife were planning a trip to Himachal Pradesh and had taken the Covid-19 test as a precaution before travelling. He added that nearly 100 people who had attended the wedding have now been contacted. Surprisingly, health authorities when queried about the Covid spread in the wedding claimed ignorance about the incident initially. Watch Covid-19: How a Dehradun wedding turns sour||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/superspreader-doon-wedding-leaves-2-dead/articleshow/79587438.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 6, 2020||India||India's overall Covid-19 case count crosses 96-lakh mark||NEW DELHI: The overall coronavirus cases in India crossed the 96-lakh mark with 36,652 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Saturday. The overall Covid-19 cases reached 96,08,211, including 4,09,689 active cases and 90,58,822 recoveries. Meanwhile, India reported less than 50,000 cases for the 28th day in a row. With 512 new deaths, the cumulative toll mounted to 1,39,700. Delhi reported 3,419 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the total count of cases in the national capital to 5,89,544. According to the Delhi government health bulletin, 4,916 recoveries and 77 deaths were reported on Saturday. Madhya Pradesh reported 1,352 new COVID-19 cases, 12 deaths and 1,449 recoveries. The total cases are 2,13,050 and total recoveries are 1,96,192 while the death toll is 3,326. The active cases are 13,532. West Bengal reported 3,175 new COVID-19 cases, 3,207 recoveries, and 49 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the State Health Department. With 905 new COVID-19 cases, 945 cured cases and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours, the total number of positive cases in Himachal Pradesh rose to 44,405 till date. Karnataka reported 1,325 new COVID-19 cases (709 in Bengaluru), 1,400 discharges, and 12 deaths today. Uttar Pradesh reported 1,940 new COVID-19 cases, 2,230 discharges and 23 deaths on Saturday. A total of 98 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Chandigarh today. The total cases have risen to 17,926. The death toll is at 289, the Union Territory Administration said. Tamil Nadu reported 1,366 new COVID19 cases, 1,407 discharges, and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours, State Health Department, Government of Tamil Nadu said. Manipur reported 166 new COVID-19 cases, 210 recoveries and 4 deaths today, taking total cases to 25,857 including 22,655 recoveries, 299 deaths and 2,903 active cases, State Health Department said. On Friday, during an all-party meeting, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the COVID-19 vaccine is expected in the next few weeks, and vaccination will start in India as soon as scientists give a green signal. (ANI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-overall-covid-19-case-count-crosses-96-lakh-mark/articleshow/79587447.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Jharkhand last state to join government's GST plan||NEW DELHI: Jharkhand has also agreed to accept the Centre’s proposal on market borrowing to compensate for shortfall in revenues due to GST implementation, bringing down the curtains on the acrimony over the issue between the government and opposition-ruled states. Several opposition-ruled states had argued at a special GST Council session that the Centre should borrow the money from the market as it would get a better rate while borrowing by states would put a burden on their debt servicing and they would get a higher rate. GST: Next instalment of 6k crore to be given to states on December 7The Centre has set up a special borrowing window for states and union territories that choose Option 1, which has been operationalised since October 23. The government has already borrowed Rs 30,000 crore in five instalments and passed it on. Now, Jharkhand will also receive the funds raised through this window. The next instalment of Rs 6,000 crore will be released to the states and the union territories on December 7. Under the terms of Option 1, besides the facility of a special window, the states are also entitled to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.5% of gross state domestic product out of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the Centre under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan. Jharkhand has been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 1,765 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jharkhand-last-state-to-join-governments-gst-plan/articleshow/79587490.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Patna||Many NDA netas eye 12 vacant seats in Bihar legislative council||PATNA: There are many in the race in the ruling NDA for 12 vacant seats of nomination quota in the Bihar legislative council. More than 60 senior politicians of JD(U), BJP and HAM(S), including many former ministers and former MLAs who lost the recently concluded assembly elections, are lobbying before the top leaders of their respective parties in the NDA to get a berth in the council. As per the constitutional provisions, 12 seats in the 75-member upper house of the Bihar legislature are filled through nomination by the governor. The aspirants for these 12 seats feel that Nitish Kumar-led NDA government might recommend to the Raj Bhavan a list of 12 people for nomination as MLCs, along with the likely expansion of the state cabinet in the near future. Hence, the lobbying for the nomination quota seats has been intensified in the recent days. Last nomination on these 12 seats was made on May 24, 2014 and their six-year term ended on May 23 this year. Of the total 12 seats of nomination quota, two fell vacant in May 2019 after resignation of former minister Pashupati Kumar Paras (LJP) and JD(U) leader Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh. Both the leaders resigned from the membership of the council in May 2019, days after their election as member of the Lok Sabha from Hajipur and Munger parliamentary seats, respectively. The rest 10 seats fell vacant on May 23 this year, after nominated members Ram Lashan Ram ‘Raman’, Vijay Kumar Mishra, Rana Gangeshwar Singh, Javed Iqbal Ansari, Shiv Prasann Yadav, Sanjay Kumar Singh alias Gandhijee, Ram Bachan Roy, Lallan Kumar Sarraf, Ranbir Nandan and Ramchandra Bharti completed their six-year term. Sources in the NDA said two ministers in the current cabinet – Ashok Choudhary and Mukesh Sahni – are not members of any of the two houses of the state legislature. As per the statutory provisions, they should become members of any of the two houses within six months of taking oath as the minister to continue in the cabinet. Hence, the CM may prefer to nominate them as MLC from the nomination quota. The BJP leadership had promised to provide one seat of council to the Sahni-led Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) during the seat-sharing agreement for the assembly polls between the two parties. If Choudhary and Sahni are sent to the council from the nomination quota, only 10 seats will be left for distribution among the NDA allies. Sources in the NDA said the BJP and JD(U) would distribute the 12 seats on 50:50 ratio. Of the six BJP seats, one will be provided to Sahni as per the previous agreement. The BJP would nominate its leaders against the remaining five seats. Among the aspirants from the BJP camp, former MLCs Radha Mohan Sharma, Krishna Kumar Singh (Gaya district) and Kameshwar Choupal are said to be the frontrunners for the nomination quota seats. The names of Rajendra Gupta, Devesh Kumar and former MP Janak Chamar are also doing the rounds. In the JD (U) camp, few former MLCs like Lallan Kumar Sarraf, party spokesperson Sanjay Singh and Sanjay Kumar Singh alias Gandhiji might get another chance to serve as the MLC, sources in the party said. Sources said former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi also wants one of the six seats of JD (U) quota for his party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-nda-netas-eye-12-vacant-seats-in-bihar-legislative-council/articleshow/79586155.cms||Madan Kumar
December 6, 2020||Patna||Campaign highlights need for better family planning services||PATNA: Extending its tentacles across social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter, the recently-concluded ‘Swasth Mahila Swasth Bihar’ campaign made hundreds of women aware about the need for improved family planning services in health centres. With the help of artworks, songs, videos and tongue-twisters, it also engaged over 15,000 women in marketplaces and communities. An initiative of a social impact agency, the ‘Swasth Mahila Swasth Bihar’ campaign mobilized volunteers, mostly students of Patna Women’s College and Patna Medical College, to interact with women during festivals like Durga Puja, Dhanteras and Chhath and ask them what they want when they visit a health facility. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdowns, they worked closely with ‘Bihart’, an organization that brings together hundreds of artists, to spread awareness about improved access to family planning services in Patna. Asked about their experiences, most women brought to light the grim situation at the health centres. “I did not get a chair to sit in”, “I was made to wait for hours”, “I was not asked, but told,” rued some of them. A local resident, Sangeeta Das, told the volunteers, “Women have the right to choose the method of contraception that works for them. They need to be given options and informed about the side effects.” In order to reach out to the masses during the pandemic and keep the conversation about better family planning services alive, radio channels and self-help groups were also roped in as part of the ‘Swasth Mahila Swasth Bihar’ campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/campaign-highlights-need-for-better-family-planning-services/articleshow/79586259.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Revenue-starved Maharashtra eases rules to let 1,500 liquor shops re-open||MUMBAI: In a move aimed at boosting its revenue, the state government on Friday issued orders to relax a clutch of rules that would enable nearly 1,500 liquor shops to re-open after they were forced to close some years ago after a 2016 Supreme Court ruling. Now, liquor shops located within 5km of a municipal corporation limit and 3km of a municipal council limit will not be affected by the ruling that disallowed sale of alcohol within 500m of highways. These relaxations are the latest in a series of steps by the state over the years to mitigate the order’s effects. After the SC order, the state had denotified highways within municipal limits, resulting in their status changing to regular roads. This way, liquor shops were able to continue with their business. The state had later extended the denotification to give the same relaxation to liquor shops within 3km of a municipal corporation limit or 1km of a municipal council limit. The latest move merely modifies the distance allowed to make it more liberal. The nearly 1,500 shops that will now be able to operate again are among the around 2,200 shops that had remained affected despite the many steps by the state. Another rule that was modified was to allow liquor shops in villages where the population is higher than 1,500, a number that before Friday was 5,000. The Friday orders were issued by the home department. An official said that with about 1,500 more liquor shops re-opening, the state will generate revenue of Rs 15 crore by way of licence renewal and nearly Rs 80 crore by way of excise duty on liquor sale. The latest relaxation also added areas under special planning authorities like the MMRDA, PMRDA and NAINA as places where liquor shops can be opened. So far, this relaxation was only available to MIDC areas. There are currently 25,000 liquor shops in the state. Over 50% of them had been affected by the SC order before the state handed over the highways to the municipal corporations and councils. Excise duty on liquor has been a major revenue earner for the state, so much so that it had opened liquor shops even in the first phase of the lockdown. The state had also allowed home delivery of liquor. Between April and November this year the state generated a revenue of Rs 8,000 crore from excise duty against a revenue of Rs 10,000 crore last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/revenue-starved-state-eases-rules-to-let-1500-liquor-shops-re-open/articleshow/79587340.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 6, 2020||Patna||LJP on verge of split, says expelled leader||PATNA: The internal conflict in the LJP came to the fore with the party expelling its state general secretary Keshav Singh from the primary membership for demanding resignation of Chirag Paswan from the post of the national president of the party. Keshav, however, said the party would split in January next year and the “real LJP” would be formed on the ideologies of its founder and former Union minister late Ram Vilas Paswan. LJP media cell in-charge Krishna Singh Kallu said on Saturday that Keshav was expelled from the primary membership of the party on the directive of Chirag. “Keshav is no longer associated with the LJP,” Kallu said. Keshav was quick to “thank” both Chirag and his assistant Gaurav Pandey for their decision to expel him from the party’s membership for a term of six years. Taking a dig at the two top leaders, Keshav said, “I must congratulate you for shattering the dreams of late Ram Vilas Paswan, who nurtured the party with his sincere efforts for about two decades.” LJP MP from Hajipur Pashupati Kumar Paras, however, ruled out the possibility of any split in the party. “These are just rumours. There is no conflict in the party,” Paras, the younger brother of senior Paswan, said. Keshav alleged that Chirag’s leadership weakened the party’s base, which was reflected during the recently held assembly polls. The party, which once had 29 MLAs, finished with just one member in the 2020 assembly polls, he said. Talking to media persons, Kehav alleged that Chirag has a soft corner for the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan. “This is why he fielded candidates of the party against BJP nominees in Raghopur and Bhagalpur assembly constituencies, which led to the defeat of the BJP,” he added. While RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav won from Raghopur, Congress candidate Ajit Sharma was elected from Bhagalpur. Sharma was later chosen Congress legislature party leader. Keshav described Chirag’s “love” for the BJP a political gimmick. The LJP chief had on Wednesday dismantled all committees and dissolved its units. He had announced that new committees would be formed in next two months. In the 2020 assembly election, the LJP won one seat out of the 135 seats it had contested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-on-verge-of-split-says-expelled-leader/articleshow/79586228.cms||Ramashankar
December 6, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 recovery rate touches 97.2% in Bihar||PATNA: With 573 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the state’s virus tally rose to 2,38,541on Saturday. Five more virus causalities in the last 24 hours, on the other hand, took the state’s toll to 1,292. Officially, Patna, Gaya, Katihar, Madhubani and Saran districts reported one each death on Saturday. With this, the Covid toll in Patna district has touched 335. As per the state health department, 758 patients were discharged from different hospitals and isolation centres in the last 24 hours. So far, 2,31,866 people have recovered from the virus, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.2%. The number of active cases in the state stood at 5,383 on Saturday. As many as 1,28,642 samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,53,02,698 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. No Covid casualty was reported at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) and Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Saturday. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 13 patients were admitted to the hospital on Saturday, including some from different Patna localities like Gola Road, Pokarjara, Patrakar Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Rajeev Nagar. With 17 more patients leaving the hospital after recovering from the virus on Saturday, the number of Covid patients at AIIMS-P stood at 171. At NMCH, two people were discharged and two admitted on Saturday. Of 573 new cases registered on Saturday, Patna accounted for 197. With this, the district’s Covid tally has touched 43,151. So far, 40,905 people have recovered from the virus in the district. Among other districts, Purnia recorded 32 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, Nalanda 31, Begusarai 20, Madhubani 19 and Muzaffarpur 18. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 758 people have recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-recovery-rate-touches-97-2-in-state/articleshow/79585082.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: UDF-Welfare Party of India tie-up in peril as Congress leaders rock boat||KOZHIKODE: The electoral understanding between Welfare Party of India (WPI), the political arm of the Jama’at-e-Islami, and UDF has run into rough weather with Congress central leadership opposing any such arrangement. Party leaders have been singing in different tunes when asked about the tie-up. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal is the latest to come out against seat adjustments with WPI. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Venugopal said Congress does not approve of any tie-up with communal organizations and the state unit of the party has no power to overrule the position of the central leadership. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy and V D Satheesan MLA are toeing the central leadership’s line, even as UDF convener M M Hassan and K Muraleedharan MP assert the compromise was sanctioned by the political affairs committee of the party. Hassan said Mullappally was aware of the understanding. But the KPCC chief refuted the allegation, even going to the extent of saying that action will be taken against those who promote such arrangements. However, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), which initiated seat-arrangement talks with WPI, is getting increasingly agitated over the row. It believes the Congress move is part of plans to isolate it in the event of an electoral debacle. IUML leaders have maintained that discussions with Jama’at-e-Islami were with the knowledge of the UDF leadership. Though senior Congress leaders are feigning ignorance, the UDF-WPI understanding in various local bodies is an open secret. Moreover, many Congress leaders have attended campaign meetings of the combine. Congress is trying to distance itself from the tie-up because it fears that acknowledging a relationship with Jama’at could antagonize the traditional vote bank of the UDF. Many Muslim organizations had expressed reservations over UDF getting cosy with Jama’at. Both Sunni factions and all Mujahid groups openly opposed the move ‘to give credibility to an organization’ which they have been fighting for decades. The Kanthapuram faction of the Sunnis is openly campaigning against the Jama’at. The sect’s EK faction, which is traditionally loyal to IUML, is also not happy with the tie-up. The Mujahids have opposed the UDF-WPI association, too. IUML had taken the initiative overlooking these oppositions. Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema president Syed Muhammad Jifri Muthukoya Thangal warned that IUML is free to choose its allies, but it should also be ready to face the consequences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/udf-wpi-tie-up-in-peril-as-congress-leaders-rock-boat/articleshow/79585085.cms||Prashanth M P
December 6, 2020||Patna||Follow rules and drive safe, transport dept tells motorists||PATNA: In a bid to prevent road accidents owing to poor visibility in winter season and expecting foggy days ahead, the Bihar Road Safety Council of transport department on Saturday issued an advisory for the motorists, advising them to take precautions to avoid any untoward incident. The council has asked the officials of road construction department, rural works department, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and all the DMs to take necessary measures to help people drive safe in the event of fog and low visibility. The departments concerned have been asked to start preparations as per the standards of Indian Roads Congress (IRC) to ensure the safety of commuters. The measures include road surface marking, installation of blinker lights, road stud reflectors, reflective tapes and signage. Transport secretary-cum-member secretary of the council Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said number of accidents usually rises during winter due to low visibility caused by dense fog. “The department has asked the officials concerned to initiate measures to prevent road accidents in morning and night hours. The NHAI has been urged to install blinkers and reflective markers to avoid accidents,” he said. Agarwal said road marking would be done as per IRC-35. “Objective hazard markers and reflective tapes would be installed on houses and trees along the roads. Warning sins will be installed in accordance to IRC-67. Crash barriers will be constructed around bridges and culverts for protection of vehicles from colliding with abutments,” he added. Agarwal instructed all the DMs to hold awareness drive for safe driving. “People should be encouraged to install reflective tape in their vehicles. Precaution is necessary to avoid road accidents. These measures will go a long way in reducing road accidents,” he said. Agarwal added people approaching highways from the link route should look at both sides of the road to prevent any untoward incident. “Use of indicator is also important,” he said. According to the advisory, fog lights should be used and speed limit of vehicles maintained. “Vehicles should be driven keeping in view the white stripes along the divider on the roads as a guide. People should also avoid using cellphones and music systems while driving. Overloading and speeding should be avoided,” it said. As per the transport department, 1,884 people had died in road accidents across the state in 2019 owing to poor visibility caused by dense fog and haze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/follow-rules-and-drive-safe-transport-dept-tells-motorists/articleshow/79585066.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 6, 2020||Patna||More to get benefit of central schemes in Gaya||GAYA: By the end of 2021, a big population of the district is expected to get the benefit of the central government welfare schemes. Gaya is among the 40 districts across the country selected under the Targeted Financial Inclusion Intervention Programme (TFIIP). Under the programme, there is a target to connect more and more people so that they get the benefit of Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY), Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY), Atal Pension Yojana (APY), opening of CASA (current account/savings account), Aadhar authentication to facilitate direct benefit transfer (DBT) into the account of beneficiary and making available banking services at village and gram panchayat level by opening branch, customer service point (CSP) or kiosk service. PMJJBY is the government-backed yearly life insurance scheme where the subscriber gets annual life insurance coverage of Rs 2 lakh on payment of premium of just Rs 330 per annum. In PMSBY, accidental death coverage of Rs 2 lakh is provided. In this scheme, Rs 1 lakh is provided in case of permanent disability due to an accident. Anyone operating a savings account in a nationalised bank can avail benefit of this scheme for just Rs 12 per annum. First phase of the programme had started in the district in April, which ended in September. Now, the second phase is going on, which will end in September next year. In the first phase, 75℅ of the fixed target has been achieved. The target has been fixed on every one lakh population. The target is achieved with active involvement of the nationalised banks. In Gaya, Union Bank has been made the nodal bank for the TFIIP. Punjab National Bank (PNB) lead district manager (LDM) Yashwant Shankar said, “By November this year, 7968 people of every one lakh population have been benefited from PMJJBY followed by PMSBY 25,694 and APY 2,296. At the same time, 85,146 current accounts/savings accounts have been opened under the programme”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/more-to-get-benefit-of-central-schemes-in-gaya/articleshow/79585088.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Patna||2 district toppers feted by Sainik School Nalanda||PATNA: At a virtual felicitation ceremony organized on Saturday, Sainik School Nalanda honoured cadets Vivek Kumar (Class X) and Shubham Kumar (Class XII) for their outstanding performance in the 2019-2020 board exams. While Vivek, who will participate in the Delhi Republic Day parade next year, scored 98.2%, Shubham got 96%. School principal Col Tamojeet Biswas congratulated the cadets, both district toppers, and presented a cash incentive of Rs 5,000 each to them. “The hard work of teachers and cadets cannot be equated with money, but this small incentive is meant to recognize their efforts,” Biswas said and urged the other cadets to take inspiration from the meritorious students and work harder. He also pointed out that it was the “moral responsibility of the cadets to excel in life and serve society”. Vice-principal Wing Commander P S Gujral, teachers, cadets of classes X, XI and XII, and their parents attended the online felicitation ceremony. Of the 82 Class X students, 66 scored 90% or more in the board examinations. On the other hand, 26 of the 68 Class XII students got more than 90% marks. Meanwhile, Sainik School Nalanda has been awarded merit certificate by the Ministry of Defence for the outstanding performance of its cadets in the board exams conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education. Besides, 58 students of the school have qualified for the National Defence Academy (written) examination in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-district-toppers-feted-by-sainik-school-nalanda/articleshow/79586116.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||In cliffhanger GHMC poll, many win by a whisker||HYDERABAD: In a closely fought contest between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls, the victory margin in 15 per cent of civic divisions was very narrow - of less than 1,000 votes. Of the 150 divisions, 23 candidates emerged victorious with narrow margins and in the fiercely contested polls, the TRS lost 14 seats to the BJP with less than 1,000-vote margin and likewise, the BJP lost seven to the ruling party. For instance, BJP candidate Lachi Reddy won the BN Reddy Nagar division by just 32 votes against the TRS candidate Laxmi Prasanna. Similarly, TRS candidate Jithendranath defeated BJP candidate S Naresh in Macha Bolarum with a narrow margin of 34 votes. The AIMIM, which swept the Old City, lost its prestigious Jambagh division to BJP candidate Rakesh Jaiswal with a margin of 180 votes and Congress lost Gajularamaram to the TRS by 436 votes. TRS working president KT Rama Rao on Friday admitted that they lost some divisions narrowly to BJP. The election results data revealed that TRS had lost BN Reddy Nagar, Malkajgiri, Adikmet, Hasthinapur, Vinayaknagar, Ramgopalpet, Moosapet, Jubilee Hills, Mangalhat, Saidabad, Ramnagar, Ramanthapur, Vanasthalipuram and Moulali by less than 1,000 votes. Similarly, BJP lost Khairatabad, Kukatpally, Bansilalpet, Jagadigirigutta, Macha Bolarum, Boudhanagar and Mettuguda by low margins. “The BJP would have won another half a dozen seats in places like Kukatpally and Serilingampally assembly constituencies as there were some errors in the selection of candidates,” a senior leader of the party said. GHMC election authorities said in many places the margins were 4,000-5,000 votes, while in the Old City where AIMIM secured 44 seats, the victory margins in many divisions were around 10,000 votes. AIMIM candidate from Pathergatti, Syed Sohail Quadri secured the highest majority of 18,909 votes against the TRS candidate Akhtar Mohinuddin. Another Majlis candidate from Nalanagar, Mohd Naseeruddin, defeated TRS candidate Shaik Azar by 18,864 votes. In many constituencies, the AIMIM candidates secured 80% to 90% of the polled votes. In municipal wards such as Golconda, Falaknuma, Nawab Saheb Kunta, Riyasathnagar, Chandrayangutta and Kanchanbagh, AIMIM candidates emerged victorious with over 16,000-vote majority. Interestingly, in the Old City earlier, TRS and Congress, which had secured second place in many divisions, this time ceded the position to BJP, indicating that the party is making inroads into the southern parts of the city. This was visible in some divisions such as Mallepally, Asifnagar, Mehdipatnam, Puranapul, Moghalpura, Akbarbagh and Azampura, where the AIMIM won with less than 5,000 to 6,000 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-cliffhanger-ghmc-poll-many-win-by-a-whisker/articleshow/79586940.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 6, 2020||Patna||Two Motihari DTO staff held on graft charges||PATNA: Two employees of the Motihari district transport office (DTO) were arrested by a team of the Vigilance Investigation Bureau for allegedly accepting Rs 39,000 as bribe in lieu of reassessment of vehicles. Acting on two separate complaints lodged with the Patna office of the bureau, a nine-member team carried out an operation on the premises of the DTO and caught Rajendra Singh and Khursheed Alam. The former is a clerk and the latter a programmer. DSP (vigilance) Sarvesh Kumar, who was leading the team, said the two employees were being interrogated. Sources said a sum of Rs 9,000 was seized from Singh’s pocket and Rs 30,000 was recovered from Alam’s possession. Earlier, Dhruv Narain Mishra and Gaurav Pandey, both residents of Areraj in East Champaran district, had lodged complaints against the two employees last week During preliminary investigation, the complaints were found to be true.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-motihari-dto-staff-held-on-graft-charges/articleshow/79585106.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP to embrace poll process measures for vaccine rollout||LUCKNOW: The state government is busy in brainstorming for preparations to rollout Covid-19 vaccination once the vaccine arrives after getting safety nod, and has directed health officials to formulate district-wise micro plans to ensure its success. Health department sources said the government is preparing to adopt the strategies and measures taken during the electoral process to provide the vaccine to people as per prescribed safety standards. “The draft micro plan proposes an election booth-like set up for Covid-19 vaccination centres,” said an officer in the state health department. The decision has been taken as per the recommendations of Niti Aayog in a meeting presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi which was attended by top brass from all states, including UP. The election model has been recommended for mobilization purpose also. “The plan is to engage other departments also, and not just health department,” said a source in the health ministry. “Since the vaccine is to be given in a phased manner, and it is also important to track any adverse events after inoculation, the vaccination has to operated from a permanent set up. A well-equipped state facility can be used as health centre, the way primary schools are used during election,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-embrace-poll-processmeasures-for-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/79587109.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 6, 2020||Agra||Thousands stuck in 20km-long jam on NH2 as Haryana blocks UP border due to farmers’ stir||AGRA: Thousands of vehicles, including trucks and buses, and commuters remained stranded on the Delhi-Agra NH-2 for almost 20 hours since Friday night, after Haryana Police blocked its border with UP at Mathura’s Kotwan due to farmers’ protest in Palwal and Hodal. The border was opened on Saturday evening, giving respite to the stranded commuters. Mathura superintendent of police (rural) Shrish Chandra told TOI that the vehicles remained mainly stranded on three roads to Haryana since Friday night. “Though we had diverted many vehicles to Yamuna Expressway to clear the traffic, it smoothened only after Haryana Police opened the border in the evening,” he said. A group of farmers staged protest at Maant toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway after being stopped by the police from heading to Delhi. They blocked the toll gate for hours. Police have been closing routes on national highways, as protesting farmers continued to camp on roads demanding withdrawal of the Centre’s new farm laws and stayed put at the national capital’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Satyendra Singh, a truck driver going from Mathura refinery to Bhatinda, said that he had been stuck in the traffic since 8 pm on Friday night. “Traffic has backed up for several kilometres and I don’t know when we would be able to move from here,” he said. “I support the farmers but being stranded on a highway is an ordeal for people like us, who have no option except to wait for hours for traffic to clear,” he said. Mahesh Goswami, who has a wedding in the family and was headed to Delhi to extend the invitation to friends and family, said he has been waiting on NH-2 for the past three hours. “There was no announcement about sealing of the border. Now, we are stuck here as the jam is about 20 kilometres long,” Goswami said, adding that he supports farmers' agitation but “the common man should not be made to suffer due to such protests”. Another commuter, Subodh Kumar, who was travelling from Agra to Delhi to visit a patient in the national capital, said that the government should resolve the issue with the farmers at the earliest and save the “anna data” (the food growers). Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said that the border was opened after they requested the Haryana Police to clear the traffic "as many trucks carrying perishable items were stranded in the jam".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/thousands-stuck-in-20km-long-jam-on-nh2-as-hry-blocks-up-border-due-to-farmers-stir/articleshow/79584571.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 6, 2020||Allahabad||AU VC effects 1st administrative reshuffle of several departments||PRAYAGRAJ: In her first major rejig after taking over as the new vice-chancellor of the Allahabad University, Prof Sangita Srivastava has restructured the administrative responsibilities of faculty members in various sections. “There are several challenges confronting the AU, following which the varsity scored low in national ranking... The administrative reshuffle is an attempt to regain the lost glory of the institution,” said Prof Srivastava. In one such major reshuffle at the teachers’ recruitment cell, Prof Dhananjay Yadav of the department of education has been made the director, faculty recruitment cell (FRC), replacing Prof J N Tripathi of the department of earth and planetary science. Likewise, Prof Ashish Saxena of the sociology department has been appointed as deputy director, FRC, in place of Prakash Kumar Singh, department of earth and planetary science. Prof Syed Ibrahim Rizvi of the biochemistry department is the new dean (research and development). He took over the charge from Prof AK Rai of the physics department. Prof Pankaj Kumar, department of political science, has been appointed as dean (college development council) in place of Prof Prashant Agrawal of the department of defence and strategic studies, said AU (PRO) Shailendra Mishra. Mishra said Prof JA Ansari of the department of electronics and communication has been made the director of UGC-HR development centre in place of Prof Arun Kumar of the department of commerce and business administration. Prof Harsh Kumar of the department of ancient history has been appointed as coordinator of the Centre of Film and Theatre and head of the department of journalism and mass communication, replacing Prof Dhananjay Yadav of the education department. Yadav would take over as the new director FRC on Monday. In another administrative change, Prof Heramb Chaturvedui, department of medieval and modern history, has been appointed as the director of the Institute of Gandhian Thought and Peace Studies, replacing Prof Yogeshwar Tiwari. Prof NB Singh of the botany department has been reappointed as garden-charge of the varsity. The new VC has also reconstituted the ICT cell of AU by appointing Prof Suneet Dwivedi of KBCAOS as its chairman and making Ashish Khare and Richa Mishra of the department of electronics and communication as its members and Tanveer Jahan Siddiqui of the same department as its convenor. Likewise, Sonal Shankar of the department of Law has been made in charge of AU’s legal cell along with Prof Rakesh Khanna (retd) as advisor to the legal cell. Peeush Kumar, law officer of the varsity, will now coordinate works in the legal cell in consultation with Sonal Shankar and Prof Rakesh Khanna (retd). As part of the reshuffle of joint and assistant registrar, joint registrar Sanjay Upadhyay has been transferred from the administration section to examination section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-vc-effects-1st-administrative-reshuffle-of-several-departments/articleshow/79585283.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chennai||Kutcheri comes home to paati||CHENNAI: Just a moment with 78-year-old Susheela Pathy, and her incessant curiosity for the finer things in life would rub off on you. "Can I listen to a Sanjay Subrahmanyan concert on my iPad and phone at once," she asks. "Can I connect my JBL to multiple devices and share my playlist with another person," she wants to know. Working round-the-clock for Susheela paati and a hundred other grand old rasikas like her whose zest for the arts cannot be curtailed by any force in the world — leave alone a pandemic — is a spirited young team of tech-savvy assistants and friends at Prayojana. The city-based elderly care centre, which helps seniors living by themselves with their bank chores, grocery shopping and medical needs through the year, has now taken it upon itself to ensure they don’t miss out on any Margazhi kutcheri due to technological barriers. Since most of the season’s events have gone online following the pandemic, the team at Prayojana has created an end-to-end service that starts with handing elderly clients a curated list of concerts, and making online payments, to getting e-invites and links to their inboxes, ensuring they’re able to navigate their way to the live-stream. "In the previous years, we would pick sabhas with senior-friendly features such as exit gates that are closer to the seats, shorter distance from the parking lot and drive seniors down for concerts. This year, our work is an extension of this goal — that our senior clients must stay active and pursue their interests without a worry," says Venkat Krishnan, co-founder and MD at Prayojana, which has tied up with Madrasana to show their recorded concerts this year. Sulochana Kannan, a nonagenarian who has been living at her sister-in-law’s place since Covid-19 struck, is looking forward to the season’s concerts as a way to end what has been a gruelling year. "I have a list of artists — Sudha Raghunathan, Trichur Brothers and Abhishek Raghuram — who I listen to every year. This year, I plan to watch their shows on TV, with help from Prayojana. The December Season has been an important part of my life and will be more so this year," she says. As this is the first time the kutcheri format has gone digital, Venkat and his team plan to have a dry run ahead of every show. "We are working out ways to render concerts on smart TVs or with the help of casting devices. If a client is accessing kutcheris on their tablets or mobile phones, we’re getting them wireless speakers to ensure the sound is not compromised on," he says. Prayojana’s curated list of concerts will also be available on its website for non-member seniors to choose from and reach out to them. Since most of the seniors the organisation caters to live by themselves in the city, attending a concert or harikatha recital is often highly therapeutic to their mental well-being. "My 92-year-old uncle was a regular to season concerts until my aunt passed away four years ago. But Prayojana’s team helped him attend four concerts last year, handholding him through the whole journey. It absolutely made his day," says Sunandhini Pattabhiraman, a music therapist based out of Kuala Lumpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kutcheri-comes-home-to-paati/articleshow/79585825.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
December 6, 2020||Patna||JD(U), BJP accuse Tejashwi Yadav of violating Covid norms||PATNA: Ruling allies JD(U) and BJP on Saturday slammed the leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Congress leaders for holding a dharna against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre and also for criticising CM Nitish Kumar over his agriculture policies. State JD(U) chief spokesman and former MLC Sanjay Singh said Tejashwi made the land of Mahatma Gandhi “impure” by sitting on a dharna on it and he should publicly apologise for it. He added Tejashwi also violated the law by holding dharna there when the with the permission of the administration. “Tejashwi violated the social distancing norms by holding the dharna,” Singh said, adding Tejashwi also insulted RJD state president Jagadanand Singh by making him sit near his feet. Although the Centre brought the law to abolish the Agriculture Produce Market Committee Act this year, CM Nitish Kumar had done it in 2006 to protect the farmers from the exploitation by the Bazar Samitis, Singh said. “The CM also freed the farmers from the hold of the market committees by ensuring that they could sell their farm produce anywhere and to anyone,” he added. BJP vice-president Rajib Ranjan and Kisan Morcha president Saroj Ranjan Patel said the opposition parties were doing politics on the issues facing farmers to regain their lost ground. “The Centre has been holding talks with the representatives of the farmers and it is also committed to providing the facility of MSP for the benefit of the farmers,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-bjp-accuse-tejas-of-violating-covid-norms/articleshow/79585052.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Patna||Mercury to take a dive from Dec 9||PATNA: City residents should brace for a further plunge in temperature from December 9 owing to the winds blowing in from snowfall-laden Himalayan region in the north, warned the weathermen. Patna recorded a minimum temperature of 12.4 degrees C on Saturday. The weathermen said snowfall in the Himalayan foothills in north India over the past few days is likely to lead to cold and dry westerly winds blowing in the northern plains and adjoining eastern states, including Bihar. “As per satellite images, a western disturbance led to rain and snowfall in the Himalayan region in the northern states, and it has moved ahead. It will soon lead to north-westerly winds blowing in Bihar, which will play a significant role in bringing down temperature in the state from December 9 onwards,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at Patna meteorological centre. The western disturbances are low-pressure area or extratropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and the Caspian Sea, which cause snow and winter rainfalls in the northwestern Indian subcontinent. The cold winds from the snowfall-laden region move towards northern plains, leading to a plunge in temperature. However, very few western disturbances reached eastern states last year, and their impact on the weather was also not significant. Weathermen, however, have claimed that this time more western disturbances expected to affect weather in the region, which will lead to colder winter season over the next two months. As far as temperature reading on Saturday is concerned, the minimum temperature of Patna (12.4 degrees C) on Saturday was a notch higher than the corresponding normal for the day. Gaya in south Bihar was the coldest place on Saturday morning with the minimum temperature at 10 degrees C. “Not much drop has been witnessed in minimum temperature in Bihar in the past few days. It has been mostly recorded either at corresponding normal or one or two notches above the respective normal,” Patel said. Meteorologists attributed the comparatively higher minimum temperature to mist or fog cover, which is retaining the radiation from the earth’s surface in the lower level of atmosphere. However, the same mist or fog is obstructing the solar rays in reaching the lower level of the atmosphere, leading to slightly lower maximum temperature. The weathermen further claimed that a cyclonic circulation is prevailing over east Uttar Pradesh and adjoining Bihar. “The moisture from the cyclonic circulation and calm winds is retaining the particulate matter in the lower level of the atmosphere, which creates a layer of mist. Weather conditions are likely to remain the same along with fog and mist in morning hours,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mercury-to-take-a-dive-from-dec-9/articleshow/79585027.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 6, 2020||Patna||GA allies led by RJD hold dharna to back farmers’ stir||PATNA: The leaders of the RJD-led Grand Alliance partners in the state sat on a dharna in Patna and also blocked roads at all district headquarters in the state to express solidarity with the farmers agitating in Delhi against the three farm laws passed by the Centre, besides demanding assured purchase of their agriculture produce at the minimum support price (MSP) rates. The leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, called the talks being held by the Centre with the representatives of farmers as a “drama”, adding the Centre should have held consultations with the farmers before getting the farm bills passed through Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. “The farm laws enacted by the Centre are unilateral since no consultations and exchange of views, opinions and farmers’ concerns were made before introducing the Bills for passage in the two Houses,” Tejashwi said. He added that the Centre, after privatizing the public sector undertakings, has now decided to hand over the farm sector to the private houses by way of contract farming with no guarantee of the purchase of the farm produce at the MSP rates. “If the three farm laws are really good and also in the interest of the farmers, then why doesn’t the Centre want to ensure that the farm produce is purchased from the farmers at the MSP rates?” Tejashwi asked, adding the Centre has been following anti-farmer and anti-labour policies for the last six years and the Nitish Kumar government in the state for the last 15 years. Incidentally, a confusion prevailed outside Gandhi Maidan on Saturday morning, when leaders and workers of RJD, Congress, CPI and CPM arrived at the Gate Number 4 to enter Gandhi Maidan and sit on dharna in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi inside the maidan. However, the Patna district administration had not permitted it. Tejashwi had on Friday announced the dharna programme. The CPI(ML) leaders did not participate in the Patna dharna, as they were not informed about it, it is learnt. Among the participants in the dharna programme who addressed the meet were Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha, Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma, CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey and its secretariat committee member Ram Babu Kumar, and senior CPM functionaries. That apart, the CPI(ML) organized road blockades for a couple of hours in the morning across the state, as the reports reaching here from Ara and Madhubani said. At Ara, the CPI(ML) workers blocked the Ara-Patna bypass road near the bus stand for two hours from 8 am to 10 am, as the party’s district secretary Dhiraj Pritam told this newspaper. The Party’s Tarari MLA Sudama Prasad also addressed the meeting. Similarly, the road was also blocked at Madhubani by the members of the CPI(ML), All India Kisan Mahasabha and Khet Gramin Majdoor Sangh. Meanwhile, the CPI(ML), CPI, CPM, Forward Bloc and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) state secretaries on Saturday decided to actively support the Bharat bandh call for December 8 given by the core group of the agitating farmers in Delhi. (With inputs from Praveen in Ara and C S Jha ‘Azad’ in Saharsa)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ga-allies-led-by-rjd-hold-dharna-to-back-farmers-stir/articleshow/79585040.cms||Abhay Singh
December 6, 2020||Patna||JPU takes steps to get NAAC accreditation||CHHAPRA: In a bid to get accreditation from National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), Chhapra-based J P University has decided to shift postgraduate (PG) departments to its own campus. After inception in 1992, the 16 PG departments of J P University were attached with local Rajendra College. However, after inauguration of some administrative and other buildings in 2008, some PG departments were shifted to its campus. Still, eight PG departments are located in Rajendra College and one, home science, on J P Mahila College campus. Many colleges under the university have obtained NAAC accreditation, but the university is yet to get it. “Steps have been taken to centralise the PG departments of the university on its campus to get NAAC accreditation. This will help students and teachers get advantage of central library, which is located on the university campus,” JPU vice-chancellor Faruque Ali said. University’s PRO Harishchandra said shifting of the departments would be completed by the end of December and the students could avail this facility from January 2021. He said as per direction of the VC, arrangement has been made to locate the departments faculty-wise in different buildings.  “For getting accreditation from NAAC, centralised location of PG departments is necessary,” Harischandra said, adding unless these formalities are completed the university will not get financial facilities from the UGC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jpu-takes-steps-to-get-naac-accreditation/articleshow/79586213.cms||H K Verma
December 6, 2020||Patna||Nalanda tourism industry wobbles||RAJGIR: The Covid-19 pandemic has hit hard the tourism industry in Nalanda, bringing the operation of several hotels, restaurants and shops to a grinding halt. Consequently, thousands of families have been pushed to the brink of starvation. Although popular monuments were thrown open to visitors in October and November, they have been witnessing poor footfalls. Junior conservation assistant T N Behra attributes the situation to the pandemic and non-operational long distance trains. “Over 8,900 people visited Nalanda in November, which is only 13% of the footfalls recorded during the same period in 2019. Altogether 69,161 domestic and foreign tourists had come here in November last year,” Behra told this newspaper on Saturday. With no customers, small traders have suffered a huge hit. The owner of an artefact shop in Nalanda, Sugreev Kumar, said he was finding it difficult to make ends meet. “The situation is so critical that I had to stop my children from going to school,” Sugreev rued. Another shopowner, Roshan Kumar, pointed out that the footfall of domestic and foreign tourists had increased substantially after the Nalanda Mahavihara entered the UNESCO’s World Heritage list in 2016. “However, the Covid-19 pandemic completely washed out our business that dipped to 10% in November,” he added. Hotelier Roshan Kumar claimed that the pandemic “forced me to shut down one of my five hotels”. “I am not earning enough to pay salaries to my staff or clear electricity bills,” he said. Echoing similar views, Fukhruddin, a restaurateur, said his business had witnessed a sharp decline. Even traders selling religious items have felt the Covid impact. Pintu Upadhyay, a priest at Rajgir’s Brahma Kund that has had no visitors since March, asserted, “The livelihood of nearly 300 families of priests depends completely on the donations they get from devotees. Hence, they are on the verge of starvation.” Pintu also alleged that the government had done nothing to help the priests during the pandemic. A ‘mujabir’ at the Makhdum Kund, Shakeel Ahmad, said the footfall of devotees had declined drastically. Meanwhile, social activist Navin Kumar pointed out that the pandemic had slowed down the ongoing developmental projects in Rajgir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nalanda-tourism-industry-wobbles/articleshow/79585094.cms||Farrukh Nadim
December 6, 2020||Patna||Toxic haze chokes Patna as AQI enters ‘severe’ zone||PATNA: A noxious haze hung over Patna on Saturday as its air turned toxic for the second consecutive day. The city’s air quality index (AQI) stood at 402 in the afternoon, which falls in the ‘severe’ category. According to the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB), the 24-hour average concentrations of PM2.5 and PM10 touched 259 μg/m3 and 402 μg/m3 respectively at many locations. Experts attributed the rise in pollution levels to factors like increased traffic movement and a dip in temperature. BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh pointed out a combination of pollution due to vehicular emission and dust particles as well as calm winds had deteriorated the air quality significantly. “The ongoing marriage season has resulted in increased vehicular movement and traffic congestion. These, in turn, are degrading the air quality. People also burst crackers during weddings, thereby increasing the pollution levels,” Ghosh said, adding that construction activities also deteriorated the air quality. Central University of South Bihar professor Pradhan Parth Sarthi told this newspaper that geographical factors adversely affected the AQI. “The pollution levels shoot up during the daytime due to calm winds, leading to accumulation of pollutants. This situation is likely to be witnessed throughout the winter season,” he said. An AQI of 0-50 is considered ‘good’, 51-100 ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’, and 401-500 ‘severe’. Pollution of the ‘severe’ category can affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing diseases. The air quality early warning system of the Ministry of Earth Sciences has predicted that Patna’s pollution levels will witness a gradual decline on Sunday and Monday due to favourable meteorological conditions. The AQI level, however, is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/toxic-haze-chokes-city-as-aqi-enters-severe-zone/articleshow/79585000.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 6, 2020||Goa||This tourist season, dolphin sighting trips off Sinquerim down by 80%||Calangute: During peak tourist season, the Sinquerim jetty usually bustles with activity, with visitors lining up for boat trips that promise a glimpse of dolphins. However, the scene is stark this year due to the pandemic. The jetty wears a deserted look, and except for some weekends, the daily boat trips are largely down by at least 80%. The 45-minute dolphin spotting boat trips are hugely popular with domestic tourists who would flock to the jetty located near Fort Aguada. On Saturday, a few busloads of tourists who are in Goa on a company sponsored vacation, arrived for boat rides, boat owner Bautist Simoes said. But such days are now rare, he added. “We commenced the boat rides in October, but business is yet to pick up. Normally, there would be more than 100 trips on an average every day. But due to the pandemic, we are seeing around 20-30 boat trips a day. One boat can only make around 10 trips in a month now,” Vincent Fernandes, a boat owner from Candolim told TOI. There are around 180 boats operating from the jetty. “Earlier we would seat 12-14 passengers in one boat, but due to the Covid standard operating procedures, we are only allowed 10 passengers in a boat. But the actual number of passengers per trip these days is around five because there are hardly any tourists,” Fernandes said. Boat owners said they get small family groups of three-four people and couples. “When there are fewer passengers, we wait for around 10-15 minutes to see if any more tourists are coming, but we cannot keep the passengers waiting too long in the boats, so we have to start the trip even if the boat is not up to capacity. We are helpless,” Fernandes said. “The situation is grim due to the pandemic. It’s become difficult to survive and pay the boat operators,” he said. However, dolphin sightings have been good these days due to diminished activities along this coast, the boat operators said. “The best time to spot dolphins is in the morning when they come in large groups to feed. Sightings are fewer in the evenings when they’ve finished feeding,” Sidney Silveira, a boat owner said. “They’re also difficult to spot during low tide,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-tourist-season-dolphin-sighting-trips-off-sinquerim-down-by-80/articleshow/79586979.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
December 6, 2020||India||Justin Trudeau backing farmers but Canada opposes MSP at WTO||NEW DELHI: India has hit out at Canada for its stance against Indian farmers at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and said the issue of farmers’ protests was being used for political expediency by Canada. Sources pointed out that Canada is one of the most strident critics of India’s Minimum Support Price (MSP) and other agriculture policies at the WTO, and often questions India’s domestic agriculture measures that are meant to provide food and livelihood security to the country’s large agrarian population. “The recent comments by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau regarding the on-going farmers’ protests in India are not just unwarranted and ill-informed but also at odds with Canada’s aggressive posture at the WTO towards India’s agricultural support to its farmers,” a source said. Read AlsoExplained: Why farmers fear losing MSP under new lawsWith farmer unions protesting against the new agricultural law, we look at why there are concerns over issues like MSP.Developing countries, including India, have been proponents for reforming the WTO’s Agreement on Agriculture (AoA) by eliminating the existing distortions. One of the main demands has been the elimination of the most trade-distorting form of subsidies known as FBT-AMS subsidies, which are available to only 32 out of the 164 members of the WTO. However, due to opposition by the beneficiaries of FBT-AMS entitlements, WTO members have failed to reach consensus on eliminating the existing imbalances in the AoA. Source said that in a worrying development in recent years,there has been a narrative-push by some WTO members (notably the Cairns Group including Canada as well as the United States and European Union) which attempts to pin the blame for the growth in global levels of trade-distorting domestic support in agriculture on large developing countries such as China, India and Indonesia. Farmers protest: Live updatesSources said the recent farm legislations enacted by India would have actually served to allay many of the concerns raised by Canada and other members regarding India’s agriculture policies. “In view of this, it is surprising to note that Canada is making unwarranted statements supporting domestic protests in India against these farm Acts. The duplicity in the stand taken by Canada at the World Trade Organisation, and the position voiced by its leaders recently is a clear indication that this issue is being used for reasons of political expediency by Canada,” said the source. Read AlsoGovernment seeks time till Wednesday for concrete proposals; Tuesday bandh to go aheadSignalling a hard stance, some farm leaders held placards with “Yes or No” written on them at the discussions with agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and railway &amp; consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal. Tomar struck a conciliatory note after the meeting, saying the government is committed toSources said the nature and content of the questions posed by Canada to India regarding India’s agriculture policies, and the overall narrative that it pushes in agriculture negotiations at the WTO, are evidence of the fact that Canada has scarce interest in the genuine well-being of Indian farmers and agriculture producers. On the contrary, Canada, along with other agriculture exporters seeks to further restrict the policy space available to countries like India to support their domestic farmers, in the interest of boosting their own potential exports to India, the sources pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/justin-trudeau-backing-farmers-but-canada-opposes-msp-at-wto/articleshow/79587505.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Delhi||27 industrial areas in Delhi to get a makeover push||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has planned to redevelop and maintain ageing industrial areas crying for better infrastructure so that they become modern and ready for challenges of economic growth. Delhi has 29 industrial areas and most are struggling with poor infrastructure. Twenty- seven such areas will be developed on a public-private partnership basis and the private agency will maintain them for a charge from the individual units. A redevelopment project has been prepared for the purpose. Mohan Cooperative Industrial Estate, Badli Industrial Area and several other industrial areas have poor roads, drainage system and terrible maintenance. Other basic facilities are not available in several parts of these areas. An industrialist whose unit is located in Badli, said that it was the oldest industrial area in Delhi but badly kept. “Property tax is collected by municipal corporation and when we demand improvement in the basic facilities, civic officials say that the industrial area has been handed over to Delhi State Industrial Development Corporation. DSIDC says that the area is still under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporation,” added the industrialist. Delhi’s industrial areas include those located in Narela, Bawana, Rani Khera, Bapraula, Jhilmil, Patparganj, Wazirpur, Rohtak Road, Mangolpuri, Rani Jhasi Road, Mayapuri, Tilak Nagar, Najafgarh Road among others. Many of them were created decades ago and together house thousands of small factories producing myriad of products. Bawana industrial area alone has over 16,000 industrial units. Rajiv Goel from Bawana Industrial Area said that the redevelopment work started in the area on a pilot basis in 2012 on public-private partnership model and was successful. The industrial units are required to pay Rs 14 per square metre for maintenance by the private agency. The new plan for redevelopment/upgradation does not cover Bawana and Narela. “All the rest of the industrial areas located in the city will be covered under this project, which envisages to provide better basic infrastructure, including roads, sanitation, lights, sewer lines, water supply and horticulture work,” said a DSIDC official. DSIDC has floated a tender inviting expression of interest to engage professional and experienced agencies for the purpose of upgradation, redevelopment, operation and maintenance of existing industrial areas in the capital. Brijesh Goyal, convener of Chamber of Trade and Industry, said the infrastructure in industrial areas maintained by the municipal corporations were in the worst shape while those under DSIDC were better but many of them needed improvement. “City’s industrialists who had a meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal recently had demanded better infrastructure in the industrial areas and on the instructions of the chief minister, the project has been planned,” Goyal added. Municipal corporations, Delhi Development Authority and DSIDC together run the industrial areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/27-industrial-areas-to-get-a-makeover-push/articleshow/79586973.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||1.2kg meth worth Rs 1cr seized from airport||Coimbatore: Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel seized 1.2kg of methamphetamine worth Rs 1 crore in international market from a Saudi-bound passenger at the Coimbatore International Airport on Saturday morning. CISF identified the passenger as K Nagarathinam, 44, of Thuvakudi in Trichy. “Immediately after entering the airport building, he called some CISF personnel and told them that his friends Ali Bhai and Arul of Trichy had forced him to take a suitcase to Saudi Arabia. The personnel scanned the suitcase and found a substance that resembled rock salt concealed in the bottom of the suitcase. They handed it over to the customs officials, who tested it and confirmed that it was methamphetamine, a highly addictive stimulant that affects the central nervous system,” an official said. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Nagarathinam was working as a driver in Saudi Arabia. He had returned to his hometown after his wife and daughter met with an accident in February. He could not go back due to the pandemic lockdown. After his employer asked him to return, Nagarathinam decided to travel to Sharjah on December 5. “Ali Bhai and Arul offered to bear his travel expense. Nagarathinam and family reached Coimbatore on Friday evening and stayed in a hotel. When he arrived at the airport on Saturday morning, Ali Bhai and Arul met him at the gate and handed over a suitcase. When Nagarathinam refused to take it, they forced him and said that they would collect it from him after two days,” the official said. CISF detained Nagarathinam and later handed him over to Peelamedu police inspector T Jothi. Inquiries revealed that Nagarathinam is innocent, police sources said. The Peelamedu police handed over the case to NIB-CID, who have formed a special team to nab Ali Bhai and Arul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/1-2kg-meth-worth-rs-1cr-seized-from-airport/articleshow/79585909.cms||A Subburaj
December 6, 2020||Agra||Farmers’ groups signal ‘mass movement’ to borders of Delhi-NCR from Agra region||AGRA: Several farmers' organisations have directed its cadre in the Agra region to be prepared for a "mass movement" towards Delhi-NCR in the coming days. Around 100 leaders of farmers' groups are already camping at the UP gate on Delhi-Ghaziabad border for the past week. Following directives of top leadership to completely seal the Delhi borders from all its sides, the local cadre in large numbers are gearing up to reach the UP gate in the next three days. Arrangement of tractors, woollen blankets and at least 60 days of ration are being made. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has assigned targets to its district presidents of Agra region for mobilising young farmers to the Delhi border. Over 200 tractors from districts of Agra region are required to report at the UP gate in the next two days. The farmers organisations are also planning a massive show of strength on December 8 - the day of the Bharat Bandh. Besides the Delhi borders, protests are being planned across the Agra region. On Saturday, BKU's Agra district president, Rajveer Lawaniya, said, “We are going to strengthen the stir against the three farm laws. Around 5,000 BKU workers and young farmers from Agra region will be reaching with 200 tractors and essential supplies to the UP gate. All the entry points to Delhi will be blocked in the next two days. The protest will continue till the government gives our rights back." Shyam Singh Chahar, a farmer leader, said, “The Centre is unable to understand us. Time has come to show the real strength of the farmers. Mass movement of farmers from Agra region to Delhi borders will take place in next one week. We are making the necessary arrangements in this regard. Delhi will be completely blocked from all its sides."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-groups-signal-mass-movement-to-borders-of-delhi-ncr-from-agra-region/articleshow/79584589.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Poll marker row: Telangana HC bench refuses to interfere in single judge order||HYDERABAD: A division bench of Telangana high court on Saturday refused to interfere in the order of a single judge who directed the election officials to keep aside all the ballot papers with wrong stamp marks. Making it clear that the State Election Commission (SEC) had failed to double-check before distributing stamp sticks to voters, the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said the SEC cannot talk about its insusceptibility to judicial intervention and asked the single judge to take up the matter on Dec 7 when it comes up for hearing. “This is all we can do now. You made a mess of the stamping issue. You did not double-check. You did not train your staff properly. Now, you cannot complain because even the single judge did not stall the counting. His order impacted only Neredmet ward where the disputed votes are 544 and the margin between the top two contenders is 504,” the bench said addressing SEC counsel G Vidya Sagar. The bench further said the result was not declared as per the order of the single judge. “There is nothing unfair here. Do not take any hyper technical view of the matter,” the bench said. The right mark is a swastika and the SEC staff distributed different stamps to some polling booths where the the polled votes were displaying other mark on the ballot papers and not the swastika. Though the SEC issued a late night circular on Dec 3 asking all the counting officials to treat all such votes with different marks too as valid, two citizens — K Anthony Reddy and K Surender — belonging to the BJP filed an urgent plea on the morning of Dec 4, the counting day, seeking a judicial probe into this midnight circular. Justice A Abhishek Reddy, who heard the matter on Friday, suspended the SEC circular and asked the counting officials not to declare the result in those wards where the disputed votes with different marks were more than the margin between the top two candidates. The judge directed the SEC to file a counter within three days and posted the case to Dec 7. The SEC then filed an appeal against this order saying that the single judge order was interfering with the autonomy of the commission. “The only legal recourse available to the aggrieved parties is to approach an election tribunal after the poll was over and not during the middle of the election process,” Vidya Sagar said. Arguing that courts cannot interfere after the commencement of the poll process, he said the SEC is empowered to devise its own ways of functioning to ensure a free and fair poll, citing the provisions of the Constitution and the GHMC Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-marker-row-hc-bench-refuses-to-interfere-in-single-judge-order/articleshow/79586968.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Agra||BJP, Hindu Mahasabha warn of protest if women kidnapped by other community men not rescued||AGRA: BJP and Hindu Mahasabha members have threatened to stage protests at two police stations in Aligarh, if two women — including a minor girl — allegedly kidnapped by men from other community are not rescued within 48 hours. BJP former mayor Shakuntala Bharti threatened to hold a protest at Sasni Gate police station in Aligarh on Sunday, if the minor girl allegedly kidnapped by a boy from other community was not rescued within 24 hours. On Friday, however, Hindu Mahasabha spokesperson Ashok Pandey had threatened to stage a protest at Akrabad police station if the kidnapped woman was not traced till Monday. SP (crime) Arvind Kumar said police were probing the matter and the accused would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-hindu-mahasabha-warn-of-protest-if-women-kidnapped-by-other-community-men-not-rescued/articleshow/79584579.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ED seeks details of projects and payments from ULCCS||KOCHI: Enforcement directorate (ED), probing the money laundering aspect in the gold smuggling case, has sought details from Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) about projects and payments it received, including government projects. The details were sought by ED via an email sent on Nov 30. Sources said the action was part of the inquiry into the Prevention of Money Laundering Act case, registered by the agency following the gold smuggling case. ED has already arrested M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in connection with the case. According to sources, ED has mainly sought four specific pieces of information in its mail. This includes details of ongoing or completed projects of ULCCS during the past five years, details of payment received or made by the society, copies of bank account statements for the past five years and details of government projects. The e-mail, according to sources, was sent by ED on the same day the agency conducted an examination at ULCCS in Vadakara. ED officials had then spent around 150 minutes at the office. The society had then come up with a press statement saying that reports of an ED raid at its office was baseless. In a release, the society had said that it was true that two officials came to the office and only one officer from Kozhikode entered the office. Society had claimed that the official had then enquired whether a person – against whom the agency has undertaken a probe – has any connection with Uralungal Society and it was answered in the negative. The official also wanted to see the income tax statement of the society, the society had said. Society chairman Rameshan Paleri had then urged in the statement to not cast aspersion on the society, which strictly follows all the laws. Meanwhile, sources said that the information was sought as part of a primary enquiry. Sources added that they were looking into certain contracts, including that of the government, received by the society as part of the probe. ED is also set to question CM Raveendran, additional private secretary of the chief minister, on December 10. ED had earlier sought details of major projects of the government including LIFE Mission and KFON. Sources said ED was yet to receive all information it sought from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-seeks-details-of-projects-and-payments-from-ulccs/articleshow/79585095.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kozhikode||K-Rail protest to decide poll outcome in Kozhikode||KOZHIKODE: The proposed semi-high-speed rail project has become the hot poll topic in the coastal areas of the district with indefinite agitation against the project going on in at least 10 spots along the proposed alignment of the project. The indefinite sathyagraha at Kattilpedika in Chemancherry panchayat has crossed 64 days and residents, including women, are participating in the stir. The agitation at Moodadi panchayat has been going on for 43 days. The issue became a major poll topic with UDF joining the various local-level action committees, which had been on the warpath against the project during the last three months. Many action committee leaders are in the fray in the local body polls, mainly under the banner of the UDF. Concerns about possible displacement of families along the proposed alignment of the project have emerged as a main campaign topic in at least six local body institutions, including Chemancherry, Moodadi, Thikkodi, Chorode, etc. According to the district-level action committee, as many as 3,000 families will have to be displaced in the district alone for the SilverLine project implemented by Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail). “The K-Rail project has become the most important poll issue in local body institutions from Elathur to Chorode in the district. The threat of displacement has created serious concern among people and it will have impact in the poll outcome in many wards,” T T Ismail, chairman of Anti-K-Rail Janakeeya Samithi, said. He added that people belonging to all political parties along the affected areas are part of the agitation. Leaders of opposition political parties, including Congress leader Oommen Chandy, and others have made it a point to visit the venue of agitation during their campaign visits. Meanwhile, CPM leaders said that the UDF was using the issue for electoral gains and that the LDF stand on the issue is that the alignment should avoid thickly populated human habitations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/k-rail-protest-to-decide-poll-outcome-in-koz/articleshow/79585105.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kanpur||Child theft bid foiled at pvt hospital in Kalyanpur||KANPUR: An unidentified miscreant on Saturday morning tried to steal a child at a private hospital in Kalyanpur area of the city from the post-natal ward but escaped when alarm was raised by child’s father. The incident led to panic among other hospital inmates. The police on the basis of CCTV footage is trying to ascertain and nab the miscreant following a complaint by child’s father at Kalyanpur police station. A resident of Mahu village in Auraiya district, Aniruddh Singh’s wife -Jyoti had delivered a baby boy in the hospital on December 2. The thief barged inside the post-natal ward of the hospital at around 5 am on Saturday and tried to steal the baby,” said the child’s father, adding that his wife was sleeping in the ward while he was lying but was awake. He saw somebody entering the ward who tried to lift the baby after reaching close to his wife’s bed. Following commotion, his wife woke up and cries were raised. “I then chased the thief after which he fled the ward. I am thankful to God that I was awake otherwise the thief would have escaped with the baby,” he said. The hospital staff thereafter scanned the CCTV footage and found a suspect escaping from the ward. “We have handed over the CCTV footage to police,” said a hospital staff. “An FIR has been lodged in this regard. A police team visited the hospital and after investigation asked authorities to step up security. We are at present scanning CCTV footage and soon the miscreant will be in police net,” said SP West Dr Anil Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/child-theft-bid-foiled-at-pvt-hospital-in-kalyanpur/articleshow/79585583.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Upgrade Valparai govt hosp: CPM||Coimbatore: CPM members on Saturday petitioned the district collector, Pollachi sub-collector and deputy director of health department to upgrade the government hospital at Valparai. P Paramasivam, Valparai region secretary of the party, said it was one of the long-pending demands of the public, as doctors at the hospital had been recommending patients to the government hospitals in Pollachi or Coimbatore for further treatment. “In this time of Covid-19 pandemic, it is causing huge inconvenience to the public especially as transportation facilities are less.” If the hospital is upgraded, he said, the public need not travel all the way to Pollachi or Coimbatore. Pointing out that the posts of sanitary workers, security and ward boys were vacant at the hospital for years, he requested the state government to take necessary steps to fill them at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/upgrade-valparai-govt-hosp-cpm/articleshow/79585946.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Five arrested for stealing copper wire||Coimbatore: Five people have been arrested for stealing copper wires from transformers in the district. Police have recovered 950kg copper wires and 50kg aluminum wires worth Rs 7.10 lakh from the accused. It is to be noted that district superintendent of police (SP) Ara Arularasu had formed a special team led by DSP Suryamoorthy, inspectors Thangam, Shanmugam and Sundarapandian after 11 cases of copper wire thefts were reported from Annur, Kovilpalayam, Periyanaickenpalayam and Sulur police station limits in the past four months. “We found some miscreants were making away with the copper wires from transformers after disconnecting the electricity connections,” the SP said. The special team arrested C Chinna Thambi alias Chelladurai, 48, K Karthik alias Rangaraj, 31, both daily wage labourers from Kovilpalayam, K Sekar, 47, a driver from Karamadai, his brother K Shanmugam, 55, of Othakkalmandapam and M Manikandan, 19, a scrap dealer from Thudiyalur, on Friday night based on their crime record. They were booked under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody. “Three of them were arrested three years ago for the same offence. They started stealing copper wires from transformers again to make a quick buck. We have recovered the stolen wires from them,” Arularasu said. He said the accused had chosen the transformers on the premises of private firms and agriculture fields and in remote villages for stealing the wires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/five-arrested-for-stealing-copper-wire/articleshow/79585913.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Defecating squatters, cowdung pose threat to Bok airport expansion work||BOKARO: A day after the Airports Authority of India announced it will develop the Bokaro airport and connect Patna and Kolkata through regional connectivity scheme Udan, TOI toured the area and found defecating humans and grazing animals giving a hard time to the officials of the airport a tough time in completing the expansion work. Speaking to officials, it was known that around 100 hutments dot the area along the runway and people living in them send in their cattle to graze despite repeated requests. AAI has also deployed two special guards on the runway whose only work is to shoo stray cattle off the runway. The runway also serves as a public toilet for those living in the vicinity and while the stink makes it difficult for the officials and the workers to work, requesting them against it often lead to confrontations. Requests to solve the problem have also been made to the district administration and Bokaro Steel Plant, which owns and maintains the airport, but no measures have been taken to solve the problem. Coupled with civic issues, the problem of rising theft of tree logs, car batteries and other things ail the overall expansion work of the airport. Senior manager of AAI at Bokaro aiport, Priyanka Sharma said, “It is very troublesome that cattle are pushed inside the airport boundary wall to graze. Cowdung left by the bovines are also ruining the runway as it may peel off the surface. During dawn and dusk, hundreds of women and children enter the airport boundary to defecate. When we oppose, they resist and sometimes, react badly. Their faeces stink and pollute the environment. A boundary wall is being constructed near Sector 12 and we fear they will damage the kuccha construction. We need support from the administration, police and BSL.” Around 20% work is remaining in the airport, including cutting and trimming of trees and construction of a few units and boundary wall. Although 4,000 of the 6,000 trees have been removed, fresh growths could be spotted in places. When contacted, Bokaro deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh refused to talk on the issue. At present, the airport handles non-scheduled flight operations of the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) and movement of VIPs. Owned and maintained by BSL, the development work has been taken up by AAI at Rs 46 crore. Once the construction works are over, the airport will have to seek an approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation to begin commercial flight operations. The foundation of the airport was laid on August 25, 2018 by former chief minister Raghubar Dar and former minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha, but the work became slow after the Covid-induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/defecating-squatters-cowdung-pose-threat-to-bok-airport-expansion-work/articleshow/79585947.cms||Divy Khare
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||City parks open, but patrons keep away||Coimbatore: More than a week after the city corporation quietly opened parks, parents and senior citizens are hesitant to visit the recreation spots. The usual hustle and bustle seen during the weekend is missing. On Saturday evening, the first weekend after reopening, VOC Park saw slow return of patrons. Visitors, who were allowed inside after temperature screening at the entrance, included some teenagers and families. Small children and grandparents were missing. “We need some fresh air and the children also need an outing,” said 56-year-old Anumathi Rajan, who had visited the park on Thursday to check if horses had returned to send her seven-year-old grandson on a short ride. The neighbourhood parks, however witnessed a slightly better response on Saturday evening. The small park located off the Race Course walking track had a couple of parents pushing children on swings. “We brought our children on the condition that we would leave if it was crowded. Thankfully, there was only one other mother and child,” said Amritaj, father of a three-year-old girl and a five-year-old boy. While he and his wife were wearing a mask, the children were not. TOI also did not see many parents sanitizing surface of swings and slides before their children used them. “It is more practical to keep reminding them not to touch their face and sanitize their hands every 10 minutes,” said Nirmala, mother of a three-year-old girl, at a park in Peelamedu. “But we can’t keep them indoors anymore. This outing is physically and psychologically beneficial for her and me.” Many senior citizens who usually meet at Bharathi Park were seen holding masks close to their nose to enter the park. “It is dangerous for us to walk on the roads. Parks, being vehicle-free, are much safer. But we don’t want to get infected either,” said a 72-year-old man.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-parks-open-but-patrons-keep-away/articleshow/79585952.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Agra||UPSRTC suspends bus services to Delhi due to farmers’ protest||AGRA: With thousands of farmers protesting on most of the major routes via NH-2 and Yamuna Expressway to Delhi-NCR, Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has decided to temporarily suspend all its operations to the national capital from Agra region from Saturday. The suspension of services and congestion of other alternate routes have caused a huge inconvenience for passengers. All pre-bookings of AC buses to the national capital have also been cancelled, and UPSRTC has begun refunding the fare. The UPSRTC stated that the bus services will resume once the protest ends. The state transport corporation had been operating at least 60 buses daily to and from Delhi. It had to suspend its services following feedback from the bus drivers. According to UPSRTC regional manager Manoj Kumar, there is risk involved in operating buses to Delhi now. "We do not want the passengers to be affected. But, the main routes along with the alternate ones to Delhi have been blocked," Kumar said. Not just daily commuters, several people have been left stranded during the wedding season. “I had to attend a wedding function of my niece in Delhi. After reaching the bus stand, I came to know about the new development. Now, I am looking for a private taxi. And they are charging a huge amount," Vinod Chaudhary, a passenger at Idgah bus stand, said. Another worried passenger at ISBT said, “I had to go to Delhi for business work and booked an AC bus ticket. I need to travel to Delhi every week." "Now, I don’t know how I'll manage without any bus service," Mukesh Gupta, the passenger added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/upsrtc-suspends-bus-services-to-delhi-due-to-farmers-protest/articleshow/79584595.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||UPEIDA CEO for speedy acquisition of land for Ganga e-way||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) CEO Awasthi Awanish held a meeting on the preparations for chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s dream project of the 594km Gang Expressway. In the meeting held via video-conferencing on Saturday, Awasthi asked the district magistrates of the 12 districts through which the proposed expressway has to pass, to start the modalities of land acquisition for the project. Awasthi asked the officers to inspect the sites and start paper work for the land acquisition for which Rs 9,255 crore have been earmarked. Briefing them about the details of the process to be followed for land acquisition, the CEO said the project from Meerut to Prayagraj is expected to cost Rs 36,410 crore. Awasthi asked the officals to expedite action as the foundation laying of the project is proposed in June 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upeida-ceo-for-speedy-acquisition-of-land-for-ganga-e-way/articleshow/79587165.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Varanasi||SP’s Ashutosh Sinha wins Kashi MLC (graduates) seat||VARANASI: After losing MLC (teachers) Varanasi constituency, BJP suffered another jolt on Saturday when SP snatched MLC (graduates) Varanasi constituency from it. After 22th round of counting of votes and elimination of 21 candidates, additional returning officer and district magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma said SP’s Ashutosh Sinha was declared winner. Singh bagged 26,535votes to defeat sitting MLC and BJP candidate Kedar Nath Singh, who secured only 22,685, by a difference of 3,850. After getting approval by the election commission, additional RO and DM Chandauli Navneet Singh Chahal handed over the victory certificate to Sinha. Sinha claimed the teachers and graduate voters have given a clear signal for 2022 assembly polls by ensuring victory of SP candidates on Varanasi seat of graduate and teachers constituencies. He gave all credit to party chief Akhilesh Yadav for showing faith him and also party cadres in all eights of constituency for working hard at grassroot level to ensure victory. The counting of votes for graduate constituency, which had started on Thursday morning, could conclude after 52 hours on Saturday afternoon. Number of valid votes for counting was 76,086. After 20th round of counting 20 out of 22 candidates had been eliminated while BJP candidate was also eliminated in 21st round and following the counting of 22nd round Sinha, who had been maintaining lead over BJP since the first round of counting, was declared winner. The difference of votes of Sinha and Singh was above 2000 when the counting of the votes of first preference was completed. Hopes for the BJP candidate ended when he could not reduce the margin even after the end of the counting of the votes of second preference. Before Sinha, SP supported candidate for MLC (teachers) Varanasi constituency Lal Bihari Yadav had defeated BJP’s Chetnarain Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sps-ashutosh-sinha-wins-kashi-mlc-graduates-seat/articleshow/79585393.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Budding engrs to get Chancellor’s medals||Lucknow: The prestigious Chancellor’s Gold, Silver and Bronze medals of Dr Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University have been bagged by engineering students this year. The medals are awarded to students scoring highest marks among all faculties. At least 151 medals will be awarded to 122 students during the university’s convocation ceremony to be held on December 14. Total 71 medals have been bagged by girls while 51 have been won by boys. Rohit Srivastava of BTech (civil engineering), who scored 89.5% marks, will receive the Chancellor’s Gold Medal. “I came all the way from Ghazipur to study here. Teachers as well as the university’s environment inspired me to give my best,” said Rohit, who aspires to become an IAS officer. “My success mantra is ‘PhD ATM’ (patience, hardwork, dedication and accurate time management). It helps one achieve goals,” said BTech (electrical) student Aditya Kumar Rawat, who will get Chancellor’s silver medal. BTech (computer science) student Akansha Singh, who will receive Chancellor’s bronze medal, said, “My family’s financial condition was not very good so I gave tuitions to support my education. I am fortunate that in Covid times, I got placement in a Lucknow-based private company. I want to work in a top IT company.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/budding-engrs-to-get-chancellors-medals/articleshow/79587114.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Victory over virus certain, but don’t drop guard: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: To provide information of Covid-19 testing labs at the click of a button, chief minister Yogi Adityanath launched the ‘Mera Covid Kendra’ or ‘My Covid Centre’ mobile application on Saturday. The App will allow a person to locate a Covid-19 testing centre within 5km radius and also get information on testing centres in the district. The App can be downloaded from Google Playstore. While launching the App, Yogi said our victory against Covid-19 pandemic was certain but one should maintain caution and remain alert. He said that on March 23, when the first RTPCR test was carried out by KGMU, the state had a testing capacity of 72. However, after a lot of hard work and proper planning, the state has carried out over 2 crore tests. “Out of these, 40% have been RTPCR tests. UP has performed the most number of tests in the country. Most have accepted that the UP model of Covid management has been inspiring. From WHO to NITI Aayog, all have praised UP for handling of the pandemic,” he said. The ‘Mera Covid Kendra’ App has been developed by the department of health and family welfare. Additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad said after making test reports available online almost two months ago, around 30 lakh people had been able to access reports from their homes. “For those who do not have a smartphone, they can access the list of testing centres from the director general medical health website: http://dgmhup.gov.in. All Covid-19 testing centres have been geotagged. The health department field staff and district administration will continue to update the list with new labs as and when they open up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/victory-over-virus-certain-but-dont-drop-guard-cm/articleshow/79587130.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kanpur||Fire in showroom, 50 vehicles gutted||KANPUR: A major fire broke out at a motorbike showroom near Akbarpur under-pass area Kanpur Dehat district on Saturday evening, gutting about 50 bikes. Two fire tenders from Mati fire station were rushed to douse the flames. They took more than two hours to being the situation under control. “We are ascertaining actual cause that led to fire in the bike showroom near Akbarpur under-pass. After being informed, two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. However, no casualty has been reported,” said ASP Kanpur Dehat Anoop Kumar. Panic prevailed in the area that dots several commercial establishments. “This was one of leading showroom of bike and more than 50 new bike models were parked here, which reduced to ashes,” said ASP further. The police are investigating the matter to ascertain the reason behind the incident,.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fire-in-showroom-50-vehicles-gutted/articleshow/79585487.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Varanasi||City youth is PETA ‘volunteer of the year’||PRAYAGRAJ: In honour of International Volunteer Day on December 5, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India has named Sangam city youth Ayan Banerjee as its ‘2020 Volunteer of the Year’. Eighteen-year-old Ayan, a resident of Tagore Town locality of the city is a vegan and became a PETA India volunteer two years ago. He is presently pursuing BA (social science and public policy) course at OP Jindal Global University, Sonipat. “Ayan has visited many schools to explain the students about the benefits of vegan eating. In collaboration with the Allahabad Museum, Ayan participated in a 200-km run from Lucknow to Prayagraj—visiting several colleges along the way in many cities, including Rae Bareli and Paratapgarh, distributing leaflets about vegan eating”, mentions the press statement issued by PETA. “I intend to make the world free of animal cruelty with a reinvigorated spirit,” said Ayan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-youth-is-peta-volunteer-of-the-year/articleshow/79585300.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||He lost eyesight, but not vision of achieving success||LUCKNOW: Life took a tragic turn for Ram Darash, a bright student and son of a labourer, when he lost his eyesight soon after taking admission to pursue graduation. The setback, however, did not deter this student from a remote village in Ambedkarnagar from his resolve to make a mark for himself. Ram Darash, who has completed MA (History), will be awarded highest four medals in SMNRU convocation ceremony. He will be awarded the coveted Vice-Chancellor’s Gold medal for scoring highest marks in his course, Amit Mittal Memorial Gold medal for highest scoring differently-abled PG student, Dr Shakuntala Misra Gold medal for highest scoring visually-impaired PG student and CM’s Bronze Medal for scoring third highest marks in Arts faculty. “My father Shri Nirankar is a daily wager. At the age of 14, I was diagnosed with brain tumour and was operated upon. My eyesight started deteriorating gradually. I lost eyesight completely after I joined BSc at Dr RML Avadh University, Faizabad and had to discontinue. My uncle, who is also visually-challenged, told me about All-India Confederation for the Blind (AICB), New Delhi, that teaches blind students free of cost. I got my disability certificate and learnt braille and computer at AICB,” he said. “My parents and my younger brother, a small-time cook, stood by me and got me admitted to BA at DSMNRU. I loved science but studied humanities as it was the only course I could afford. I gave tuitions to fund my education,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/he-lost-eyesight-but-not-vision-of-achieving-success/articleshow/79587123.cms||Mohita Tewari
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP becomes 1st state to conduct 2 crore Covid tests||LUCKNOW: Creating history, Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to conduct more than two crore Covid-19 tests. “With the addition of 1,67,938 Covid-19 tests in past 24 hours, UP crossed the two crore-mark in testing,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, said on Saturday. “UP is the first and the only state to achieve this feat,” he added. As per the data from the Indian Council of Medical Research, more than 14 crore Covid-19 tests have been done in the country. UP’s share of nearly two crore plus tests accounts for 13.7% of the tests undertaken in the country. Prasad said the focus is now on increasing the share of RTPCR tests among total tests conducted on a daily basis. “Efforts are on to undertake at least 40-45% of Covid-19 tests through the RTPCR method as per directions from UP CM,” he said. On the pandemic situation in UP, Prasad said the state’s positivity rate for December has remained lower than 1.5%. “The case positivity rate (CPR) for December 1-4 has averaged to 1.3%,” he said. Prasad, however, warned against lowering guard over the next two months to avoid a second wave. “The risk of pandemic remains the same. The cases may appear to have declined but that is primarily because of caution and surveillance. Any kind of carelessness can cause complications for everyone,” he said. Prasad said after targeted testing of wedding organisers, now those working in beauty parlours and boutiques will be tested under the government’s ongoing focused testing campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-becomes-1st-state-to-conduct-2cr-covid-tests/articleshow/79587111.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 6, 2020||Kanpur||Uttar Pradesh: Youth returns home after 13 years in Pakistan jail||JHANSI: Thirty-five years old Sonu Singh was accorded a grand welcome by his family and friends when he returned to his home district, Lalitpur, after 15 years, of which 13 were sent in a Pakistani prison. Sonu arrived at Lalitpur on Saturday by train from Amritsar along with officials of the local administration who had gone to fetch him. At the station he was received by his relatives and local leaders along with state minister Manhoar Lal. Originally hailing from Satwasa village falling under Madawra police station of Lalitpur, Sonu had left his home one and a half decades ago without any pressing reason. How he crossed the Indo-Pak border and landed into jail still remains a mystery as Sonu is not having a sound mental health to reveal his past. On October 26, Sonu was released from Pakistan jail and was handed over to Indian authorities who brought them to Amritsar where he was quarantined in a community centre for a fortnight under Covid protocol. Later, his family members were informed. Hearing the news, his father Roshan Singh immediately rushed to meet him but could not bring him back as official formalities were not complete. Later, after the local police confirmed his domicile, paper work was initiated by the district administration and permission was sought from the state home department. It took two long months before the permission was received, following which two officials from Lalitpur district, including a naib-tehsildar and a sub-inspector from Madawra police station along with Roshan went to Amritsar to fetch him. On reaching home, Sonu got a grand welcome by his family members and villagers. Everyone was anxious to meet the man who had vanished years ago. Talking to reporters at the railway station, Sonu said he had accidentally crossed the Wagah border and landed in Pakistani jail. There he was beaten and mistreated, he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/youth-returns-home-after-13-yrs-in-pak-jail/articleshow/79585518.cms||Arindam Ghosh
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||‘Vaccine security to be on lines of EVMs’||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a review of the state’s preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, two days after the PM held a meeting with states to work out its distribution. He said that the storage capacity in the state should be increased to 2.3 lakh litres by December 15 and added that security at storage sites should be as tight as it is for EVMs during elections. Additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said that currently, the cold chain capacity in the state is 90,000 litres. This has to be almost tripled in the next 10 days. “We are working with the objective of increasing the capacity to 2.3 lakh litres by December 15 and are confident of achieving the target,” he said. The CM said that the cold chain facility has to be prepared at both the district and division levels to ensure that it is readily available in all parts of the state. “The health and police departments, along with district administration, have to ensure extremely tight security for the vaccines, once they arrive. It will have to be of the level given to EVMs during elections,” said an official. The CM also said that a large number of master trainers should be prepared who can help train vaccinators. Once the vaccine is received, an extremely large number of vaccinators would be required to ensure that the doses are administered to the target sections of society at the earliest, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccine-security-to-be-on-lines-of-evms/articleshow/79587135.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Women join forces to make it big in farming, turn entrepreneurs||Coimbatore: It was two years ago when 65-year-old D Soundarajothi, a retired school teacher, developed a newfound interest in agriculture. Married into a family of farmers, it was easy for her to nurture her interest with their help. Today, besides cultivating chickpeas and vegetables on her farmland, she has formed a women food security group that comprises 15 members at Kuppichipalayam village in Periyanaickenpalayam block in the district. The group members, who predominantly cultivate coriander and chickpeas, are turning them into value-added products and mostly selling them directly to the public. Soundarajothi says, “Almost all of them have been into farming for years together and selling their farm produce to traders even for lower prices, as it was difficult to store the produce for long periods. It is only recently we came together as a group and started making value-added products, thanks to the training programmes conducted by the agriculture department.” D Jayamani, 62, said she had been cultivating coriander on two acres land for years. “Earlier, we used to sell coriander seeds to traders for Rs 100 per kilogram. But now, we are packing them in small covers and selling that to our neighbours and other social contacts for Rs 180 per kilogram. We also powder it and 1kg is priced at Rs 250. We have also learnt to prepare coriander coffee powder, which is priced at Rs 350 per kg.” Explaining that they were making all the powders with the help of household equipment and taking other farming equipment on high rent, she said subsidy from the government to purchase necessary equipment would do a lot of good to them. While they are selling three-fourth of chickpeas as wholegrains, they are turning the remaining into flour manually. S Thangamani, assistant technical manager with the state government’s Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) scheme, said the advantage of forming groups was that ideas could be pooled in and the pragmatic ones could be implemented. “The entire group will benefit and they could also get a say in price fixation.” She said they had provided Rs 10,000 for the group under the ATMA scheme, besides training them. ‘We had taken them on field visits to gain more knowledge. We have planned another visit to Madurai agriculture college to teach them about packing and grading their produce. The next step for them is to apply for the FSSAI certificate to start selling their food products in markets themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/women-join-forces-to-make-it-big-in-farming-turn-entrepreneurs/articleshow/79585953.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Historical Uttarayani Mela to be symbolically organised this time||Pithoragarh: In wake of Covid-19, the historical Uttarayani Mela of Bageshwar — Kumaon’s biggest cultural festival — would be symbolically held this time. The decision regarding the fair, which would be organised on the occasion of Uttarayan on January 14, was taken in a district-level meeting on Saturday. In this meeting, it was decided that thermal screening will be conducted in the fair at selected spots and all coronavirus-related protocols like wearing a mask, social distancing, and sanitisation will be strictly followed. The fair is annually organised on the day of Makar Sankranti at the banks of Sarayu and Gomti rivers. “All the religious activities will be organised according to the guidelines of the Union health ministry. Ganga Snan (holy bath at Ganga) will be allowed at select spots but no other religious ceremony or commercial activity will be permitted in view of the Covid-19 threat,” said Vineet Kumar, DM Bageshwar. Traditionally, traders from Tibet have also been coming to the fair to sell their wares. The fair is also remembered for movement against the infamous Coolie-Begar system that was introduced by the British during colonial times. According to this system, each village head in the region was tasked to maintain a register with names of all the locals who can be used as coolies for carrying the luggage of the travelling British officials free of cost. However, during the Uttarayani Mela in 1921, several village heads of the Kumaon region threw their registers in the Sarayu to protest against the oppressive practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/historical-uttarayani-mela-to-be-symbolically-organised-this-time/articleshow/79585117.cms||Prem Punetha
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh review meetings in Haridwar each Saturday; in Doon on Mondays||Dehradun: With barely a month left for Kumbh 2021, chief secretary (CS) Om Prakash on Saturday reviewed the progress of ongoing projects at Haridwar. Asking officials to complete the projects within the deadline, the CS asked for requirements for the second instalment of Kumbh works, with utilization certificates and demands for work, to be submitted to the state by Monday, so funds can be arranged. Prakash also said that Kumbh review meetings will now be held every Saturday in Haridwar and Monday in Doon. In the past few months, both CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and the chief secretary have presided over more than two dozen meetings to ensure that all projects are completed within the stipulated time span. Earlier, after inspecting the pace of work in Haridwar, CM Rawat had said that 98% of the work will be completed by December end. The CM has maintained that the format of Kumbh will be decided on basis of the Covid-19 situation in February 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-review-meetings-in-haridwar-each-saturday-in-doon-on-mondays/articleshow/79585118.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 6, 2020||Udaipur||Of 2.8 lakh total cases in Rajasthan, recovered number breaches 2.5 lakh||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 recovered count breached 2.5lakh mark on Saturday as the recovery rate touched 91%. In December, the recovery rate has been much higher at 150% as more persons recovered than the new infections reported in these first five days. According to a health department report, 10,433 people tested positive for Covid in the state in December, while 15,613 recovered. The recovery rate in November was 80.3%. Of the 2.78 lakh people infected with the virus, 2.52 lakh have already recovered. “We are taking all possible measures to improve recovery rate and to prevent deaths along with focus on contact tracing and testing,” said a senior health department official. In October too, the state had reported more recoveries than new infections with 108.1% recovery rate. The state had reported 61,701 new infections in October against 66,759 recoveries. Meanwhile, on Saturday, 20 people died, while 2,076 others tested positive bringing state’s overall tally to 2,78,496. State’s death toll rose to 2,409. Jaipur reported four deaths taking its casualties to 452. With three more deaths, Kota’s virus toll rose to 145. Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 250. Ajmer’s toll touched 196 with two more deaths and Bharatpur’s fatalities rose to 112 with two deaths on Saturday. With two deaths, Barmer saw its 42nd virus death, Udaipur 103rd, Pali 93rd, Sikar 83rd, Rajsamand 37th and Baran its 29th fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (501), Jodhpur (215), Ajmer (125), Kota (123), Udaipur (114), Alwar (104), Nagaur (85), Dungarpur (83), Pali (76), Bharatpur (75), Bhilwara (72), Bundi (51), Sikar (51), Chittorgarh (43), Barmer (36), Sriganganagar (35), Bikaner (35), Jalore (33), Tonk (29), Sawai Madhopur (25), Rajsamand (24), Sirohi (21), Hanumangarh (21), Jhunjhunu (16), Pratpgarh (16), Dholpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Churu (10), Karauli (9), Jaisalmer (9), Dausa (8), Banswara (8) and Baran (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/of-2-8l-total-cases-in-state-recovered-no-breaches-2-5l/articleshow/79588044.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chennai||Raga Blues: What’s missing this Margazhi season?||World War II couldn’t silence this musical festival that began in the 1920s. The 2004 tsunami couldn’t drown out the ragams. The 2015 Chennai floods watered it down a little, but the following year the December Music festival, the largest in the world, returned renewed. This year though, Covid-19, the 70 nanometre force majeure, has managed to bring the month-long Carnatic music season sputtering to a halt. Yes, the concerts are being webcast in a bid to keep the season going in spirit, but will it be the same? Will it feel the same? Sabha hop, missing a skipIn the household of singer Mahathi, her father Thiruvaiyaru Sekar, can never be found in the house all through December because he is sabha hopping from dawn to late evening. The three meals of the day are eaten with other sabha hopping raga whistling buddies who have skipped out of their homes. Every year, a minimum of `30,000 is spent on season tickets (there are after all more than 140 sabhas in the city), and he is at the sabha at 8am before the curtains go up on the first concert of the day, returning home at 10.45pm only after the last curtain falls. This year though, despite the buzz about the plethora of online concerts, Sekar just doesn’t feel the music in the air. "Sangeetha vasanai ey illae," he says to his daughter about a city that has gone silent. All the world’s a stage now, only it’s notIn times past, before the air conditioned sabha halls came into being, most concerts were held in the wide open, under trees. It looks like it is a return to those times, with some sabhas hosting drive-in concerts (with masks, social distancing and takeaway food) as well as projecting performances onto the walls of buildings. "Performing live has a very different vibe from recording in a studio," says Carnatic vocalist Mahathi. "The camaraderie with co-artists on stage, banter with rasikas who dissect every ragam sung, it’s all missing," she says. "Now, I just sit in a studio, with my dad and mom as my audience, and sing, in the hope that a rasika somewhere is enjoying the concert." Virtual concerts a ho-hum for someNalli Kuppuswami Chetti, among the most well-known music aficionados in the city, who for decades has been known to attend the inaugural session of several sabhas, feels lost this season, with only one sabha hosting live concerts. For the first time, he says, he has attended just one concert in person – the inaugural of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan music fest in Kilpauk, the only live at-venue event so far. With pandemic restrictions giving room for just 200 to gather at a 1,000-seater sabha, most organisers have decided to forgo the live concert for the virtual one rather than turn away diehard rasika number 201. "But listening to a kutcheri on the computer, without the stage, the audience, the ambience, is as boring as watching a programme on DD," says the 80-year-old. Nighties in vogue, not silk sarisThis year, the pandemic blues have replaced the MS Blues. At Nalli Silks, sari sales are just a third of what they usually are in December, says Kuppuswami. The season, which would see an explosion of kanjeevaram saris, a resplendence of jewellery and strings of white jasmine, as rasikas suited up in all their splendour for the kutcheris, is a fashion no-show this year. "Even the festive season buyers are not coming in. No one feels like dressing up." For 67-year-old Latha Balasubramanian, hard core rasika, attending more than 275 concerts a season, winning Carnatic quiz prizes 14 years in a row, this December will be spent hooked up to the TV, on her own, tuning in to webcasts of her favourite singers. "I don’t step out of home because of the pandemic. I have literally been living in my nightie for the past year. So, no pattu podavais this time for the concerts. I will buy more nighties though." Food, only for thoughtSrinivasan of Mountbatten Mani Iyer Catering Services, who ran a sabha canteen every season for the past decade, says this year, with business at an all-time low, there is no mood or money to set out a platter. The rasikas though are not giving up, asking canteen stalwarts like Srinivasan to open up a canteen in a kalyana mandapam and run it through the season. "December was when we could experiment within the traditions of south Indian cuisine, give rasikas a snake gourd roast to see their reaction. This was the only time of year that ‘specialty’ items like kasi halwa and Ashoka halwa unique to the season would be in abundance." Caterers love the season because it was the time they became one with rasikas, chatting with customers, showing off items on the menu. "The rest of the year we are just faceless cooks and servers quietly going about our business in the backdrop of a family gathering. The Margazhi season is when we are in the spotlight." Roadies hit a dead endEvery December season, ragam roadies from across the world would congregate in Chennai, bulk buying all the tickets to all their favourite singer’s kutcheris so they wouldn’t miss one. Some distraught rasikas would call it a ‘ticket mafia’ edging other aficionados out. Spots for fans stuck in traffic would be reserved using the age old kerchief on the seat method, fights would break out if there was any hanky panky, rasikas would show up wearing badges professing their loyalty to musicians, some would cough up thousands more to get front row seats inches away from their heroes… the pandemic has now given every rasika a box seat to the show now, on their own in front of the computer or phone. Away from the madding crowd. Lonely as a cloud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/raga-blues-whats-missing-this-margazhi-season/articleshow/79585979.cms||Kamini Mathai
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Of 2.8 lakh total cases in Rajasthan, recovered number breaches 2.5 lakh||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 recovered count breached 2.5lakh mark on Saturday as the recovery rate touched 91%. In December, the recovery rate has been much higher at 150% as more persons recovered than the new infections reported in these first five days. According to a health department report, 10,433 people tested positive for Covid in the state in December, while 15,613 recovered. The recovery rate in November was 80.3%. Of the 2.78 lakh people infected with the virus, 2.52 lakh have already recovered. “We are taking all possible measures to improve recovery rate and to prevent deaths along with focus on contact tracing and testing,” said a senior health department official. In October too, the state had reported more recoveries than new infections with 108.1% recovery rate. The state had reported 61,701 new infections in October against 66,759 recoveries. Meanwhile, on Saturday, 20 people died, while 2,076 others tested positive bringing state’s overall tally to 2,78,496. State’s death toll rose to 2,409. Jaipur reported four deaths taking its casualties to 452. With three more deaths, Kota’s virus toll rose to 145. Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 250. Ajmer’s toll touched 196 with two more deaths and Bharatpur’s fatalities rose to 112 with two deaths on Saturday. With two deaths, Barmer saw its 42nd virus death, Udaipur 103rd, Pali 93rd, Sikar 83rd, Rajsamand 37th and Baran its 29th fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (501), Jodhpur (215), Ajmer (125), Kota (123), Udaipur (114), Alwar (104), Nagaur (85), Dungarpur (83), Pali (76), Bharatpur (75), Bhilwara (72), Bundi (51), Sikar (51), Chittorgarh (43), Barmer (36), Sriganganagar (35), Bikaner (35), Jalore (33), Tonk (29), Sawai Madhopur (25), Rajsamand (24), Sirohi (21), Hanumangarh (21), Jhunjhunu (16), Pratpgarh (16), Dholpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Churu (10), Karauli (9), Jaisalmer (9), Dausa (8), Banswara (8) and Baran (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/of-2-8l-total-cases-in-state-recovered-no-breaches-2-5l/articleshow/79586998.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kanpur||IAS officer posted on MLC election observer duty dies in Varanasi||VARANASI: IAS officer Ajay Kumar Singh (50), who was admitted to a private hospital after suffering a massive heart attack on Friday while on election duty for UP Legislative Council polls in Varanasi, passed away on Saturday morning. Singh, an IAS officer of the 1998 batch, had been appointed as election observer in MLC elections for teachers’ constituency and graduates’ constituency in Varanasi. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also condoled the death of the IAS officer. He observed two-minute silence along with senior officials during the daily Team 11 meeting at Lucknow. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said Singh breathed his last at the hospital around 9.30am. The mortal remains of Singh were consigned to flames at Manikarnika Ghat in the afternoon. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and others paid homage to the departed soul as the funeral procession started from circuit house. Singh had suffered a massive heart attack around 8.45am on Friday and was rushed to a private hospital in Khajuri locality. Senior administrative and police officials had reached the hospital after getting information. The medical director of the hospital Dr. Naveen Kumar Singh said, Singh was brought to the hospital in a critical condition. He was on life support system in the critical care unit (CCU). He was not even in a condition to be air-lifted to Delhi. Singh’s wife, Neena Sharma, who was election observer in Agra, also reached Varanasi after getting information. The state government had arranged a helicopter for her to reach Varanasi. She is a senior IAS officer posted as secretary in the infrastructure and industrial development department. Chief Secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari also condoled the demise of Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ias-officer-posted-on-mlc-election-observer-duty-dies/articleshow/79585368.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kanpur||IIT-Kanpur placement drive: About 500 students get offers||KANPUR: The placement cell at IIT-Kanpur has successfully placed about 500 students who have got offers from top companies and startups participating in this year’s placement drive being held virtually due to Corona pandemic. By the end of day four on Friday, 481 students had received and accepted job offers. A total of 19 students received job offers on Friday. Last year, 580 students had got placed by the end of day four. The placement result of day five (Saturday) was yet to be complied by the placement office and it was expected that a total of 500 students had been placed. With this about 50 percent of the students (of the total registered strength of students) had been placed. The placement officials and the student co-ordinators are working hard to ensure that the final year students get placement at a time when the hiring activity is slow-paced owing to economic downturn. Placement cell in-charge Prof Kantesh Balani said, “Altogether, 481 students have been placed by the end of day four on Friday. Till day four of this drive, over 170 firms have participated and hired students. He said that this year students and companies are based at remote location. “The students are informed beforehand about interview they have to face. Accordingly, the students appear for tests and interview and are being recruited. We have also asked firms to take into consideration internet outage and powercut at the end of the students while appearing for interview and not to reject them on this ground as this is something beyond their control”, Prof Balani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/iit-k-placement-drive-about-500-students-get-offers/articleshow/79585510.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Wet grinder makers hike prices by 20%||Coimbatore: Wet grinder manufacturers here have increased the price of grinders by 20% after raw material prices moved up. Price of raw materials including mild steel, stainless steel, stone and copper wire increased by 20 to 25% after Diwali, said R Soundar Kumar, president of the Coimbatore Wetgrinder and Accessories Manufacturers’ Association. “Price of ABS plastic has increased by 200%. Along with the price, demand for raw materials has also increased and the sellers have started to limit per day sales of the items. We suspect it is an artificial demand because there wasn’t any abnormal demand for the raw materials,” he said. The district has as many as 200 end product manufacturers and over 400 spare parts suppliers. “While we are yet to recover from the brunt of Covid-19 pandemic, the price rise is further pushing us down. We have been manufacturing only 30% of what we used to produce before the lockdown. We have decided to increase the price of grinders by 20% after holding a talk with manufacturers and suppliers,” Kumar said. The association also sought the intervention of the government to control the raw material price hike and find the actual cause behind it. “Due to the absence of the regular work, we could not hold back our employees and as a result, we are facing labour shortage,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wet-grinder-makers-hike-prices-by-20/articleshow/79585977.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Jodhpur||Of 2.8 lakh total cases in Rajasthan, recovered number breaches 2.5 lakh||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 recovered count breached 2.5lakh mark on Saturday as the recovery rate touched 91%. In December, the recovery rate has been much higher at 150% as more persons recovered than the new infections reported in these first five days. According to a health department report, 10,433 people tested positive for Covid in the state in December, while 15,613 recovered. The recovery rate in November was 80.3%. Of the 2.78 lakh people infected with the virus, 2.52 lakh have already recovered. “We are taking all possible measures to improve recovery rate and to prevent deaths along with focus on contact tracing and testing,” said a senior health department official. In October too, the state had reported more recoveries than new infections with 108.1% recovery rate. The state had reported 61,701 new infections in October against 66,759 recoveries. Meanwhile, on Saturday, 20 people died, while 2,076 others tested positive bringing state’s overall tally to 2,78,496. State’s death toll rose to 2,409. Jaipur reported four deaths taking its casualties to 452. With three more deaths, Kota’s virus toll rose to 145. Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 250. Ajmer’s toll touched 196 with two more deaths and Bharatpur’s fatalities rose to 112 with two deaths on Saturday. With two deaths, Barmer saw its 42nd virus death, Udaipur 103rd, Pali 93rd, Sikar 83rd, Rajsamand 37th and Baran its 29th fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (501), Jodhpur (215), Ajmer (125), Kota (123), Udaipur (114), Alwar (104), Nagaur (85), Dungarpur (83), Pali (76), Bharatpur (75), Bhilwara (72), Bundi (51), Sikar (51), Chittorgarh (43), Barmer (36), Sriganganagar (35), Bikaner (35), Jalore (33), Tonk (29), Sawai Madhopur (25), Rajsamand (24), Sirohi (21), Hanumangarh (21), Jhunjhunu (16), Pratpgarh (16), Dholpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Churu (10), Karauli (9), Jaisalmer (9), Dausa (8), Banswara (8) and Baran (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/of-2-8l-total-cases-in-state-recovered-no-breaches-2-5l/articleshow/79588045.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ajmer||Of 2.8 lakh total cases in Rajasthan, recovered number breaches 2.5 lakh||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 recovered count breached 2.5lakh mark on Saturday as the recovery rate touched 91%. In December, the recovery rate has been much higher at 150% as more persons recovered than the new infections reported in these first five days. According to a health department report, 10,433 people tested positive for Covid in the state in December, while 15,613 recovered. The recovery rate in November was 80.3%. Of the 2.78 lakh people infected with the virus, 2.52 lakh have already recovered. “We are taking all possible measures to improve recovery rate and to prevent deaths along with focus on contact tracing and testing,” said a senior health department official. In October too, the state had reported more recoveries than new infections with 108.1% recovery rate. The state had reported 61,701 new infections in October against 66,759 recoveries. Meanwhile, on Saturday, 20 people died, while 2,076 others tested positive bringing state’s overall tally to 2,78,496. State’s death toll rose to 2,409. Jaipur reported four deaths taking its casualties to 452. With three more deaths, Kota’s virus toll rose to 145. Jodhpur reported two deaths taking its toll to 250. Ajmer’s toll touched 196 with two more deaths and Bharatpur’s fatalities rose to 112 with two deaths on Saturday. With two deaths, Barmer saw its 42nd virus death, Udaipur 103rd, Pali 93rd, Sikar 83rd, Rajsamand 37th and Baran its 29th fatality. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (501), Jodhpur (215), Ajmer (125), Kota (123), Udaipur (114), Alwar (104), Nagaur (85), Dungarpur (83), Pali (76), Bharatpur (75), Bhilwara (72), Bundi (51), Sikar (51), Chittorgarh (43), Barmer (36), Sriganganagar (35), Bikaner (35), Jalore (33), Tonk (29), Sawai Madhopur (25), Rajsamand (24), Sirohi (21), Hanumangarh (21), Jhunjhunu (16), Pratpgarh (16), Dholpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Churu (10), Karauli (9), Jaisalmer (9), Dausa (8), Banswara (8) and Baran (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/of-2-8l-total-cases-in-state-recovered-no-breaches-2-5l/articleshow/79588046.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Varanasi||Role of basic teachers veryimportant in society: Yogi||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath distributed appointment letters to 4,317 teachers recruited in Gorakhpur zone, including 1,762 in Kushinagar, 1,152 in Maharajganj, 823 in Deoria and 580 in Gorakhpur districts in an online event from Lucknow. In all, the CM gave appointment letters to 36,590 assistant basic teachers in the state. In his virtual interaction with the selected candidates, CM Yogi congratulated the teachers and said the appointments were done transparently. The chief minister asked the newly-appointed assistant teachers to work with dedication, devotion and honesty. “Our government is continuously making efforts to upgrade education. Increased use of technology in education will become the basis of massive change. The teachers should also educate children about our traditions and culture,” he added. The role of basic education teachers is very important in society, said Yogi and asked the teachers to teach students with devotion. Social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri handed over appointment letters to 10 teachers individually at Circuit House in Gorakhpur and congratulated all newly-appointed teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/role-of-basic-teachers-veryimportant-in-society-yogi/articleshow/79585415.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Shah, BJP trying to topple Raj govt again, says Gehlot||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday accused Union ministers Amit Shah and Dharmendra Pradhan of making fresh attempts to destabilise the Congress government in the state. Gehlot also opened past wounds by indirectly targeting former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who had sought a change of guard in the state in July. Gehlot claimed that Shah and Pradhan, along with BJP MP Syed Zafar Islam, recently met some Congress MLAs over tea and tried to convince them that the Congress government in Rajasthan could be toppled as was done in five other states. Narrating the alleged incident, Gehlot said, “The meeting lasted an hour. The MLAs told me they felt ashamed that the Union home minister’s post was once donned by Sardar Patel but now it was being held by Shah, who was offering us sweets and namkeen. Dharmendra Pradhan was ‘acting’ as if talking to Supreme Court and high court judges to ‘encourage’ the MLAs.” “They (BJP leaders) tried to make us feel that it was a matter of pride for him (Shah) that five state governments have been toppled and the sixth one might be toppled too,” Gehlot added. “Now we get to hear that the next turn is that of Maharashtra,” said Gehlot. The CM made the charges while addressing an inauguration function of a Congress office in Sirohi district. Gehlot asked Congressmen to be cautious of the BJP that was conspiring to topple state governments using money and muscle power. Reacting to the statement by Gehlot accusing Shah of plotting to topple the Congress government, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria called it absurd and said that they have been telling Gehlot not to blame others for the differences within his party. “The differences among the top Congress leaders is known to all. They never attempted to bury the hatchet. Now, the CM is yet again passing the blame on the BJP for the threat they have from their own leaders,” said Kataria. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore said that the internal fight in Congress is so intense that revolt can take place anytime. “Gehlot’s statement is an attempt to suppress the dissent in his party to divert the attention of people. These allegations are baseless. It is the duty of the chief minister to run the government for five years. However, it is evident that they have failed on all fronts and instead of improving their performance, they are busy blaming others,” said Rathore. Earlier, while addressing Congress workers, Gehlot credited party leaders Ajay Maken, Randeep Singh Surjewala, KC Venugopal and Avinash Pande for foiling the revolt in July-August. “Our government could be saved only because of the decisions they took, like suspending our own leaders,” Gehlot said in a veiled attack on Pilot, who was removed as deputy CM as well as PCC chief. Pilot’s loyal ministers Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena too were sacked during the revolt. Taking another dig at Pilot without naming him, Gehlot said, “There are two kinds of leaders in a political party. Ones who rise through the party organization and occupy positions of power in government, while others directly occupy positions in government without having an experience of the party organisation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shah-bjp-trying-to-topple-raj-govt-again-says-gehlot/articleshow/79587018.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Active cases on the rise in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the Nilgiris rose to 206 on Saturday, when it recorded 27 new cases.While Ooty reported five cases, Gudalur saw six cases. The remaining new cases were reported from Coonoor and Kotagiri blocks. According to health officials, most of the new cases were reported from rural areas in the district.While the Covid-19 tally touched 7,560, the number of recovered patients went up to 7,312 on the day with 19 patients getting discharged from treatment centres. The recovery rate has dropped marginally to 96.7% in the district. Of the 206 active cases, nine are admitted to the government facilities in Coimbatore and another 23 to the private hospitals in the city. At least 57 patients are in home quarantine and the remaining are undergoing treatment at the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur and two Covid care centres in the district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-cases-on-the-rise-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79585996.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Convince farmer bodies to call off stir, CM Yogi Adityanath to officials||LUCKNOW: Ahead of Bharat Bandh call on December 8 by farmers protesting against farm legislations, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officials to establish contact with various associations across the state and convince them to call off the stir. During a review meeting of various departments, the CM said the government was working for the benefit of farmers and officials should ensure that the message was spread far and wide. “Farmers are being paid minimum support price in Uttar Pradesh and it is being ensured that seeds, fertiliser and irrigation facilities are made available to them,” the CM said. He asked officials to start work for production of CNG from dung as a means to increase farmers’ income. “For cow shelters where there are more than 1,000 cattle, officials must talk to Indian Oil Corporation to set up CNG plants,” he added. The CM asked divisional commissioners, district magistrates and senior police officials to maintain strict vigil as protests have been announced from December 6-8. “Special vigilance must be maintained during these three days. Continuous patrolling must be carried out,” he said. In view of cold weather, Yogi said public representatives should distribute blankets throughout the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/convince-farmer-bodies-to-call-off-stir-cm-to-officials/articleshow/79587149.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kochi||Kottayam: Here, election campaign takes a caricature turn||KOTTAYAM: It’s not easy to throw the notice of this candidate into the dustbin, rather one will keep it for ever. This is due to the unique way of election campaign by C G Deepu, the BJP candidate from Ward 1 of Ramapuram panchayat. As Deepu seeks votes, his friend Sanish Divakaran draws the caricature of the voter in a couple of minutes and hands over to the person. The thick high-quality paper has the election manifesto of Deepu written on one side and on the other side below the caricature the name and the symbol of the candidate is also given. Deepu says that the campaign method has been a big hit with the voters. “People of all ages have welcomed this. They will also keep my election notice for ever,” he said. His friend Sanish, who runs a caricature shop in Muvattupuzha, has been drawing an average of 50-60 caricatures a day. “The caricatures are drawn in such a way that the voter gets a pleasant feeling. It may take two-three minutes for me to draw and the candidate makes sure that he spends that much time with the voter maintaining social distance,” Sanish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/here-election-campaign-takes-a-caricature-turn/articleshow/79585124.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
December 6, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Firm booked for forging bills during Kumbh 2019||PRAYAGRAJ: An FIR has been registered at Daraganj police station against the prominent city firm Lalloo Ji and Sons for allegedly trying to defraud the Uttar Pradesh government of Rs 109.85 crore by submitting forged bills for goods provided during Kumbh 2019. The FIR has been lodged against the firm and 11 partners on the complaint submitted by the then additional Kumbh Mela Adhikari Dayanand Prasad, said station house officer (SHO) J P Shahi. The firm has been providing tents, furniture and loudspeakers for Mahakumbh, Kumbh and Magh Mela for decades. The complaint claimed that the Prayagraj Mela Authority had to set up the biggest non-permanent tent city of the country for Kumbh. For this, the firm was given the contract for tents, tin sheets and furniture. The firm submitted bills worth Rs 196.24 crore between February 2017 and July 6, 2019. However, scrutiny showed that only bills of Rs 86.38 crore were real, while others were forged. Kumbh Mela Adhikari, Prayagraj Mela Authority, Vijay Kiran Anand, said, “The firm had raised fake bills worth crores.” He said: “If payments made to the firm from all departments are taken into account, it has been paid around Rs 171 crore. But it still resorted to such an act.” The firm has also moved for arbitration court over the issue and presented documents that also contain fake signatures of our officials, he added. Anand said the firm has also been blacklisted by the Prayagraj Mela Authority for the next five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/firm-booked-for-forging-bills-during-kumbh-2019/articleshow/79585311.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Allahabad||3 criminals arrested after brief encounter||PRAYAGRAJ: Police arrested three criminals after a brief encounter near a new vegetable market in Meja in trans-Yamuna area on Saturday. One of the criminals sustained gunshot injury while trying to escape. Police have recovered stolen jewellery, two country-made weapons, live bullets, car and a moped bike from the arrested criminals. Three other criminals managed to escape, said police. SP (Crime) Ashutosh Mishra said that sleuths of the Crime Branch and Meja police were on alert after receiving a tip off regarding some criminals being active in the area with an aim to commit a crime. After spotting the criminals, the policemen ordered them to stop but they tried to escape the scene after firing at the police. In retaliatory firing by the police, one criminal who was trying to escape on a moped sustained a gunshot injury on his leg and fell on the road. The other two trying to escape in a car were also nabbed. “The injured criminal was admitted at SRN Hospital while the other two were being questioned,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-criminals-arrested-after-brief-encounter/articleshow/79585359.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Constable killed in bike accident||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old police constable attached to the Dindigul armed reserve police died when he lost control of his motorcycle and rammed a steel gate at Singanallur on Saturday morning. The deceased was identified as A Arul Anand of Chinnalapatti in Dindigul district. “He was a bachelor and was working for the Greater Chennai police before he was transferred to the Dindigul armed reserve police. He had visited Coimbatore on Friday night to meet some friends. As he had to join duty on Saturday at 10am, he left Coimbatore on his motorcycle on Saturday morning. While passing through the Trichy Road around 6.45am, he lost control over the vehicle and crashed into the gate of a mobile tower at Singanallur. Though he was wearing a helmet, he suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot. The motorcycle was mangled,” an officer with the traffic investigation wing of the city police said. The body was handed over to the family after postmortem at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/constable-killed-in-bike-accident/articleshow/79585994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Allahabad||Cyber fraudsters use AU VC name to buy online gifts||PRAYAGRAJ: The first woman vice-chancellor of Allahabad University became a target of cyber fraudsters few days after taking charge as the new VC. The fraudsters used an email account in the name of AU VC Sangeeta Srivastava to buy online gifts. A police complaint was filed by the AU proctor on behalf of the vice-chancellor. According to reports, an email in the name of Sangeeta Srivastava was sent to the official account of AU registrar. In the message, AU registrar was asked to buy some gifts from an e-commerce website on behalf of the VC on urgent basis. The message said that the VC was currently in a meeting and didn’t have her bank cards to initiate the purchase herself. Upon receiving the email, AU registrar immediately informed the vice chancellor who instructed him to lodge an FIR in this connection. SHO Colonelganj Awan Kumar Dixit said an FIR will be lodged under the IT Act and other relevant sections of IPC. Further investigations would reveal how many persons have been sent the same message using the vice-chancellor’s name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cyber-fraudsters-use-au-vc-name-to-buy-online-gifts/articleshow/79585323.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Varanasi||Now, organic veggies from Kashi to debut in Oman by month-end||VARANASI: After Dubai and London, organic vegetables like chillies and bottle gourd grown by farmers in Varanasi and surrounding districts are likely to hit markets in Oman by December-end. Officials of Asyad, a logistics company owned by Oman government, and Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) on Saturday visited many farms to see the quality of vegetables which will be procured by Oman. Asyad has recently partnered with APEDA to facilitate import of fruits and vegetables for Oman’s local markets as well as for redistribution in the region. Talking about the partnership between Asyad and the agency, APEDA assistant general manager CB Singh said, “A delegation of Asyad officials was taken to the fields of Sevapuri and Badagaon blocks, so that they can see for themselves the vegetables being grown. They interacted with the cultivators and told them about their export requirements.” He said that the exercise is aimed at exploring the export potential of organic vegetables produced by farm producers organisations (FPOs).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/now-organic-veggies-from-kashi-to-debut-in-oman-by-month-end/articleshow/79585453.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Complainants not satisfied with district police probe can reach out to PHQ through video conference||Dehradun: The complainants, in important cases, unhappy with the police probe will now have the facility to approach the top police officers through video conference. Uttarakhand’s new DGP Ashok Kumar, who assumed charge recently after the retirement of AK Raturi on November 30, said that such people earlier came to police headquarters with their complaints. “This took a long time as the complaints at times had to cover long distances,” the DGP said. From January 1, an hour’s time would be kept reserved on each Friday to hear such grievances through video conferencing. Kumar said that senior police officers, including himself, IG Law and Order, and senior police officer from district concerned would hear the version of the complainant and also the probe officers on each Friday from 12 noon to 1 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/complainants-not-satisfied-with-district-police-probe-can-reach-out-to-phq-through-video-conference/articleshow/79585116.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Stalin dares Palaniswami to accept debate challenge ‘if he is a man’||Salem: DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday dared chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to accept the party deputy general secretary Raja’s challenge to face him in an open debate on who was corrupt and the 2G spectrum allocation issue “if he was a man”. Referring to the 2G scam, Palaniswami, during his visit to Salem a few days ago, had said “the DMK had looted Rs1.76 lakh crore and its corruption was equal to the state budget.”Subsequently, Raja had posed the challenge and given the chief minister three days to accept the same. Addressing the farmers and party carders on SRP Grounds at Kadasraman on the outskirts of Salem during an agitation to oppose the Union government’s farm laws, Stalin warned the state government of continuing the protests if it didn’t release the DMK cadres who were arrested just to prevent them from participating the agitation.The DMK chief also appealed police officials to release the DMK cadres as the agitation was held to support the farmers, who were providing them food.Stalin lambasted prime minister Narendra Modi for bringing in the farm acts without getting any consent from the opposition parties that too during the lockdown. Referring to the farmers’ protests in New Delhi, he said they were waging a war against the BJP government and would hopefully emerge victorious.Taking a dig at Modi for describing himself a son of a poor mother, the DMK chief said, “Being a poor mother’s son, he should not have betrayed other poor sons (farmers).” He then urged Modi to ensure that farmers were getting minimum support price for their produce that he had promised during a mann ki baat speech.Stalin said Palaniswami was betraying farmers while projecting himself as a farmer. “He is saying farmers won’t be affected by the new legislations. He should then highlight the benefits. While states such as Kerala, Punjab and Haryana had opposed the Centre’s move, Tamil Nadu government did not do anything.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-dares-palaniswami-to-accept-debate-challenge-if-he-is-a-man/articleshow/79585991.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Men caught drinking in public place attack cop||Coimbatore: Two men were arrested for trying to strangle and assault a policeman on duty on Friday night after he reprimanded them for consuming alcohol in a car on Cowley Brown Road at RS Puram.According to a police source, 40-year-old head constable V Ramesh came across the car that was parked on Cowley Brown Road with its engine running during his night rounds.“When he checked, he found two people were consuming alcohol inside it. He shouted at them for drinking in a public place. Already drunk, the duo caught the head constable by his neck and assaulted him. He immediately alerted the other cops in the area and they caught the two men before they could escape,” the source said.Police identified the accused as Arun Kumar, 29, of Teachers Colony and M Ganesan, 36, of Pappanaickenpalayam. The two were taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where tests confirmed that they were under the influence of alcohol. They were booked for causing public nuisance and preventing the police from carrying out their duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/men-caught-drinking-in-public-place-attack-cop/articleshow/79585997.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||BJP bags five of 10 MLC seats, SP wins Varanasi||LUCKNOW: After registering an impressive win in recently concluded bypolls, BJP continued its winning streak by bagging five of ten declared seats in MLC elections for teachers and graduate constituencies on Saturday. The party was ahead in one seat. Samajwadi Party has won three and Independents two. The five seats won by BJP candidates include Bareilly-Moradabad, Meerut, Lucknow divisions of teacher constituencies and Agra seat of the graduate constituency. The party also registered win on Meerut division graduate seat, while it was leading on Lucknow graduate seat. An Election Commission official said, winning candidates of graduate constituencies were Mavendra Pratap Singh, who won Agra division graduate seat with 31,062 votes. His nearest rival, Asim Yadav, mustered 27, 244 votes. Similarly, Samajwadi Party candidate Maan Singh Yadav won Allahabad-Jhansi division of graduate constituency with 23,093 votes, while his nearest competitor Yagdutt Sharma of BJP lost by 4,333 votes. In Varanasi too, Samajwadi Party candidate Ashutosh Sinha bagged the seat, polling 25,351 votes, while his BJP rival, Kedarnath Singh, got 22,685 votes. A total of 114 candidates were in the fray in five seats of the graduate constituency in Lucknow, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut and Allahabad-Jhansi divisions. Speaking to TOI, Yogeshwar Ram Mishra, additional chief election commissioner, said, “Counting at Lucknow division is still on. In Lucknow division graduate seat, BJP candidate Awanish Kumar Singh was leading by 2,746 votes over his nearest competitor Kanti Singh — sitting MLC graduate — in the eighth round. She was leading till the sixth round.” On Saturday, Bharatiya Janata Party won three teacher seats of Lucknow, Meerut, Bareilly-Moradabad division by a good margin, while two other seats of teacher Agra and Gorakhpur-Faizabad Teachers went to independent candidates. This is the first time, candidates for graduate and teachers constituencies have contested with a party affiliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-bags-four-of-9-mlc-seats-sp-wins-varanasi/articleshow/79587182.cms||Arvind Chauhan
December 6, 2020||Kanpur||Etawah farmers protest against farm laws at e-way||KANPUR: Extending their support to the ongoing protest against the newly introduced farm laws in Delhi and its borders, scores of farmers from Etawah gathered to stage a demonstration against the legislation on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Saturday. The farmers were protesting under the banners of ‘Uttar Pradesh Kisan Sabha’, ‘Kisan Pratirodh Sabha’ and other farmer organisations of Etawah’s Takha tehsil. They blocked Agra-Lucknow Expressway near channel number 124 in Khargua Kaua area on Saturday morning. The protesters first blocked the Agra-Lucknow lane and then stopped the vehicles coming from Agra. The protest brought traffic to a standstill on Lucknow-Agra lane. Later, police rushed to the spot and tries to pacify the agitators. Member of Uttar Pradesh Kisan Sabha Shyam Singh said, “The demonstration being held near Khargua -Kaua on the expressway was in solidarity with the farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. The Centre is only worried about Ambani and Adani and is working against the interests of poor farmers.” “The Centre should immediately withdraw the farm laws. It’s not a protest by farmers from only Punjab and Haryana, but from across the nation. These farmers are raising their voice against these laws, but the government is not paying any heed to their demands,” he added. As the protest led to a long queue of vehicles stuck in a jam on both lanes of the expressway, a team from Chaubia police and UPIEDA officials arrived at the spot and talked to the protesters. The queue of vehicles stretched for several kilometres. Traffic was allowed to move again after the farmers called off the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/etawah-farmers-protest-against-farm-laws-at-e-way/articleshow/79585496.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Chargesheet filed in dealer’s suicide||LUCKNOW: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) filed a chargesheet in the crusher dealer’s suicide case against suspended police inspector Devendra Shukla and two businessmen Brahmadutt and Suresh Soni on Saturday. The eight-page report has been submitted to a local court in Mahoba. The FIR was registered on September 11 by slain crusher dealer Indrakant Tripathi’s brother, who had accused suspended IPS officer Manilal Patidar, suspended SHO Kabrai Devendra Shukla, two other businessmen Suresh Soni and Bramhadutt, along with unidentified policemen of attempt to murder of his brother and other charges and also putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt to commit extortion. Investigation officer (IO), ASP crime Prayagraj, Ashutosh Mishra told TOI that suspended SHO Kabrai Devendra Shukla and crusher dealers Brahmadutt and Suresh Soni have been booked. Mishra said charges of attempt to murder were dropped and of abetment to suicide were added along with another section of prevention of corruption Act against Dutt and Soni. The officer said that the names of Patidar and Yadav were not added as their statements were yet to be recorded. Mishra has recommended registration of FIR against the absconding IPS officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chargesheet-filed-in-dealers-suicide/articleshow/79587160.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Do not seek any transfer for 2 years: CM to new teachers||LUCKNOW: In an interaction with newly appointed assistant teachers for primary schools on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that a primary school teacher was as important for a child as parents, because the teacher laid the foundation for proper development of the child. He also acknowledged the importance of having well-educated teachers as they would lead to strengthening of the country’s foundation. Congratulating Bhavna from Badaun, he said that her parents would be proud of her. “Your parents educated you and it is now your responsibility to use your training and skills for the growth and development of young children,” he said, addressing teachers. He similarly thanked the family of Lalita Tripathi from Hardoi for letting her study even though she was a girl and appreciated Tripathi’s commitment to the field of education for starting as a primary school teacher even though she has an MSc degree in chemistry. At least three of the candidates he interacted with on Saturday had a BSc degree while one had also completed her BEd, along with having done a basic training certificate course. The CM also warned the teachers against asking for transfers in the beginning of their careers, saying that nobody should be looking to move districts for at least two years. “Some of you are posted in districts which are not your home districts. I hope you will focus on your work there and not ask for transfers for at least two years,” he said, while speaking to Namita Singh from Gonda, who originally hails from Azamgarh. Yogi also encouraged the new appointees to continue their process of learning, saying that they should not act like frogs in a well. “Teachers should always try to learn and continue to upgrade skills and information. All of you have worked really hard to be here and I hope there will no longer be any need for any teacher to go on protest,” he said, referring to earlier protests by Shiksha Mitras, some of whom had taken the test and qualified to be appointed teachers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/do-not-seek-any-transfer-for-2-yrs-cm-to-new-teachers/articleshow/79587154.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Schools extend helping hand to parents in distress||Kolkata: As the deadline for de-rostering kids of defaulting parents from online classes and other facilities nears, schools are trying to find out different ways to help them to pay up the fees. The schools are offering more than the mandatory 20% waivers on tuition and sessions fees to parents who have suffered job loss, business closure or heavy salary deductions, if they are coming with documents to prove the distress. In almost every school, there are 20-25% parents who have not yet paid the fees. According to the High Court order of October 13, schools can start removing the wards of such defaulting parents from Tuesday (December 8). Schools say they are ready to accommodate any parent who is genuinely in distress as the intention is not to de-roster any student as long as possible. They also say that since many parents have chosen not to opt for the waiver and have paid in full, it is still possible to help out the parents in distress by offering a higher waiver. Many of these parents have not sought adjustments with future payments at 80% rate, schools said. In some schools, parents who approached with documents have been given waivers over 50%. In Birla High School and Sushila Birla Girls’ School, 24 parents had appealed for such waivers with proof. They have been given waivers to the tune of 50% and beyond. “We will continue with this. We want the remaining parents to communicate with us. We want to quell the atmosphere of mistrust that is brewing. We have already extended our deadline to December 31, so parents needn’t fear immediately about the de-rostering of their children,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson of the two schools. In Shri Shikshayatan School, about 25% parents are yet to pay up. The school has also started giving higher waiver percentages to the parents who have come with a proof of job loss, business closure or any other financial constraints. “De-rostering a child will be the last thing that we would like to do. We would explore every option to encourage parents to pay up and those with proof of distress, are being given higher concession,” said Bratati Bhattacharya, spokesperson of Shri Shikshayatan School. On Sunday, South Point School and MP Birla Foundation will make special announcements for defaulting parents about payment options and help that the school is likely to extend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-extend-helping-hand-to-parents-in-distress/articleshow/79586001.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Woman from minority community alleges discrimination, notice sent to directorate of industries||Dehradun: After a woman employee from the minority community alleged that she faced discrimination at her workplace, the Uttarakhand Minority Commission on Saturday sent a notice to the directorate of industries, Uttarakhand, to give a suitable explanation to the allegations levelled by the complainant. According to the state minority comission, the complainant was posted at the Haridwar district office of the industries department where she allegedly faced discrimination and religious slurs from one of her senior woman colleague. The complainant has accused the colleague of molestation. She has also said that she was transferred to Kotdwar, Pauri Garhwal, using unethical means. The directorate of industries has been sent a notice after a probe report was submitted to the commission by Haridwar district administration. Meanwhile, the directorate of industries has been directed by the commission to summon the accused woman officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-from-minority-community-alleges-discrimination-notice-sent-to-directorate-of-industries/articleshow/79585121.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 6, 2020||Kochi||Customs quizzes Santhosh Eappen||Kochi: The Customs (preventive) probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case and the currency smuggling case on Saturday questioned MD of Unitac company Santhosh Eappen. Eappen arrived at the Customs office on Saturday morning and remained there till late in the day. According to sources, the questioning was in connection with the smuggling case in which Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, the former finance head of UAE Consulate taking out 1,90,000 US Dollar (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore approx.) to Cairo via Oman from Trivandrum airport. The smuggling was revealed in a statement given by gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, who further stated that she and another accused Sarith had accompanied Khaled till Oman and further they travelled to Dubai. In a statement given to ED, Eappen had admitted to have given a commission amount to Khaled as part of a construction project on behalf of the consulate. According to Eappen’s statement referred to in the ED’s primary final report, Khaled had demanded 20% of project cost as commission. He has given a statement that after signing the agreement with the UAE Consulate, Rs 7.5 crore was transferred to the bank account with Axis Bank, Vyttila branch, and Federal Bank, Vyttila branch. After receiving amount in bank accounts, Rs 3.8 crore in cash was withdrawn from the two accounts and converted part of the Indian currency into USD approximately 3,00,000 with the help of a bank official in Vyttila and the balance USD 1,00,000 with the help of a bank official in Karamana. As per the ED final report, the commission money in USD and Indian Rupees was placed in the back of the car of Khaled. Eappen had also stated that Rs 25,20,000 commission of the smuggling accused, including Sandeep, Sarith and Swapna was transferred to the bank account of Isomonk Trading Company. Meanwhile, Eappen told reporters that he had not bribed anyone but had only given the amount as a commission since he was a private contractor and businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-quizzes-santhosh-eappen/articleshow/79585132.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Health dept turns focus on bringing down death rate||Coimbatore: The district logged 137 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, even as 169 patients were discharged, bringing the number of active cases down to 932.While the district has recorded 49,430 Covid-19 cases so far, 47,881 have recovered at a recovery rate of 96.8%. The toll, meanwhile, went up by one to 617. While the overall death rate stands at 1.2%, in November it was 1.1%. In September, the state government had given the district administration a target to reduce the death rate to 1%.A senior health department official said, “We hope to maintain the death rate at 1% or less than it in December, so that it will be below 1% by January-end.” Both Salem and Trichy had managed to bring down the death rate to below 1% in November.Among the 55 Covid-19 deaths that the district recorded last month, 30.9% was from rural areas, where the number of cases was also high. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “While rural areas had accounted for only 10%-15% cases until August, in November those areas accounted for 25% cases. However, the number of cases in rural areas is still much lesser than that of the city corporation limits. Even if they record one death per 40 cases, the death rate and the number of deaths will look high.”Epidemiologists and public health experts have stressed on the need to create more awareness among the small clinics and family physicians in rural areas. “In rural areas, most people go to small neighbourhood clinics and family doctors, who often don’t recommend Covid-19 testing for mild symptoms. They land up in hospitals only when breathlessness begins,” said Dr K Kolandasamy, former director of public health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-dept-turns-focus-on-bringing-down-death-rate/articleshow/79585998.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Health dept turns focus on bringing down death rate||Coimbatore: The district logged 137 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, even as 169 patients were discharged, bringing the number of active cases down to 932.While the district has recorded 49,430 Covid-19 cases so far, 47,881 have recovered at a recovery rate of 96.8%. The toll, meanwhile, went up by one to 617. While the overall death rate stands at 1.2%, in November it was 1.1%. In September, the state government had given the district administration a target to reduce the death rate to 1%.A senior health department official said, “We hope to maintain the death rate at 1% or less than it in December, so that it will be below 1% by January-end.” Both Salem and Trichy had managed to bring down the death rate to below 1% in November.Among the 55 Covid-19 deaths that the district recorded last month, 30.9% was from rural areas, where the number of cases was also high. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “While rural areas had accounted for only 10%-15% cases until August, in November those areas accounted for 25% cases. However, the number of cases in rural areas is still much lesser than that of the city corporation limits. Even if they record one death per 40 cases, the death rate and the number of deaths will look high.”Epidemiologists and public health experts have stressed on the need to create more awareness among the small clinics and family physicians in rural areas. “In rural areas, most people go to small neighbourhood clinics and family doctors, who often don’t recommend Covid-19 testing for mild symptoms. They land up in hospitals only when breathlessness begins,” said Dr K Kolandasamy, former director of public health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-dept-turns-focus-on-bringing-down-death-rate/articleshow/79585999.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Man convicted in 2 Pocso cases escapes from GMCH||AURANGABAD: A 23-year-old convicted in two different cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act escaped from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where he had been admitted since the past three days. The convict has been identified as Kishor Avhad of Rajnagar in the Mukundwadi area of Aurangabad city. He escaped from the hospital premises at 8.30 am, said the authorities. When contacted, DIG (prisons) Yogesh Desai said, “We have registered an offence against the convict and an inquiry has been ordered against the prison guards on duty at the time of incident.” The officer said that based on the findings, appropriate action would be initiated. As per police records, the first offence of molestation and Pocso was registered against Avhad with the Cantonment police station while the second offence for similar charges was registered at the Jawaharnagar police station. Both the offences were registered in 2019. Taking cognizance of the nature of offences, chargesheets were filed within the stipulated time and a fast track trial was carried out. In the first offence, the special Pocso court had convicted Avhad on December 31, 2019, and sentenced him to four-year imprisonment while in the second offence, he was convicted by the sessions court on February 4 this year for a period of three years. Late on Thursday night, Avhad complained of severe stomach ache, following which the medical officer on duty referred him to the GMCH. He was admitted and was undergoing different tests for ascertaining the cause of stomach ache. Aurangabad central prison superintendent Jayant Naik, citing the preliminary reports, said that on Saturday morning, the security guard on duty had gone to collect the CT scan report after handcuffing the convict to his bed in ward number 18. Being too slim, the convict managed to removed his hand from the handcuff before fleeing. The incident came to light only when the prison guard returned to the ward. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-convicted-in-2-pocso-cases-escapes-from-gmch/articleshow/79584623.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 80,000 tests, Covid positivity rate still dips||NEW DELHI: The national capital recorded 3,419 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday with over 80,000 tests being conducted for the second day, even as the positivity rate further dipped to 4.2%. The positivity rate on Thursday and Friday was 4.96% and 4.78% respectively. If the Covid-19 positivity rate in the national capital stays below 4% for five consecutive days, it would mean Delhi has been successful in combating the pandemic, health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Friday. He also said it was due to the “aggressive testing and contact-tracing” that Delhi has been able to achieve what it has in its fight against Covid-19. In the last 24 hours, the state health department said, a record 81,473 tests were conducted, including 35,352 RT-PCR tests. Meanwhile, 77 fatalities were recorded, pushing the death toll to 9,574. Decline in new cases has led to reduction in active cases and demand for beds, Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, said. Government data shows 12,385 Covid-19 beds out of total 18,843 are lying vacant across the state at present. The availability of ICU beds, which had reduced to about 10% in mid-November, has gone up to 47%. The tally of active cases on Saturday dropped to 26,678 from 28,252 the previous day. The bulletin said the total number of cases has climbed to 5,89,544. Delhi government has been chalking out plans for mass vaccination, once the Covid-19 vaccine is available. Officials said they have enough resources for storage of Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi and mohalla clinics, polyclinics, dispensaries and hospitals will facilitate the application. “For people who have already recovered from Covid-19, their body has produced antibodies naturally so they do not need to be vaccinated in the first phase,” said an official. According to the state health minister, once the vaccine is handed over by the Centre, the city government can “roll it out to the entire population of Delhi in a few weeks”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/80k-tests-covid-positivity-rate-still-dips/articleshow/79586005.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Millennium Park eyes Christmas reopening||Kolkata: Millennium Park on the banks of the Hooghly — that was closed in March after the nation-wide lockdown — may be reopened before Christmas. The park, maintained by the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA), is going through an overhaul as it was also damaged during Cyclone Amphan. KMDA officials said the park will be reopened after the authorities receive green signal from the urban development department. “The park that was badly damaged by Amphan has been without maintenance as it has remained closed since March this year due to the pandemic. The entire premises is now being cleaned and sanitized. We are waiting for the government order regarding the reopening of the park,” said a KMDA official. Officials said the children’s corner, food stalls, leisure zones inside the park, which were affected by the cyclone, are being refurbished. The park will have a new look once it is reopened with new slides and swings in the children’s corner and other decorative items. Besides, there will be CCTV surveillance on the movement of people inside the park. Many people are waiting for the park to be reopened soon. Not knowing about the closure of the park, some of the visitors went there, only to find the gates were closed. “As Eco Park in New Town and some other parks in the city reopened, we thought that Millennium Park has also reopened. I went with my family only to be disappointed on seeing the gates were closed,” said Manashi Kar, a resident of Tollygunge. KMDA looks after several parks and green open spaces across the city, the most prominent among them being Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar and the Millennium Park. Both the lakes have been opened in two shifts and will be opened fully for the entire day soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/millennium-park-eyes-christmas-reopening/articleshow/79586008.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Abdullah Azam Khan’s son told to to deposit Rs 65 lakh of pay & allowances||LUCKNOW: In an unprecedented move, the state government on Saturday slapped a notice for recovery of salary and allowances of Rs 65 lakh from disqualified Samajwadi Party MLA Abdullah Azam Khan, son of SP veteran Mohammed Azam Khan. An official spokesman of UP assembly confirmed to TOI that the law department had given its nod to the move. Woes of the father-son duo are brimming over with both languishing in prison with multiple criminal charges against them and no hope of immediate relief. Abdullah, who made his debut in the state assembly was disqualified, following conviction in a forgery case in which he fudged his birth date to become eligible to contest. The high court set aside his election in December 2019 and later disqualified him from membership of the assembly in January 2020. Some of his political opponents had petitioned the Speaker that the government should recover salary and allowances of Abdullah Khan for the period he enjoyed membership of the House. The Speaker’s secretariat slapped a notice on Abdullah Azam, directing him to deposit Rs 65 lakh after seeking opinion from the law department. This is first case in Uttar Pradesh in which the salary and allowances of a disqualified member of the House was being recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-slaps-recovery-of-pay-allowances-of-rs-65l-from-disqualified-sp-mla-abdullah-azam/articleshow/79587205.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 6, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon police step up patrolling||Nashik: Two incidents of people found with sharp weapons and firearms this week has prompted the Nashik rural police to step up patrolling in Malegaon. Additional SP of Malegaon Chandrakant Khandvi said, “It was decided to increase patrolling after 40 swords were recovered from three criminal elements. We are also conducting surprise nakabandis at various locations in the textile town to check movement of suspicious people.” On Tuesday night, the Nashik rural police arrested three people and recovered the swords from an autorickshaw. The police had received a tip-off about the sharp weapons arriving into Malegaon by a vehicle. Then, a trap was laid and three people were arrested in the case. Khandvi said, “The main suspect in the case is still at large. As a result, we are yet to ascertain from where the swords were procured and for what purpose.” Meanwhile, on Friday night, a person was fired at by three people in Malegaon over a minor altercation in the Roshnabad area. Though no one was hurt in the firing, the Azadnagar police arrested the trio for attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-police-step-up-patrolling/articleshow/79584628.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath launches Mission Rozgar, takes a dig at those creating legal hurdles in education||LUCKNOW: Handing over appointment letters to 36,590 assistant teachers for primary schools at the launch of the Mission Rozgar programme on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the appointment process could have been completed a year-and-half ago had some people with “no knowledge of the education system not challenged the process in court”. Flagging off his ambitious campaign to generate 50 lakh employment opportunities by end of current financial year, the CM said, “We completed the selection process in January 2019, but some people went to court and the matter was taken up by high court and Supreme Court. Now, both courts have agreed that our selection process was appropriate after which we were finally able to complete the procedure,” the CM said. “These people do not want improvement in education system and make an issue out of everything. One person goes to a school to witness mid-day meal and distributes ‘roti and salt’ and videographs it to create negativity. Another person inspects every yarn in a sweater to see if it is wool or something else. They have so much time at hand,” he said. Over 28,000 women teachers have appointed till date since the first batch of 31,277 assistant teachers were issued appointment letters on October 16. “It was important for us to complete the recruitment process in a transparent manner because there are 1.58 lakh primary schools in the state. If we want to compete in any sector at an international level, we will fail unless our education system is robust,” Yogi said. Asking newly-appointed teachers to become a vehicle of change, the CM said some of them would have to teach in rural areas where there was shortage of teachers and it was up to them to provide an environment conducive to learning. In a word of advice to teachers, Yogi said: “It should be ensured that children attend school on their own and are not forced. If you scold them, they won’t turn up. Many children have parents who have no formal education. Teachers will have to be sensitive to their background and simplify courses so that they enjoy learning.” He stressed on the need for refresher courses for teachers, saying they need to keep abreast of developments in education and information. “Once a teacher, always a teacher,” he said. “Under Operation Kayakalp, 50 lakh children had joined or returned to school in three years before the Covid-19 pandemic. The government distributed uniform, shoes, books and sweaters to children to encourage them to attend school. UP has 1.8 lakh students under the basic education department. Some states do not even have that much of population,” he said. “There is also the need to improve the condition of Basic Education Council, get rid of ‘paan’ stains on walls, clean up buildings and make working a pleasant experience for teachers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-launches-mission-rozgar-takes-a-dig-at-those-creating-legal-hurdles-in-education/articleshow/79587184.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Report on minister-IAS tussle handed over to chief secretary||Dehradun: After an extensive study, additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar has completed her probe in the matter relating to the allegations levelled against an IAS officer by Rekha Arya, minister of state for women and child development department, and has handed over the report to chief secretary Om Prakash. Earlier, she had submitted her report in the first week of November but the chief secretary had sought clarification on some issues which led to a delay in the process. While authorities are tight-lipped over the issue, the chief secretary said, “I have received the probe findings but am yet to go through the report. I will go through it and thereafter, the report will be handed over to the chief minister.” Earlier in September, Rekha Arya had alleged that IAS officer V Shanmugam was ignoring her calls and not meeting her. Following which, she wrote a letter to DIG Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi claiming that IAS officer V Shanmugam had gone missing and claimed that he “might have been kidnapped”. The allegations were made by the minister as the officer wasn’t responding to her calls or messages. However, the police team found that the IAS officer was in his house under self-isolation. He had taken leave for self isolation from his senior officer. Later, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had to intervene in the matter. Chief secretary Om Prakash gave the charge of probe into the matter to additional chief secretary Manisha Panwar. In the initial probe, it was found that the IAS officer was serving home isolation and he had taken leave for the purpose from his senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/report-on-minister-ias-tussle-handed-over-to-chief-secretary/articleshow/79585145.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||Babri demolition anniversary to be observed with a pledge to defend Kashi & Mathura mosques: Jilani||Ayodhya: Babri Masjid Action Committee (BMAC) will observe the 28th anniversary of Babri demolition on Sunday with a pledge to defend mosques of Kashi and Mathura. BMAC convener Zafaryab Jilani also advised Muslims to hold meetings in private places in adherence to Covid protocols and send a memorandum to the President and Chief Justice of India, seeking a revision plea against acquittal of Babri demolition accused. For over two decades, Babri Masjid Action Committee held protests against the demolition, send letters to President and Prime Minister for rebuilding the 16th century mosque and demand punishment for those who razed it. However, after the Supreme Court verdict in the Ayodhya title suit last year, BMAC changed tack this year and issued an advisory to the Muslim community to demand retrial of the Babri demolition accused and defend Kashi and Mathura mosques, which is being drawn into a legal battle.In his advisory, Jilani said, pressure should be mounted on CBI director to file an appeal in high court against the special court's September 30 judgment within the time limit. Talking to TOI, Jilani said, “We will file a revision petition this month in high court against acquittal of the Babri demolition accused on behalf of Muslims. We will retaliate in the event of any unlawful activity in the premises of mosques in Kashi and Mathura.” On Saturday, Ayodhya administration strengthened security in Ayodhya and issued instructions to citizens not to hold any programme on the anniversary of the Babri demolition. “We are keeping vigil and won’t allow anyone to hold protests on December 6. We will act against those who try to breach peace,” said Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/babri-demolition-anniversary-to-be-observed-with-a-pledge-to-defend-kashi-mathura-mosques-jilani/articleshow/79587211.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Containment zones breach 6,000 mark||New Delhi: In the last one month, 2,361 containment zones have been created in Delhi—highest in a month since the Covid pandemic broke out earlier this year. Containment zones on Saturday breached the 6,000 mark, with South West district having the highest number of sealed zones at 1,586, followed by South (864). East had the lowest number at 198. The number has spiked because of the third Covid wave during which the city witnessed up to 8,500 single-day Covid cases and creation of micro-containment zones for effective management of the sealed zones. Between November 5 and December 5, 2,361 new containment zones were created while between October 5 and November 5, only 977 new containment zones were created. Between September 5 and October 5, 1,731 new containment zones were created. In the last one month, record 78 fresh containment zones were created every day on average. Almost throughout November, Covid cases continued to rise with positivity rate touching as high as 15% in the middle of the month before the daily Covid cases started coming down. The government increased the number of tests multiple times with the central government pitching with help. Delhi has been provided more laboratory capacity and testing infrastructure. The reduction in the RT-PCR test rates has also contributed to the growth in the number of tests. The containment zones are distributed among Delhi’s 11 districts – South West (1,586), South (864), West (537), New Delhi (284), Central (639), South East (824), North West (441), Shahdara (229), North (236), East (198) and North East (207). All the districts largely have same population patterns, but the distribution of containment zones is quite different among all of them. The number of people living within the containment zones has drastically come down due to micro-containment zones being created. The micro-containment zones are easier to monitor. “All individuals living within a containment zone are tested irrespective of whether they are symptomatic or asymptomatic,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/containment-zones-breach-6000-mark/articleshow/79586011.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Protest brews over naming RGCB facility after M S Golwalkar||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A day after Union minister for science and technology, Dr Harsh Vardhan said the second campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) would be named after RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar, protests have poured in from several quarters against the BJP government’s move. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala were among those who sent letters to central government in protest against naming the new facility of the institute after the RSS leader. In a letter addressed to Harsh Vardhan, Vijayan requested him to reconsider the Centre’s move to give the name of Golwalkar to the RGCB facility. “It’s a premier research institution and has been above political divides. RGCB which was initially run by the government and was handed over to the Government of India with the aim of developing it into a centre of international standards ...Keeping this in view, the government of Kerala is of the opinion that the campus be named after some eminent Indian scientist of international repute instead of the proposed name,” the letter said. Chennithala, in a letter sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asked the Union government to give the name of former PM Rajiv Gandhi, after whose name the institution was initially set up. Chennithala said it was paradoxical to name the new campus after former RSS chief who allegedly faced criticism for instigating several communal tensions, he said. MP Shashi Tharoor suggested that the new campus be named after Dr Palpu, renowned bacteriologist and social reformer who hailed from Travancore. However, BJP state spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan said bigotry was the only reason that prompted Congress and CPM leaders to find fault with the Centre’s decision. “Guruji Golwalkar is a towering RSS leader who gave invaluable contributions to revitalise Indian culture. It has to be noted that RSS has given valuable contributions to the country. PM Narendra Modi and President Ramnath Kovind rose to their ranks through RSS. The protest shows nothing, but intolerance,” he said. Meanwhile, CPM politburo member M A Baby said the move was an open challenge to secularism. He said that Golwalkar was an individual who tried to wreck the unity among people though RSS ideologies. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said the move was part of Narendra Modi government’s saffronization drive and part of hard Hindutva line. CPM acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the move to name the campus after Golwalkar, an ideologue of the RSS, is a political decision, in tune with its efforts to popularize communal symbols and would be opposed politically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/protest-brews-over-naming-rgcb-facility-after-golwalkar/articleshow/79585167.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Congress contradicts Sharad Pawar, says Rahul Gandhi is consistent||NEW DELHI: Congress on Saturday said Rahul Gandhi has been absolutely consistent in his politics of principles and his acceptance in the party is unquestioned, refuting the comments of NCP chief Sharad Pawar on the former Congress chief. Asked about the recent comment of ally Sharad Pawar who said there were questions about Rahul’s consistency, AICC general secretary (in-charge of Maharashtra) HK Patil said, “I don’t know in what context Pawar made the remarks about Rahul Gandhi. But Congress across cadres, from AICC to blocks, small and big leaders, all want Rahul to take charge of the party.” Patil said, “Be it GST, demonetisation, farmers’ issues, failure of the BJP government in Corona management, communal issues — Rahul is fighting consistently.” Senior Congress functionary and Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge said there were no questions about Rahul’s consistency. “Even Sharad Pawar was groomed by senior leaders of Congress. Rahul’s acceptance in Congress is absolute. When Barack Obama mentions Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in his memoirs, it means that they matter in Indian politics. Congress is a party that even supports its opponents on secular principles to keep RSS away because it (RSS) intends to decimate the poor. Pawar is a seasoned leader and he knows this,” Kharge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-contradicts-sharad-pawar-says-rahul-gandhi-is-consistent/articleshow/79587531.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||State sees 115 new infections, 1 death, 118 recoveries on Sat||Panaji: A 70-year-old man from Cuncolim having comorbidities succumbed to Covid-19 taking the mortality count to 688 on Saturday. The mortalities have dropped sharply since November, with a daily average of one or two deaths and nil casualties reported on some days. On Saturday, the state reported 115 fresh infections, taking the count of active cases to 1,387. Meanwhile, 118 recoveries were reported. As many as 93 patients opted for home isolation and 33 had to be hospitalised. Of this, about 10 patients have been admitted to Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim, that handles critical cases. While a majority of the Covid centres in North Goa have seen a drastic reduction in new infections, Porvorim is witnessing a marginal increase. On Saturday its count reached 113. In Panaji, eight more people, including the staffer of an off-shore casino tested positive, taking its caseload to 85. Two patients had to be shifted to a Covid care centre. Two cases were reported from Miramar of which one patient opted for home isolation while the other got admitted in a private hospital. In South Goa, Margao too saw its caseload rising to 125 while that of Ponda dropped to 90. In Vasco, another centre in South Goa with a high number of cases, has seen its tally remain below 100 since the past several weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees-115-new-infections-1-death-118-recoveries-on-sat/articleshow/79587041.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Two in Hingoli held with firearms||Aurangabad: Hingoli police have arrested two people for allegedly possessing firearms and live rounds. Police have also seized high-quality gunpowder, some pellets and a sharp-edged weapon. The cops suspect that the accused may have used all these articles to prepare home-made bullets. Superintendent of police Rakesh Kalasagar said the seizure was the result of a search carried out by the local crime branch of the district police on Friday. Sources said the police received a tip-off about the accused possessing firearms, including a pistol and a rifle. The weapons have been sent to forensic experts for ballistic tests to find out if they have been used to commit any crime or to hunt animals. Off late, Hingoli police have started paying surprise visits to the homes of people with criminal records, especially those involved in property offences.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-in-hingoli-held-with-firearms/articleshow/79584640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Nashik||50 people volunteer to clear Goda ghat of waste||NASHIK: Around 50 volunteers of Nashik Ploggers — an association of youngsters who collect waste from a particular area while jogging — took up a cleanliness drive at the Goda ghat on the banks of the Godavari river in Nashik city on Saturday to celebrate International Volunteer Day for Economic and Social Development. The members of the association — founded by Tejas Talware, a BBA student, in August 2019 — are mostly engaged in picking up plastic waste and bottles while out for jogging and hiking during the early hours of the day. The association has carried out cleanliness drives around the city in places like the Dugarwadi waterfalls, Bramhagiri hills, Pandavleni cave complex, Ramshej Fort and other tourist attractions on almost every Sunday. “We decided to change the venue for the cleanliness activity after our registration drive received an overwhelming response,” said Talware. The volunteers found glass, plastic, paper, idols and many other articles on the ghat which were collected and disposed off with the help of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC). Experts like Rajesh Pandit from Namami Goda Foundation and NMC officers briefed the youngsters about nature conservation. Talking about citizens who dispose garbage in public places, Talware said, “We are not using our energy to teach elders. We are appealing to the youth to clean up as they are the ones who can ask their parents to maintain cleanliness. The change is happening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/50-people-volunteer-to-clear-goda-ghat-of-waste/articleshow/79584637.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC grants surrender relief to businessman||NEW DELHI: In a special hearing on Saturday, Delhi high court put on hold surrender of a city businessman accused of money laundering by the Enforcement Directorate. Alive to the Covid-19 threat to undertrials, justice Manoj Ohri stepped in to grant relief after taking note that former Religare Enterprises Ltd (REL) CMD Sunil Godhwani is on interim bail since September 29 following Supreme Court’s mandate to decongest prisons. The court stayed Friday’s order by a trial court asking Godhwani to surrender within two days from December 4, in a money laundering case related to alleged misappropriation of funds at Religare Finvest Ltd (RFL). The trial court had said if Godhwani fails to surrender, ED should arrest him . However, in his appeal filed through advocate Rajat Katyal, Godhwani also cited Delhi High Court’s full bench directions extending interim bails of undertrials in view of the pandemic. Katyal also highlighted that even jail authorities had not opposed Godhwani’s plea yet the trial court went ahead and cancelled the bail, forcing his client to go back to jail. The high court, while staying the surrender order, also issued notice to ED and sought its stand on the appeal by December 17, the next date of hearing. According to the ED application in the trial court, Godhwani was granted interim bail for three weeks in September on account of his father-in-law’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-grants-surrender-relief-to-businessman/articleshow/79586040.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctor asks for 10% kickback to pass CIMS’ Rs 1.5 crore Covid bills, booked||AHMEDABAD: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Saturday booked a doctor, Naresh Malhotra of Aditya Hospital in Bhuyangdev, for allegedly demanding a 10% commission to get bills of approximately Rs 1.5 crore of CIMS Hospital passed. The bills were to be passed for treatment of Covid-19 patients allegedly on behalf of deputy municipal health officer Dr Arvind Patel. According to ACB officials, according to the MoU between CIMS Hospital and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), bills for treatment of Covid-19 patients referred by the government must be sent to the AMC’s health department for clearance. According to ACB officials, the complainant, whose name has been withheld to protect identity, alleged that Malhotra asked for a 10% commission to get the bills passed, allegedly on behalf of deputy municipal health officer Dr Arvind Patel. “As the complainant did not want to pay the commission, he lodged a complaint with the ACB recently and submitted an audio recording, allegedly of Malhotra demanding commission on behalf of Arvind Patel,” said an ACB official. Director of ACB Keshav Kumar said that they have booked doctor Malhotra and will now probe the case with the help of forensic science to establish his role and gather scientific evidence. “Once Malhotra’s role becomes clear, we will proceed further in the case. We will also see whether any sort of commission was paid earlier by this hospital for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said a senior ACB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-asks-for-10-kickback-to-pass-cims-rs-1-5-cr-covid-bills-booked/articleshow/79586068.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC partially quashes JNU job ad for filling up reserved posts||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has quashed portions of Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) advertisements seeking to appoint a professor and associate professor, following a plea by some faculty members alleging illegalities in the procedure. The court directed the university to revisit the issue and work out the roster points afresh for filling up these two positions under challenge by the teachers and complete the exercise within three months. It was dealing with a plea filed on behalf of two assistant professors, affected by the recruitment process, and two professors, who challenged the legality of the procedure. The petition claimed that they were proposing to apply for the vacancies under the reserved category but JNU had converted one of the posts from Schedule Caste (SC) to Schedule Tribe (ST) category, while another post was de-reserved and converted to general seat. The other two petitioners are professors in the university and are not affected by the selection process pursuant to the advertisements, but have impleaded themselves in the plea only with the purpose of highlighting the alleged illegalities in filling up the reserved posts by the varsity. Justice Jyoti Singh said “it is open to the university to initiate a fresh recruitment process and advertise the two posts after the above exercise is completed.” The judge said that the burden to “prove that the reservation rosters were correctly recast, was on the university, which in my view, it has failed to discharge. Mere statements and denials that there has been no de-reservation or exchange of reservation points will not be enough for the university to rebut the data/ tables placed on record by the petitioners.” Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, representing the petitioner teachers, submitted that the appointments to the teaching posts in the universities have to follow the policy of “post-based reservation”, which mandates that specific teaching posts be designated or reserved for persons belonging to specific reserved categories such as SC, ST and other backward classes. The plea challenged the two advertisements issued by the varsity on August 19, 2019. It said the university published a statement on its website that there were 91 vacancies existing in SC/ST categories in the professor and associate professor cadre and against this only 57 have been advertised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-partially-quashes-jnu-job-ad-for-filling-up-reserved-posts/articleshow/79586045.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Last date for Manuu programmes extended||Hyderabad: Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU), directorate of distance education (DDE) extended the last date for admission to all its distance mode programmes, except for B.Ed., to December 22. Earlier, the last date was extended from November 25 to November 30. University Grants Commission has given nod to extend the last date of admissions for academic session 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/last-date-for-manuu-programmes-extended/articleshow/79587372.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Bareilly||Tension at Pilibhit village over illegal occupation of crematorium land||PILIBHIT: Tension prevails at Semarkhera village in Pilibhit Sadar tehsil after a pradhan of the neighbouring village panchayat forcibly took possession of two acres of land of the crematorium at gunpoint on November 28. On Saturday, Semarkhera pradhan Rani Devi accompanied by some villagers filed a written complaint with the SDM, seeking action in the matter. In her complaint, Rani Devi claimed that the crematorium land belonged to her village for the last 100 years. Shaligram, pradhan of Purani Pilibhit village, his son, Narendra Pal, and their accomplices came to her village on November 28. They threatened to shoot villagers if they dared to interfere. With the help of JCB machines, they excavated the crematorium land. Avinash Chandra Maurya, SDM, said he has directed the tehsildar of Pilibhit Sadar tehsil, Vivek Mishra, to make an on-the-spot inspection and review the status of the land concerned. The administration would ensure stringent action against the illegal possessors following his report, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tension-at-pilibhit-village-over-illegal-occupation-of-crematorium-land/articleshow/79584645.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Mathadi workers’ PF being siphoned off: Imtiaz Jaleel||Aurangabad: Alleging misappropriation of funds worth crores of rupees, Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel on Saturday demanded a high-level inquiry against the Mathadi Board, the labour commissioner’s office and the provident fund (PF) office.He said that despite the collection of 30% levy from each worker and labourer, none of the 10,000 families are getting the benefits assured and promised under the Maharashtra Mathadi, Hamal and Other Manual Workers’ (Regulation of Employment and welfare) Act, 1969.Citing information collected from labour commissioner’s office, Jaleel said that as per a resolution passed by the authorities, starting from May 2010, they would be mandatorily deducting 30% from the earnings of the workers registered with the Mathadi Board. Of the collected money, 12% is to be deposited in the worker’s PF account, gratuity (2%), Diwali bonus (6.3% ), paid leaves (0.6%), administrative expenses (6%) and some percentage for health insurance coverage and others.“Despite the 30% deductions being carried out religiously, the workers and their families have been deprived of all the things for the past decade,” the MP said.Alleging that he is being pressurized to not to rake up the issue, Jaleel said he has been informed that the money collected by the Mathadi Board often gets deposited as fixed deposits in the bank accounts of those heading the Board.Raising questions over the silence of the PF office and labour commissioner’s office, the MP alleged that they are complicit with the Mathadi Board members. He also pointed out that the last audit of the Board was carried out for the financial year 2017-18, when the Board had received about Rs 6. crore, out of which Rs 2.4 crore was spent on salaries of the staffers, Rs 3.3 crore on PF and others.He said that documents are being collected for lodging a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau and Aurangabad commissioner of police. He even threatened to file a writ petition. He also appealed to the workers registered with the Mathadi Board to come forward and contest for their rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mathadi-workers-pf-being-siphoned-off-imtiaz-jaleel/articleshow/79584653.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: BS Yediyurappa govt likely to table bills on love jihad, cow slaughter||BELAGAVI: The BJP government in the state is likely to table bills against “love jihad” (unlawful conversion for marriage) and cow slaughter in the upcoming winter session of the legislature from Monday, to push its Hindutva agenda ahead of the gram panchayat polls. “Many states have already brought in the bills. We are also in the process of bringing these bills,” deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said. The day-long executive committee meeting of the state BJP, held in Belagavi on Saturday, passed a resolution urging the Karnataka government to formulate or amend laws at the earliest to curb both cow slaughter and “love jihad”. The meeting was attended by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh and state president Nalin Kumar Kateel among other senior party functionaries. After the meeting, Kateel said the committee members discussed how Hindu women are allegedly being exploited and forced into conversion on the pretext of love and marriage. “We also discussed how some terror organisations use love jihad as a tool to convert innocent Hindu women. In view of this larger threat, the party resolved to request the state government to enact laws to stop this practice which is a social evil,” he said. ‘BJP won’t deviate from blanket ban promise’Amid criticism and protest from the Congress, state law minister JC Madhuswamy had earlier this week said the government has no plans to introduce a law against “love jihad”. Within days, home minister Basavaraj Bommai countered him. “We are now studying the ordinance of Uttar Pradesh as to how the law can be enacted to pass the legal test. The government is aware of the legal hurdles and we will frame laws keeping all these in mind,” he said. On cow slaughter, national general secretary CT Ravi said the BJP will never deviate from its promise of a blanket ban. “Hence, in this winter session, bills will be passed and sent to the governor for his assent to enact a law,” he said. The party also resolved to constitute a disciplinary committee and election committee ahead of the panchayat polls. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel will soon form these committees. The disciplinary committee will deal with motormouths and workers who violate the election code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bjp-wont-deviate-from-blanket-ban-promise/articleshow/79587589.cms||Shreyas HS
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Business owners to pay if clients don’t mask up||BENGALURU: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike will penalise owners of eateries and other business establishments if customers don’t wear masks or flout other health protocols. As per the order issued on Saturday, the penalties range from Rs 5,000 to Rs 1 lakh. The order comes amid fears of a possible second wave in the city over the coming weeks following a drop in compliance levels among people with regard to wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in public places. Epidemiologists believe these places are potential super-spreaders. BBMP penalties raise eyebrowsHowever, business establishments fear they’ll be subjected to harassment, especially when footfall has been low. “The Palike has not thought through the decision. Why should we pay a fine for someone’s fault?” said B Chandrashekar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association. He added: “Friends and families come to hotels to dine. How can we separate them? Such an order puts hotel owners in a difficult situation.” Hebbar said: “We have already incurred losses because of the lockdown. If BBMP starts penalising us, we’ll all have to protest against this.” Babu, chairman, Bangalore Street Vendors Association, said BBMP is using the opportunity to collect revenue. “We have suffered because of Covid-19 and imposing such heavy penalties will affect us a lot. We may have to take loans to survive,” Babu said. KV Chandrashekar, president, movie exhibitors association KFCC said BBMP should just shut down theatres, instead of creating such rules. “People may come to theatres and then remove masks. How can we monitor them closely? Penalising us is not right,” he said, adding, “As it is nobody is coming to watch movies. Let the civic administration shut us and we’ll surrender our licence.” Asked why BBMP is levying such penalties, commissioner Manjunatha Prasad said people have begun to disregard social distancing norms or mask use. “Marshals cannot be standing everywhere. Hotel owners, departmental store, commercial establishment owners should ensure everybody maintains social distance and wears masks,” Prasad said. Citing a recent visit to a mall, Prasad said he was shocked to see people in a clothing store without masks. “Mall owners want customers but they do not care about social distancing or masks. People will end up suffering,” he added. BBMP will soon have 250 more marshals in addition to the existing 540 to ensure stringent monitoring of distancing norms and mask use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-penalties-raise-eyebrows/articleshow/79587597.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani SP suspends 2 policemen for seeking bribe to help accused get bail||AURANGABAD: Parbhani superintendent of police Jayant Meena, after carrying out discreet investigations, has suspended two policemen on the charges of seeking bribe to help accused people get bail. Authorities said that in one of the cases, police sub-inspector Topaji Korke had allegedly demanded Rs 1.2 lakh to help five members of a family get bail in a case in which all of them had been named as accused. In the second case, the accused had surrendered himself at the Pathri police station in a bailable offence. Police constable Ramesh Munde had allegedly sought Rs 15, 000 from the accused to help him get bail on the same day. After the man agreed to pay Rs 15,000, the constable allegedly increased his demand to Rs 30,000. As the accused was unable to pay this increased amount, the constable allegedly kept him under illegal detention for the entire night. The accused obtained the bail the next day. In both cases, people reached out to the superintendent of police and lodged written complaints, following which a discreet probe was carried out against the two policemen. After finding substance to the allegations made against the policemen, Meena issued their suspension orders. Meena confirmed the development but refused to elaborate further. Sources said that soon after taking charge of Parbhani district, the SP came down heavily on all the illicit businesses in the district, apart from initiating strict action against policemen exceeding their limits and following corrupt practices. Authorities said that already Meena has internally shuffled the policemen, while warning the officers and constabulary on executive postings to avoid getting into anything that would tarnish the image of police department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-sp-suspends-2-policemen-for-seeking-bribe-to-help-accused-get-bail/articleshow/79584664.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 4 hurt in firing after brawl over FB post, none caught||NEW DELHI: Four people, including two minors and their fathers, sustained wounds due to firing after a 17-year-old boy, friend of one of the injured, commented on a Facebook post made by one of the accused. The incident took place on Friday night in Nangloi. On Thursday, one of the victim’s friends had written an objectionable comment on someone’s Facebook profile to which he objected and even later slapped him. The victim then intervened to save his friend. The firing incident on Friday was a result of that, police said. According to police, a call was received on Friday night about firing in C-Block, Raghubir Enclave near Nangloi Road. The caller told the cops that firing had occurred in the area and they needed immediate help. When the police officers reached the location, four persons had already been shifted to a hospital. The injured have been identified as Devi Dayal (48) and Satyawan (43) and their two minor children. One of the minor children was later referred to Safdarjung Hospital. According to police, on Thursday, one of the victim’s minor son had gone to eat momos with one of his friends. In the meantime, the friend posted a comment on Facebook on the profile of one of the accused men. The accused then reached near the shop where the victim along with one of his friends was standing. The accused then slapped the victim’s friend and the victim intervened to save him, which enraged the accused. On Friday night, he returned to their house and opened fire. Police suspect the recoil from bullets injured them. “The fathers of the victims are in government jobs. The accused came on a scooter and opened fire from a .12 bore weapon. We have registered a case and teams have been formed to nab the accused,” said a senior police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-hurt-in-firing-after-brawl-over-fb-post-none-caught/articleshow/79586067.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||Hotel body writes to Centre, requests for nod to charters||Panaji: A prominent industry body representing hotels and restaurants has written to the Union ministry of home affairs to reconsider its Unlock guidelines and permit charter flights to land in Goa. The Federation of Hotel and Restaurant Associations (FHRA) of India has also written to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal. In its letters, the FHRA pointed out that it’s still not too late to grant permission, and that business can be salvaged. It said that Dubai, South Africa, Kenya and Maldives have permitted foreign tourists to enter their countries after producing a Covid-19 negative certificate. In September, chief minister Pramod Sawant wrote to the MHA requesting it to permit charter flights, making a case that Goa’s hospitality industry is hugely dependent on charters“We are very concerned about the huge drop in occupancy of hotels and joblessness due to massive layoffs in the tourism sector, and even during the current post-pandemic period, we find there are several procedural delays by various government bodies hampering the landing of foreign flights into India...,” said FHRA vice-president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli in the letter. Goa is the only destination in the country which caters to foreign charters. This year, the director general of civil aviation (DGCA) has not accepted any applications on the grounds that MHA’s Unlock guidelines do not permit direct charters to land in Goa. Goa has been receiving charters since the 80s, and this is probably the first time that Goa’s tourism season is likely to be bereft of foreign tourists. On average, Goa received 36 charters from mid-October till March-April. Goa’s smaller hotels, which are dependent on charter tourists, are yet to open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hotel-body-writes-to-centre-requests-for-nod-to-charters/articleshow/79587060.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Training of IAF flight cadets, officers||Hyderabad: An inter squadron drill competition marked the culmination of competitions in the schedule of training of under-trainee officers and flight cadets of Air Force Academy, Dundigal. The commandant presented trophies to winners of various competitions. Chitnis Squadron bagged winner’s trophy for the inter squadron drill competition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/training-of-iaf-flight-cadets-officers/articleshow/79587378.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Man arrested for duping 3 of Rs 11 lakh in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: Juna Rajwada polie in Kolhapur arrested one Pushkaraj Sharadchandra Sawant on Friday for allegedly cheating three senior citizens of Rs 11.6 lakh by promising them attractive returns on their investment in mutual funds and shares. Mohan Krishnappa Bhandare (64), a retired employee, had lodged a police complain against Sawant. Besides Bhandare, two other senior citizens were also allegedly cheated by Sawant. All three had given the aforementioned sum of money to Sawant through a common friend in 2017. As per the complaint, while Bhandare gave Rs 2 lakh to Sawant, the other two gave the remaining amount. Sawant gave them receipts on receiving the amount. However, all of them later realized that they were not getting any returns on their investment. They consistently asked Sawant who failed to give a satisfactory explanation. At one stage, Sawant told them that he had used the amount and would return it after selling his residential flat. However, he did not give them the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-arrested-for-duping-3-of-rs-11l-in-kolhapur/articleshow/79584675.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Patna||Liquor worth Rs 125cr seized, 4k held in 2 months||PATNA: Over 3.9 lakh litres of liquor worth an estimated Rs 125 crore was seized by police and excise departments in less than two months after the model code of conduct for the state assembly polls came into effect on September 25. Altogether 4,148 people were arrested along with the liquors seized. In Patna alone, 130 people were arrested along with 6,763 litres of Indian made foreign alcohol and 13,032 litres of country liquor. The figures of the total number of arrests and seizure of alcohol after the model code of conduct came into force, were shared by the Election Commission. As per official data available with the EC, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, East Champaran and Bhojpur districts reported the majority of the seizures. The operation against liquor smugglers in the state intensified after the removal of the excise commissioner B. Karthikey Dhanji on the EC’s directive, sources in the department said. According to Krishna Kumar, the deputy commissioner of prohibition and excise department, the major share of the seizures was made by his department during the state assembly election. “Around 4,000 people were arrested and over 3.5 lakh litres of liquor were seized by the department alone,” he added. The consignments came in from states such as Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and also from neighbouring Nepal. “Of late, there have been instances of liquor smuggled into Bihar from the north-eastern states,” the deputy excise commissioner told this newspaper over the phone. Buxar, which shares its border with Uttar Pradesh, topped the list of districts with the highest 562 arrests. Madhubani, East Champaran and Bhojpur ranked second, third and fourth in the number of arrests. Amid a crackdown directed by CM Nitish Kumar, the senior excise official said now the conviction in these cases has started. “Special excise courts are operational in all the 38 districts of the state,” he added. On Saturday, a special excise court in Gopalganj issued warrants of arrest against three accused, including an SHO Ritesh Kumar Singh, in connection with a liquor smuggling case. The court headed by Luvkush Kumar also took cognisance against four other accused in the case lodged under different sections of the Bihar Excise and Prohibition (Amendment) Act 2016. Ritesh, a sub-inspector posted at Kuchaikote police station in Gopalganj district, along with four other police personnel and home guards, were charged with the sale of seized liquor from the ‘malkhana’ of the police station in August 2019. Investigating officer Santosh Kumar submitted the charge sheet in the court against them. Ritesh is still at large. His assets attached in Patna on the directive of the court, which later declared him an absconder. Two accused in the case Munna Kumar Rai (chowkidar) and Rahul Kumar Singh alias Sonu Singh surrendered in the court. “The police have sufficient evidence against the accused,” special public prosecutor (excise) Ravi Bhushan Srivastava told the court. The state police headquarters has already dismissed 85 police personnel and initiated disciplinary action against over 600 others for their failure to implement the prohibition law and also giving leverage to liquor smugglers despite the state declared ‘dry’ in April 2016. ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said action initiated against police personnel are irrespective of their ranks for dereliction of duty in a broader sense of the term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/liquor-worth-rs125cr-seized-4k-held-in-2-months/articleshow/79585135.cms||Ramashankar
December 6, 2020||Patna||Fog delays flights, irks flyers at Patna||PATNA: The densely foggy morning on Saturday in Patna severely impacted flights as many of them had to be rescheduled. With the visibility dropping to 400 meters, the city airport alerted passengers to check their flight timings with the respective airlines before leaving home. The foggy conditions in the city and across north India led to the delay of 12 flights, both inbound and departing at Patna airport till 8.30pm on Saturday. Altogether 44 flights currently operate from Patna airport under the revised winter schedule. The Patna airport on Saturday alerted passengers to check their flight timings to avoid unnecessary hassle and congestion during the security check. “Due to fog/poor visibility at Patna Airport, passengers are requested to check their flight status from respective airlines’ call centre/ customer services before starting the journey to airport (sic),” said a tweet posted by the airport handle. The delay, of more than 2 to 3 hours in some cases, irked passengers. No flights to and from Pune were diverted but the Delhi airport reported several delays. Priya Sharma, a management student, said she had to wait for three- and- half hours to board her flight from Patna to Bengaluru. “I have not received any message from the airlines regarding the delay or reschedule of flight. The airlines should have informed the passengers about the delay well in advance. The flight was scheduled to depart at 8.25 am but the departure took place at 11.50 am. Airline executives say that the flight was delayed due to bad weather in Patna,” she said. A flyer from Delhi, Kundan Kumar, wrote on Twitter: “Without any reason, my flight was delayed for 3 hours. Due to the delay, I suffered financial loss (sic).” Replying to the grievances of the flyers, the executives of SpiceJet tweeted, “The flight was delayed due to bad weather at Patna. We always try our best to maintain the departures as per the schedule. However, at times due to unavoidable reasons, we face delays (sic).” Another flyer SK Sinha, who also suffered delay said, “No Covid safety protocol has been maintained at the city airport. Instead of managing the passengers, chaotic situation has been witnessed inside the terminal building,” he said. Due to long-queues at checking points, one flyer Vikash Gupta had missed his flight for Delhi, even though the aircraft was delayed by two hours and 14 minutes. Between 7.45 am and 10.45 am, three flights of SpiceJet and two flights of GoAir to Delhi, Guwahati-Amritsar, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad were delayed by one hour to more than three hours. In the afternoon, three flights each to Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai from Patna were delayed by 30 to 40 minutes. The minimum required visibility of 1,000m for the landing of flights was reached before 10 am on Saturday. The first flight reached Patna airport from Delhi at 10.19 am of GoAir, which was scheduled to arrive at 8.05 am. Patna airport is handling aircraft movement from 7.45 am to 9.45 pm under the revised winter schedule. The early morning flights and late evening flights were withdrawn by the airlines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-delays-flights-irks-flyers-at-patna/articleshow/79585123.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sitting Gujarat HC judge succumbs to Covid-19||AHMEDABAD: A sitting judge of the Gujarat high court, Justice G R Udhwani, passed away due to Covid-19 on Saturday morning at a private hospital, days after he tested positive for Covid. Justice Udhwani is survived by his wife and two sons. He was 59 years old, HC officials said. Justice Udhwani tested Covid positive on November 19 and he was hospitalized on November 22 with severe lung infection. He was among three HC judges who tested Covid positive after the Diwali festival. Sources at the private hospital, where Justice Udhwani was admitted, told TOI, “He had Covid-related complications. He was treated in the ICU ever since his admission to the hospital. His condition aggravated and he died due to multi-organ failure.” Justice Udhwani began his career in judiciary as an officer of the state judiciary, and was elevated to the bench of the high court in 2012. Born in Ahmedabad in 1961, he obtained his law degree from a city college in 1986 and enrolled as an advocate with the bar council the next year. He practised law in the high court for 10 years before joining the judiciary as a sessions judge in Ahmedabad’s city civil court. He also worked as a special Pota judge in 2003. Justice Udhwani was appointed as a law officer in 2004 in the high court. The post he was holding was re-designated as registrar (legal). Three years later, he was repatriated to the state judiciary. In 2010, he was appointed as registrar (Infrastructure & Information Technology). He later discharged his duties as a registrar general of the high court. After more than a year, he was elevated to the HC bench in 2012. The high court has arranged a full court reference to express condolences on Monday morning, when all judges and the members of the Bar will participate online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sitting-hc-judge-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/79586114.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyd pharma college makes it to top 25 list||Hyderabad: GITAM school of pharmacy has been recognized as one of the 25 must watch pharmacy colleges in India by Higher Education Digest, India edition, a digital magazine. It was awarded a certificate of excellence. “The efforts undertaken to provide virtual classes to enhance knowledge and skills of students have been highly appreciated,” said G.S.Kumar, principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-pharma-college-makes-it-to-top-25-list/articleshow/79587386.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Kochi||Finance dept clears bills for luxury cars despite ban||Thiruvananthapuram: Within days of banning all new purchases of vehicles for government departments for one year, citing critical financial position of the state, the finance department has relaxed its order for granting permission for the purchase of a brand new Innova Crysta SUV for rural development commissioner. The finance department has also cleared the file for purchasing 10 Maruti Suzuki Dezire vehicles for subordinate judicial officers. The finance department issued an order last week sanctioning Rs 17.6 lakh for the purchase of an Innova Crysta, “in relaxation of the economy orders in force”. The 10 Dezire cars would cost around Rs 50 lakh. The decision came after the department had issued a detailed order on November 5, listing a series of measures for fiscal consolidation in the wake of critical financial situation of the state, especially due to Covid-19. As per finance department’s order for austerity, “adorning government buildings, purchasing furniture in government offices or organizations and purchase of vehicles will not be allowed for the next one year.” The Sunil Mani commission that was set up for ascertaining the financial situation of the state had given several recommendations for cutting wasteful expenditures. “Purchase of new vehicles should be limited to enforcement departments such as revenue, police, excise, forest, fire force, etc. A complete database of all vehicles being used by government departments, both owned and hired, needs to be prepared so that the size of the problem can be understood and addressed,” the commission had recommended. Based on these recommendations, the government decided to come up with several measures, including putting a ban on vehicle purchase, for the next one year. Even though it was not made mandatory, the latest decision is not in tune with the government’s electric vehicles policy. The government has in principle decided to phase out all vehicles running on fossil fuels and create a fresh fleet of green vehicles. To begin with, it was decided to replace all cars hired for government departments and department heads with electric cars. Interestingly, when the finance department overlooked its own order, there were other departments that decided to implement such austerity measures in letter and spirit. In 2018, when the financial situation had taken a similar beating and the finance department issued guidelines for streamlining expenditures, the law department had turned down a proposal to purchase a new Innova Crysta for state human rights commission chairman, who was newly-appointed then. Similarly, the motor vehicles department too had decided to lease more electric vehicles and stop the purchase of new vehicles running on fossil fuels. “Austerity is more on paper than in practice for government officials, especially in higher bureaucracy. In most cases, if demands for vehicles are not met, most of them will get it sanctioned through political masters who otherwise talk about cutting wasteful expenditures,” said a senior official in the general administration department. However, finance department sources justified the latest relaxation, citing that the order sanctioning the purchase was issued by the local self-government department (which is the administrative department) in September itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/finance-dept-clears-bills-for-luxury-cars-despite-ban/articleshow/79585189.cms||KP Saikiran
December 6, 2020||Nashik||10,000 health workers on NMC’s Covid vaccine list||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has firmed up a list of nearly 10,000 frontline workers who would be administered Covid-19 vaccine. The list includes the names of doctors, nurses and other health workers in the city who have been involved in dealing with and treating Covid patients over the past seven months. “We have prepared a list based on the names — of health care workers assigned to treat Covid-19 patients — provided by the authorities of nearly 80 private hospitals and our own civic hospitals,” said the NMC officials. According to civic officials, the consent of these frontline Covid warriors would be taken before they are administered the vaccine. “The state government will issue the guidelines for administering the vaccine once it is available. The vaccine would be administered to these workers in phases,” added officials. According to officials, the modalities of vaccine storage would be worked out once the state government informs the NMC about the kind of vaccine that it would be receiving. “We have made provisions for storing the vaccine at a temperature between 2 to 8 degrees celsius. But if the vaccine has to be stored at a temperature lower than that, then we will have work out the modalities,” added the civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10000-health-workers-on-nmcs-covid-vaccine-list/articleshow/79584706.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 596 Covid-19 cases as bed occupancy falls to 11 %||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday recorded 596 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, taking the total caseload to 2,72,719 and the toll to 1,470. While a total of 2,62,751 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection, the number of active cases in the state has now gone down to 8,498, bringing down the bed occupancy in the state to 11% now. The case fatality rate in the state is constant at 0.53%, while the recovery rate has improved slightly to over 96% now. On Friday, a total of 59,471 tests were conducted across the state, over half of which were conducted in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. With the tests conducted on Friday, the total count of tests conducted in the state so far has crossed 57.2 lakh now and Telangana has reached 1,53,739 tests per million population figure. Of the 596 new cases recorded in the state, 102 cases were recorded in the GHMC limits, 47 in Medchal Malkaigiri, 46 in Rangareddy, 36 in Karimanagar and 26 in Bhadradri Kothagudem. While seven districts recorded less than 10 new cases on Saturday, Narayanpet recorded no new cases for the third consecutive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-596-covid-19-cases-as-bed-occupancy-falls-to-11-/articleshow/79587069.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||Rules for appointments to CCP ward committees notified||Panaji: The urban development department notified rules for constituting ward committees for the City of Panaji Corporation (CCP) on Saturday. The high court had directed the government to notify rules for ward committees following complaints that appointments to these committees were being made according to whims and fancies of the CCP. The government had invited suggestions to the draft CCP (Ward Committee) Rules, 2020, on October 15, but didn’t receive any from the public. According to the notified rules, the members of non-government organisations working in the state must be staying in the jurisdiction of the ward and be enrolled in the electoral roll of the ward committee area to qualify for nomination. Activist Aires Rodrigues filed a petition in high court stating that most of the appointees do not fulfil the prescribed qualifications for appointments. The court in its order on August 31 made it clear that “constitution of ward committees must be in accordance with law, so that there is no occasion for any person to complain about such constitution”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rules-for-appointments-to-ccp-ward-committees-notified/articleshow/79587077.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra health varsity to hold MBBS exams from December 7||NASHIK: The Board of Examinations (BoE) of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) has given its nod to the varsity’s examination department to conduct the MBBS exams from December 7. The BoE meeting, chaired by varsity vice-chancellor Deelip Mhaisekar, was held on Friday. The board’s decision assumes significance as there has been a demand from a students’ outfit to postpone the first-year MBBS (2019 batch) and first-year MBBS supplementary examinations. A delegation of the organisation had recently met the VC. Speaking to TOI, varsity’s controller of examination Ajit Pathak said 6,612 students will appear for the exams. While the theory papers will be held up to December 18, the practicals will be from December 21 to January 11, 2021. “The exams will take place in the offline mode in 42 centres across the state. The question papers have reached the centres and hall ticket distribution has also been completed. All Covid safety protocols will be followed,” he added. According to Pathak, these exams were supposed to take place in September 2020. However, they were rescheduled due to the prevailing Covid situation. “The university had announced the new dates on September 30,” said Pathak. According to the university, any delay in these exams would further push back the students’ promotion to the second year. “If any student fails in the forthcoming exam, they will have to reappear for fresh supplementary examination that the university will have to organise within two months after declaring the results. The entire process would get delayed,” the MUHS officials said. According to Pathak, when the university had organised examinations earlier, many students had raised concerns due to Covid-19 crisis. “But we were able to conduct the exam smoothly. In fact, some students wrote back to us thanking the university,” said Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-health-varsity-to-hold-mbbs-exams-from-dec-7/articleshow/79584714.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Seven out of ten 18-year-olds have taken up jobs post lockdown, reveals survey||HYDERABAD: Post lockdown, more teenagers are said to be taking up work as seven of ten 18-year-olds are now working when compared to four out of ten before the lockdown was imposed, revealed a report. When it comes to 18-year-old girls, there is not much of a difference as three out of 10 girls are said to be working in the post-lockdown period compared to two of 10 girls who were working between March and April 2020. In a survey conducted by Young Lives India, in which 2,754 youngsters aged between 18 and 25 participated, it was also revealed that one in three students are currently unable to attend classes. “Many youngsters, especially 18-year-olds, have started working in the past few months. These students are enrolled in various courses, but are unable to attend colleges due to the digital divide and are instead working as agriculture or daily wage labourers,” said Renu Singh, country director, Young Lives India. While nearly 32% of the 25-year-old respondents and 46% of the 18-year-old respondents were self-employed before pandemic, it has now increased to 40% and 61%, read the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-out-of-ten-18-yr-olds-have-taken-up-jobs-post-lockdown-reveals-survey/articleshow/79587072.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Vetal Tekdi road dismantling work comes to sudden halt||PUNE: The Vetal Tekdi road dismantling work came to an abrupt halt on Saturday as the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) barred the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) workers and vehicles, including backhoe loader, from entering its premises. Access to the road built by MIT on the tekdi slope is through the institute’s premises. The MIT move caught the civic staffers by surprise as they had not sought police protection to force their entry. Sources said the civic staffers had not anticipated this action by the institute as the PMC vehicles were allowed on the MIT premises a day earlier. The staffers even carried out partial demolition of a section of the road on Friday. PMC’s city engineer Prashant Waghmare told TOI that he has called the institute’s office-bearers to discuss this issue on Monday. “We will take suitable action,” Waghmare said without elaborating on the action part. Another senior civic officer, who did not wish to be named, said the civic administration planned to seek help of police if the MIT continued with its stance of preventing the civic staffers from performing their duty. MIT registrar Mahesh Chopade, also the director of planning and development at MIT group, justified the institute’s stance and said, “We have sent a fresh application for building an internal road on the tekdi slope. We told the PMC on Saturday that we have already applied for the permissions.” Chopade said until there was a decision on the permission front, the PMC should not act on the issue. “We have told them that they should first decide on our application, that is, approving or rejecting the permission for the road. And, only then they should undertake further action. Before that, they should not resort to demolition of the road,” Chopade said. A senior civic official said the institute had sought the permission for road construction after the PMC issued notice seeking its demolition. When asked about the MIT’s argument that the civic body should first decide about its application seeking permission for the road construction, the officer said, “If a construction is allowed by law but a permission has not been sought beforehand, in those cases such construction can be regularised via payment of penalty. But that is only in case of constructions that are allowed by law and the issue is only about not seeking prior approval. In this case, the issue is not just about seeking prior permission. Making a road in hilltop hill slope zone is not allowed as per the law so the institute’s action cannot be regularised by way of applying for fresh permission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vetal-tekdi-road-dismantling-work-comes-to-sudden-halt/articleshow/79586118.cms||Neha Madaan
December 6, 2020||Goa||HC notice to govt over Parra as ‘planning area’||Panaji: A division bench of the high court of Bombay at Goa has issued notices to the state government over a petition challenging the inclusion of Parra village under the North Goa Planning and Development Authority (NGPDA). Four members of the Parra gram sabha petitioned the court seeking that a notification dated January 25, 2018 — which declared Parra as a planning area and brought it under the jurisdiction of NGPDA — be set aside. Following the decision to include Parra as a planning area, the NGPDA embarked on formulating the outline development plan for the village after publishing the land use register map. “This action is contrary to the 73rd Constitutional Amendment and to the provisions of the Goa Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, destructive of village level planning and compromises the petitioners’ constitutional rights to plan their own development,” the petition stated. “Neither the panchayat nor the gram sabha has been consulted about this takeover of the planning powers of the panchayat assigned to it under the Constitution of India,” the petition stated. “After the 73rd Constitutional Amendment Act ushered panchayati raj into the country and the Goa Panchayati Raj Act 1994, several villages that had been made a part of the planning areas under the TCP Act 1984 were consciously removed by a series of notifications from the jurisdiction of planning areas,” the petition further stated. The court ordered the petition to be placed on board on December 21. The petitioners include Claude Alvares, Casmiro Da Cunha, Agnelo Alphonso and Genevieve Saldanha e Fernandes. They stated that they have participated in several gram sabhas to discuss village land use and development plans, including the notified Regional Plan 2021 and are filing the petition to enforce their constitutional rights to plan their own development which has been recently trampled upon by the inclusion of their village in the planning area of NGPDA. The court directed notices to be issued to the state of Goa, panchayat of Parra, NGPDA, town and country planning board and director of panchayats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-notice-to-govt-over-parra-as-planning-area/articleshow/79587094.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Coimbatore||Charter service breaks eight-month hiatus of Nilgiri Mountain Railway||Udhagamandalam: After a gap of eight months, the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) conducted a charter service from Mettupalayam to Ooty on Saturday.Organized by Homemade Group-TN-43, a private firm, the special jolly trip will continue for another three days, on December 6, 12 and 13.The firm had remitted Rs 4,80,000 as security deposit to the Southern Railway. Ticket per head for a single trip costs Rs 3,000.The trip started from Mettupalayam at 7.30am and reached Ooty at 2.30pm. An X-class oil-fired engine lugged four coaches with a capacity of 160 seats.“The scenic beauty of the mountains and streams along the journey was breathtaking,” said L Kumar, a passenger.Asked about the exorbitant ticket charge for the 45km journey, he said it was acceptable as it is a trip of a lifetime.Meanwhile, Southern Railway officials are yet to decide when to resume regular NMR services, which were suspended on March 20, owing to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Presently, the entry to the Nilgiris has been relaxed and only e-registration is required to enter the tourist retreat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/charter-service-breaks-eight-month-hiatus-of-nilgiri-mountain-railway/articleshow/79585211.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Truck fire hits bypass traffic for 45 minutes||PUNE: Vehicular movement on Katraj–Dehu Road bypass, towards Kolhapur from Mumbai, was disrupted for nearly 45 minutes after a truck caught fire on Saturday evening on the Warje flyover. No one was injured in the incident. Warje police and fire brigade officials said that the truck, carrying food articles of a popular fast food chain, was gutted in the incident. The vehicular movement was restored around 6.30 pm. Senior police inspector Machindra Pandit of Warje police station said, “The truck was heading towards Kolhapur from Kalamboli. The driver of the truck pulled the truck to the left lane and managed to stop it. After alighting from the truck, he spotted fire beneath the driver’s cabin. “Within minutes, the flames engulfed the entire truck,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-fire-hits-bypass-traffic-for-45-minutes/articleshow/79586121.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cop who sexually exploited married woman absconding||JAISALMER: A constable, who physically exploited a woman for four years on the pretext of marriage, has been absconding. After the crime was proved, the SP suspended the constable but he ran away before he could be arrested. The complainant on Friday met the district SP and demanded justice and arrest of the culprit. Police constable Rewantaram while working in Chauhatan police station in Barmer kept a married woman with him for four years and kept exploiting her physically. When he got bored of her, he ran away. The victim told the media that Rewantaram had promised to marry her and get her a job. For four years, they lived together and in the meantime he also sold her jewellery. She had earlier lodged a case at woman police station but till now the culprit has not been arrested. On Friday, she met SP Anand Sharma and sought the accused's arrest. The SP said that the victim had lodged a case earlier against the constable. Some time back, she had given a compromise letter so final report was put in the case. But, later she again lodged a case saying that the compromise was made by pressurising her. Police investigated the case and when the crime was proved, the constable was suspended. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-who-sexually-exploited-married-woman-absconding/articleshow/79585207.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nashik||Man booked for illegally producing insecticides||Nashik: The MIDC Sinnar police have booked a person for cheating and under other sections of the IPC and the Insecticides Act, 1968, after a complaint was registered against him for illegally producing insecticides for sale. The complaint was registered by an officer of the district superintendent agriculture office. The accused was making insecticides under a certain brand name for sale without permission from government at his manufacturing unit in Musalgaon MIDC. The police found insecticides worth Rs 1.6 lakh there. The office of district superintendent of agriculture found that insecticide production without permission amounted to cheating the government and misleading the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-booked-for-illegally-producing-insecticides/articleshow/79584717.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Three die after SUV rams bike, hits residents at eatery||HYDERABAD: Three persons died after a SUV driver, suspected to be drunk, went on to hit a two-wheeler and later hit people seated at a road-side eatery at Badabheemgal, Nizamabad district. In a lucky escape, two children had left the place few seconds before. Nizamabad police said the SUV was driven by one Rakesh of Maharashtra, who hit the bike on which three persons were travelling, from behind. The bike was dragged for a few feet before the car veered to a side and hit customers at a road-side eatery. In the incident, Bhoomanna, 48, who was travelling on the bike died while undergoing treatment. Two customers of eatery – Bhoodevi (70) and Rajanna (70) died too. The car driver was taken into custody and police are still investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-die-after-suv-rams-bike-hits-residents-at-eatery/articleshow/79587074.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two arrested in abduction case, aide on the run||PUNE: The MIDC Bhosari police on Friday arrested two persons and a search was on for a third after a 26-year-old man alleged the trio abducted him and demanded a ransom of Rs20,000 from his brother on Thursday afternoon. As per the complaint lodged by Bhosari resident, Rajeshkumar Udaychand Yadav, the suspects let him go in the early hours of Friday after learning that neither he nor his brother had the money, police said. Acting on information provided by Yadav, the police swung into action and arrested the duo, Pintu Aniruddha Jadhav (24) and Javed Gulam Pathan (24), both residents of Balajinagar slum in Bhosari. Yadav works for a private company in the Bhosari MIDC area. He lost his cellphone in the Bhosari area on November 14. A few days prior to the incident, the suspects found the phone and charged it. They then restarted the phone and contacted Yadav, telling him to come and collect his cellphone at Quality Circle Chowk in Bhosari. When Yadav reached the spot at 4pm on Thursday, the trio shoved him into an autorickshaw and drove to an isolated spot near the slum pocket. They then contacted Yadav’s brother and told him to pay Rs20,000 against the release of his brother. “The trio soon realized that neither Yadav nor his brother had capacity to pay Rs20,000 and, in a fit of rage, thrashed Yadav with bamboo sticks and let him go,” a senior police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-arrested-in-abduction-case-aide-on-the-run/articleshow/79586122.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Soon, relaxation in academic norms for assistant professor posts||KOTA: The state’s higher education department on Friday initiated efforts to relieve thousands of aspirants, who were left ineligible for 918 posts of assistant professor to be recruited by Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) due to Good Academic Record (GAR) norms that require an average of at least 55% marks in three examinations proceeding to Master’s degree. “I have directed the secretary, higher education to coordinate with RPSC and to find out solution to relieve thousands of aspirants, who were left ineligible for the post of assistant professor, to be recruited by RPSC due to GAR norms,” state’s higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati told TOI on Saturday. The process to examine all norms and options to relieve these aspirants, who are reported to be in thousands in the state, is underway and through the examination of norms, it is apparent that relaxation can be given to these aspirants, the minister further said. Bhati added, “If required, the last date of submission of application would also be extended. While finding out the solution to give relief to these aspirants, it is also being kept in mind that these aspirants should not tangle in courts.” The RPSC last month released an official notification for recruitment for 918 vacancies for the post of assistant professor in various subjects in colleges across Rajasthan. The online application process for the vacant posts had begun on November 9, 2020 and will conclude on December 8. The convener of Rajiv Gandhi Study Circle in Kota, Dr Anuj Williams said the aspirants, left ineligible for the post of assistant professor due to GAR, can be given desired relief through ‘marking scheme’ as implemented by UGC in Bihar, where Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) invited the applicants for the 4,638 posts of assistant professor. GAR norms, as per UGC guideline, were applied only in interview and score of total marks obtained. Government should allow all the students in the exam and implement marking scheme of GAR on the lines of Bihar, Williams said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/soon-relaxation-in-academic-norms-for-asst-professor-posts/articleshow/79585209.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||34-year-old in net for forging loan papers||PUNE: The police on Friday arrested a 34-year-old man for forging loan documents in the name of a Thane-based grocer and trying to purchase a two-wheeler from a showroom in Sahakarnagar. The forgery came to light when the grocer, who was visiting Pune, got an SMS stating his loan application was accepted. He first alerted the bank and then approached the police. The suspect, Kirankumar Pednekar, was previously arrested for forging documents to purchase a smartphone. Pednekar has been remanded in police custody till December 9. He admitted under questioning to using the same method to buy five vehicles in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/34-year-old-in-net-for-forging-loan-papers/articleshow/79586124.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Water released into canal for supply to rural areas||PUNE: The state irrigation department has initiated water release from Khadakwasla dam into the Mutha canal to meet the drinking water requirements of rural areas in the district. The department has clarified that the water release for winter crops will likely begin after December 15, following the canal committee meeting. “We have started water release at a rate of 500 cusecs, which will continue for a few days till the drinking water demands of areas like Daund and Indapur are met,” an official from the irrigation department said. The department officials said they expected the canal committee meeting to be held in the next few days to finalize the schedule for water release for rabi crops and Pune city. “The city is unlikely to face any water supply issue as there is adequate stock in the four dams,” the official said. The four dams on Saturday had collective water stock of 27.5 TMC (94.4%) — 0.50 TMC more than last year’s stock during the same period. The storage in Khadakwasla on Saturday was at 66%, Temghar 79%, while Varasgaon and Panshet had 99% stock. The irrigation department has also prepared a list of encroached spots along the Mutha canal and will send the list to Pune Municipal Corporation for action. The department has also repaired the damage caused to the canal structure during the heavy rains this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-released-into-canal-for-supply-to-rural-areas/articleshow/79586148.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||HC orders CID probe into youth ‘murder’ for using pond||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court has ordered a CID-CB probe into the alleged killing of a youth for using a community pond at Bayana in Bharatpur.The court ordered the state director general of police to get the investigation conducted by a special team headed by an officer of the rank of additional superintendent of police of CID-CB branch. “The investigating officer shall collect evidence and conduct the investigation independent of what has been conducted by the earlier investigating officer and submit his report to the court within three months,” said the court.Sunil Kumar, petitioner, who is brother of the deceased Mahesh, filed petition alleging that the police have not conducted fair and impartial investigation of offence of murder of his brother. Petitioner said a complaint was filed at Police Station Rudawal by him on June 26, 2020. He alleged that on June 25 at about 5pm his brother Mahesh had gone to public water tank for bathing. But some youths belonging to another caste objected to and picked up quarrel with him.When his brother opposed, they abused him, attacked him and thereafter threw him in a well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-orders-cid-probe-into-youth-murder-for-using-pond/articleshow/79585213.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Four-year-old girl sodomised by minor cousin in Alwar||JAIPUR: A four-year-old girl was sodomised in Alwar’s Thanagazi allegedly by her cousin, who is also a minor, on Friday. The girl was admitted to the hospital and is undergoing treatment, while the accused has been detained. The minor boy has been booked for sodomy. The incident happened when the accused was alone at home with the child. The case was registered under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences) and the POCSO act. Alwar SP Tejaswani Gautam said, “When the 17-year-old accused was alone at home with the girl on Friday, he sodomised her and when the mother returned home to find the child bleeding, she was immediately taken to the hospital following which the staff informed the local police station and we went there to take their statement.” According to the officials, as the girl is very young, she is unable to give many details but the mother claimed that while her husband was away at work, she had also gone to the field leaving the girl under the care of the accused. When she returned home, the child was bleeding and told her mother somewhat about what had transpired. The accused is the survivor’s cousin. The girl’s statement under CrPC section were recorded and the accused would be questioned. Alwar and Bhiwadi regions have become infamous for rape especially of minors and recently a 17-year-old girl, who became pregnant after being raped, died at a government hospital on Tuesday after attempting illegal abortion. On Monday, she was taken to a private nurse for abortion which, according to police, may have proved fatal. Mahila thana police of Bhiwadi in Alwar arrested a 25-year-old man for the rape and murder of the girl on Thursday as well as a 36-year-old nurse for illegal termination of pregnancy. The minor was staying in a rented accommodation in Alwar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-yr-old-girl-sodomised-by-minor-cousin-in-alwar/articleshow/79585223.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Youth cuffed for stealing 5 motorcycles in Pune||PUNE: The Dattawadi police on Friday arrested a 20-year-old youth for stealing five motorcycles for joy rides. A police team led by sub-inspector Swapnil Lohar caught the suspect, Saurabh Chorge from Ambegaon Pathar, while he was waiting with a stolen motorcycle near Vasantrao Bagul garden in Shivdarshan. “During questioning, Chorge admitted to stealing five motorcycles and taking them on joyrides. Chorge would abandon the motorcycles after they ran out of petrol,” senior inspector Ram Rajmane said on Saturday. The police have recovered all the two-wheelers from various places across the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-cuffed-for-stealing-5-motorcycles/articleshow/79586153.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||55-year-old woman found murdered in Jaisalmer district||JAISALMER: A 55-year-old woman was murdered by unidentified persons in Jhinjhinyali area of Jaisalmer district on Saturday. The woman was staying alone in the house. According to villagers, 2 to 3 youths came to her house frequently and police are searching for the suspicious youths. SP Ajay Singh, who went to the crime spot, said that the body of the woman, identified as Babri (55) was found at Bhadli village, Jhinjhinyali. SHO Chunni Lal has started the investigation. He said that the woman was staying alone and her disabled husband was staying with her sons. Everyday her daughter-in-law used to come to the woman’s house to give tea and milk and on Saturday morning, when she reached Babri’s house, it was found locked and when she peeped inside, she found her body lying there. Later, villagers came and broke the lock and found that Babri was dead. Police was informed. The reasons behind this incident are not known but it was found that 2to 3 youths used to visit her frequently and police are searching for these youths. The reasons will be revealed after they are caught. SP said that directions have been given to arrest the culprits. looking at the seriousness of the case, MOB and FSL team in-charge head constable Shailendra Singh with constable Hukmaram reached the spot and inspected the spot. Photography and videography of the spot was done. Necessary physical evidence was taken. Postmortem of the woman was done and reasons will be known after the report comes. Prima facie, the woman was killed by strangulating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/55-year-old-woman-found-murdered-in-jaisalmer-district/articleshow/79585217.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two held on charge of killing man over row on murder deal money refund||PUNE: Two persons were arrested on Friday on the charge of killing a 58-year-old-man at Varale village in Khed taluka on the night of November 30 and a search operation was on to locate their accomplice. The victim, Vinayak Bhikaji Panmand of Khed, had given Rs1.34 lakh to the three suspects as contract money to eliminate his daughter-in-law. When he demanded his money back from the trio after they failed to eliminate her, the latter strangulated him. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said, “We have arrested Avinash Baban Rathod and Mohammed Wasim Jabbar, currently staying at Khed. Rathod hails from Parbhani and Jabbar from Bihar. The search for their accomplice, also from Bihar, is on.” Panmand, a farmer, was found murdered late on the night of November 30 at an industrial shed at Varale village. “The shed owner found the body and alerted police. A cellphone was found at the crime scene. Only one number was saved in it. The number belonged to Rathod,” Prakash said. Assistant police inspector Pramod Kshirsagar, attached to the Chakan police station, lodged a police complaint after recovering the body. A couple of months ago, Panmand had contacted Rathod, an earthmover operator, and asked him to kill his daughter-in-law, staying in Satara. “Panmand paid Rs1.34 lakh to Rathod, the prime suspect in the case, and asked him to fetch firearms from Uttar Pradesh,” Prakash said. The police said Panmand’s son (30), also a farmer and a heavy earthmover operator, had two wives. One stays at Khed and the other at Satara. The family was disturbed after he started giving priority to his second wife. “Owing to some reasons, the trio failed to kill Panmand’s daughter-in-law. This enraged him, and he started demanding the money back. Rathod and the two others informed him that they have found another contract killer for him and they wanted to have a dialogue with him. Actually, the trio had made up their mind not to return the money,” Prakash said. “Fed up with the regular demand for money, Rathod and his two accomplices called Panmand to the isolated industrial shed located in Varale village in Khed and strangulated him to death,” Prakash said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-on-charge-of-killing-man-over-row-on-murder-deal-money-refund/articleshow/79586168.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Agra||BJP wins Agra section graduate MLC seat for first time||AGRA: In a first, BJP candidate Manvendra Pratap Singh won the legislative council’s graduate seat for Agra section, result of which was declared on Saturday. Samajwadi Party nominee and outgoing MLC, Aseem Yadav, lost by a margin of over 6,000 votes. Independent candidate Hari Kishore Tiwari secured third position. Voting on ballot paper for 11 MLC seats in UP took place on Tuesday. The counting of votes began on Thursday. While the results of the six teachers’ seats were declared on Friday, those for graduate seats were delayed as second and third preference votes were being tallied. The Agra section comprises 12 districts in western UP. In the 21 rounds of vote counting, BJP’s Singh secured 40,070 votes and SP candidate 33,975 votes. A resident of Aligarh district, Manvendra Pratap Singh is BJP Braj region’s vice-president. He has worked extensively for Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Talking with TOI, Singh said, “I will pursue the issues of the graduates in the legislative council. My main focus will be on ensuring skill training and job opportunities for graduates. I will also work for engagement of graduates in social, cultural and public welfare programmes of the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-wins-agra-section-graduate-mlc-seat-for-first-time/articleshow/79584729.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Three men rob Rs 18,000 from liquor shop in Pune||PUNE: Three men, wearing facemasks, barged into a country liquor shop on Thursday night, threatened the manager with a sickle and robbed Rs 17,820 from the cash box. The incident took place at a housing society in Pasalkar Chowk, Upper Bibvewadi. Complainant Anil Umakant Sagar (24) was in the shop when the trio charged at the customers and drove them out. Senior inspector Kumar Ghadge from Bibvewadi police said on Saturday, “Sagar was the only employee present at the shop when the robbers came. He did not resist them as one of them was carrying a weapon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-men-rob-rs-18k-from-liquor-shop/articleshow/79586203.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Highway expansion plan gives hope to commuters||PUNE: Industrial representatives and daily commuters in the Chakan, Khed and Ranjangaon MIDC areas have welcomed Friday’s announcement about the widening and expansion of the 17.8km Nashik Phata-Khed NH-60 stretch, and urged the authorities to ensure its speedy completion. The work, when completed, would solve many of the problems plaguing the highway stretch between Indrayani river and these industrial hubs, chief among them being traffic congestion and unsafe driving conditions. The Federation of Chakan Industries (FCI) said it hoped that this project would be completed quickly, adding that its members have lobbied for over a decade. “We have been pushing for this project for 10-15 years,” Dilip Batwal, FCI secretary, said. “This highway has become a hotspot for traffic snarls and accidents over the years. This area earns the government a lot of revenue and an improvement in commuting conditions will only increase the productivity,” Batwal explained. According to locals, the highway has few grade separators or signals at crucial and busy junctions, causing traffic to pile up every day. It takes nearly two hours to cover the 30km between Nashik Phata in Kasarwadi and Khed, with heavy vehicles headed for Mumba and Nashik jostling for space with lighter vehicles. As per the tender floated by National Highways Authority of India, the project — pegged at Rs650 crore — involves expanding the highway from four lanes to six, a flyover over a crucial bottleneck-hit junction and other roadworks such as vehicular underpasses and overpasses. “Traffic congestion has become a major issue in the Chakan area in the past five years. Road widening is the only way to address it permanently,” Shekhar Ghogre, former president of Chakan Municipal Council, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/highway-expansion-plan-gives-hope-to-commuters/articleshow/79586184.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Marked rise in chikungunya cases as focus stays on Covid||PUNE: A noticeable rise in chikungunya cases in the Covid year has raised concerns among the health authorities of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the workforce of which entirely stayed focussed on combating the SARS-CoV-2 spread during the extended monsoon. A total of 197 of 563 symptomatic patients (34%) have tested positive for the illness in the last five months at an accredited private laboratory. Last year, the same laboratory had reported 59 cases during the period after testing 334 suspected patients, accounting for a 17% positivity rate. “House-to-house visits were totally stopped during pre- and post-monsoon as the services of health workers were utilized for Covid centres. Besides, there was good rainfall in the city areas for an extended period, which led to rainwater accumulation resulting in the formation of breeding spots,” a health official said. Aedes aegypti mosquito is the vector for both dengue and chikungunya. Both the viral disease simultaneously occur primarily during June-December period. Although Pune is the hotbed of dengue, cases of chikungunya are on the higher side this year, experts said. Pathologist Awanti Golwilkar-Mehendale of AG Diagnostics confirmed the trend. Swollen ankles add to the classical symptoms of chikungunya in Pune. “A sizable number of patients are presenting with swelling over ankles/feet with high-grade fever, body ache and joint pains. It is a peculiar feature this year, which was seen first in the chikungunya outbreak in Pune five years ago,” KEM hospital’s physician Rajesh Gadia told TOI. Experts said chikungunya was mostly clinically diagnosed by doctors based on a patient’s symptoms as fatal complications in chikungunya are considered a rarity. “It often happens that a patient is prescribed symptomatic treatment without being subjected to any diagnostic tests. This is one of the reasons why many chikungunya cases can go unreported,” said family physician Avinash Bhondwe, president of the state chapter of IMA.  “Our workers are working on a war footing to destroy breeding sites,” said Sanjeev Wave, head of the insect control department at the PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/marked-rise-in-chikungunya-cases-as-focus-stays-on-ncov/articleshow/79586218.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||No talks yet on mayoral poll: Asaduddin Owaisi||HYDERABAD: AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Saturday said the TRS has not contacted him on the mayoral election. He also said the GHMC election verdict cannot be seen as a mandate for any political party and all the parties will have to start fresh for the assembly elections in 2023. “Our party did not discuss the issue (mayor and deputy mayor election). Neither the TRS has contacted us nor we have contacted them, there is still time,” said Asaduddin. He said he would speak to his MLAs and senior leaders on the issue. He said only after all the results are rolled out (since the Neredmet ward result is yet to come), the process of speaking to party members about mayor and deputy mayor will begin. He said the electorate did not given a decisive mandate for the TRS, BJP or AIMIM. “It is important to respect the mandate and understand it,” he said. Elaborating further, he said Greater Hyderabad is part of Telangana but in mainland Telangana there is a strong Telangana sentiment. “There is a regional aspiration and I feel CM KCR significantly reflects this sentiment,” he said, pointing out to the municipal election results in Nizamabad and Karimnagar. Stating that KCR is a wise politician, the AIMIM chief said: “Even today, the TRS is a formidable force in mainland Telangana. KCR floated the party and turned it into a strong outfit. I am not here to comment or interfere in other party’s affairs. They know it better.” He said the winning strike rate of AIMIM is 86% in the GHMC polls. The AIMIM contested 51 seats and won 44. He took a jibe at the BJP saying the saffron party had lost where Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath and Union home minster Amit Shah campaigned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-talks-yet-on-mayoral-poll-asad/articleshow/79586229.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 6, 2020||Pune||Pune: Curbs in Alandi, 10 villages to avert gatherings during Kartiki Wari fair||PUNE: The district administration on Friday decided to enforce Section 144 in the temple town of Alandi and 10 surrounding villages from Sunday to December 14 to prevent mass gatherings of devotees during the annual Kartiki Wari fair and curb the spread of Covid-19. The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate issued an order under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, prohibiting gathering of five or more persons at a place in Alandi and the 10 adjacent villages for nine days from Sunday. The order issued by Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash stated that the likely mass gatherings of warkaris, who come to the temple town from across the state to attend the Kartiki Wari fair, could prove risky and spread the coronavirus. Ramnath Pokale, the additional commissioner of police of the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate, told TOI on Saturday, “The temple trust is permitted to perform all rituals as per traditions in the presence of a limited number of people. No vehicle without a pass would be allowed to travel through the town during this period. We shall deploy adequate number of personnel at all check-points to ensure restrictions on vehicular movement in and around the town and the villages. Working professionals will have to procure passes from the Alandi police station.” The 10 villages surrounding Alandi are in the 8-10km radius of temple town. Hence, restriction would be in force in many areas, including industrial towns of Markal and Solo, said the police. “Industrial vehicles from these areas will have to take a detour to reach their destinations. So, industries will not face major transportation issue during these days,” said Pokale. Ankush Jadhav, the chief officer of the Alandi Municipal Council, said, “We shall provide all assistance and necessary services, including medical care, to citizens in the town during this period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curbs-in-alandi-10-villages-to-avert-gatherings-during-kartiki-wari-fair/articleshow/79586222.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Results gave son-stroke to TRS, sunrise to BJP’||A day after leading the party to an unprecedented haul of seats in the GHMC polls, Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said the party’s next target is 2023 assembly elections. Asserting that his party will continue to work with the same zeal and spirit, Sanjay, in a freewheeling interview with Koride Mahesh, said the results gave a ‘son-stroke’ to the ruling TRS and ‘sunrise’ for BJP. Excerpts from the interview. Despite winning 48 wards, the BJP doesn’t have the numbers to win the mayor post. The party lacks ex-officio members. Is the BJP planning to contest the mayoral election?Our party’s policy is to contest any election whether we win or lose. Earlier also, our party candidates had filed nominations for chairperson posts in the civic body elections. We will discuss the issue in the forthcoming meeting and take a decision. What factors do you think have contributed to the party’s victory?TRS government tried to mislead the people and divert their attention from actual issues in the city. When I said surgical strikes would be carried out on those who have been staying illegally in Old City, the TRS misled the people by saying that BJP wants to carry out surgical strikes on Old City people. People are also angry with KCR as he did not step out of Pragathi Bhavan even when several colonies were inundated in the floods. He was taking shelter in his farmhouse when Covid-19 cases saw a spike in the state. KCR promised to turn Hyderabad into London, Dallas, Singapore and Old City into Istanbul. Also, voters did not like the unholy friendship of TRS and AIMIM and minority appeasement by the government. The TRS chief did not condemn the comments made by Akabaruddin Owaisi on NTR ghat and PV ghat. During campaigning, you raised the issue of Rohingya. Is the BJP ready to send them out? Our party is still of the view that Rohingya and other foreign nationals, who have been staying illegally in the city by procuring fake passports, Aadhaar cards and voter ID cards, should be sent back. If the TRS government provides the list, the Centre would send them back. The AIMIM is giving shelter to Rohingya in camps and PFI activists in Karimnagar and Jagtial districts. What was your party’s initial estimation on the GHMC polls?Although our performance is satisfactory, we would have got 15 to 20 more wards had the State Election Commission acted impartially and police failed to stop distribution of money and liquor to the voters by the TRS. We would have secured more than 100 seats had the government given a level-playing field to all the parties. Despite all this, we got the vote share on a par with the TRS. Our voting percentage has also increased in Old City. Your party has made several promises in the manifesto. Will the party fulfil the promises now?BJP has emerged as the second largest party and is not going to rule the GHMC. Promises that are in the purview of the Centre, we will fulfil them. We will try to get more central funds to the state, especially to Greater Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/results-gave-son-stroke-to-trs-sunrise-to-bjp/articleshow/79586225.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Meerut||Former village pradhan, son shot at in Meerut; both critical||Meerut: In a shootout during broad daylight at a village in Sardhana area of Meerut district, former village pradhan and his son were allegedly shot at by the current pradhan and his henchmen over a dispute on sewer line on Saturday, police said.According to sources, the condition of the injured is critical and were rushed to higher medical centre in Meerut city where they continue to be under medical observation.In Bulandshahr district, a 65-year-old retired personnel was shot at by unidentified assailants during a morning walk on Saturday. He was rushed to a nearby hospital and later referred to Meerut after his condition deteriorated.Police are yet to ascertain the reason behind the attack on the elderly citizen. "Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the assailants. No arrests have been made so far," Bulandshahr police said.In another incident in the same district, a 45-year-old man, identified as one Anand, was allegedly shot at by unidentified assailants in Taharpur village under Aahar police station limits.According to police, two suspects have been identified in the case and their motorcycle was also recovered from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/former-village-pradhan-son-shot-at-in-meerut-both-critical/articleshow/79584738.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||6 ‘Maoists’ held, thousands protest in Bastar||RAIPUR: Thousands of villagers in Bastar have come out in protest against the recent arrest of six suspected Maoists in insurgency-hit Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh. Locals insist they are innocent farmers while police say they were involved in planting IEDs. The protest started at the suspects’ village a week ago, and has since grown in size and objective. Protesters now demand scrapping of the proposed iron-ore mining in the region, and dismantling all security camps. On Saturday, over 5,000 villagers staged a dharna at Dhaudai village in Abujhmad, about 35km from the Narayanpur town and 220km from Raipur. They blocked traffic on Narayanpur-Orchha Road for several hours. Prior to this, villagers had staged dharnas for five days at Kademeta village from where the “Maoists” were arrested. “Six Maoists were arrested for their involvement in planting IEDs at various locations on November 12 and 23. They were sent to Narayanpur and Jagdalpur jails after being produced in court,” Narayanpur SP Mohit Garg told TOI, adding that they had planted IEDs on the under-construction Palli-Barsoor Road as Naxalites are against it.The six detainees are suspected of planting 19 IEDs, 15 of which were recovered by police. The remaining four were detonated. Initially, locals of Kademeta approached police to inquire about the six persons. “They were told about the court proceedings and their families were offered to visit them in jail,” Garg said. But soon, the number of protesters swelled to the thousands. Narayanpur collector Abhijeet Singh said the exact demands of villagers are not known as they haven’t submitted any memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/6-maoists-held-thousands-protest-in-bastar/articleshow/79587665.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||UT admn seeks progress report on NGT directives||Chandigarh: The UT administration has directed different departments, including municipal corporation and Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), to submit progress report on the action initiated on the basis of directions issued by National Green Tribunal (NGT). A senior official said seeking report is part of exercise to follow up directions issued by NGT. The NGT keeps an eye on various issues like solid waste management, bio-medical and e-waste management, polythene ban and air pollution, he added. The NGT had directed the administration and the municipal corporation to complete the upgradation of all sewage treatment plants (STPs) in the city by March 31, 2021. The fresh directions were issued during the recent hearing through videoconferencing conducted by a NGT panel, which was also attended by officials of the administration, MC and CPCC. In another matter, the NGT had even passed an order asking municipal corporations to pay fines up to Rs 10 lakh if they fail to implement waste segregation at source. The NGT had also asked the administration to ensure that its directions on plastic, bio-medical, construction and demolition waste are complied with. Besides, NGT had also directed the administration to expedite work on the source appointment study which will help it prepare data to quantify the proportion of various elements to the overall level of air pollution The NGT in its previous order had said, “Adverse entries must be made in the ACRs of the CEO of local bodies and other senior functionaries in department of urban development, who are responsible for compliance of the order of this tribunal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-admn-seeks-progress-report-on-ngt-directives/articleshow/79586258.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Couple come up trumps again||HYDERABAD: A couple has got elected in the GHMC polls – for the second time. V Jagadeeshwar Goud won from Madhapur division and his wife Poojitha from Hafeezpet. For Jagadeeshwar, this is a third win. He had got elected from Hafeezpet as a Congress candidate in 2009 and won from Madhapur division in 2016 from TRS. Poojitha won from Hafeezpet in 2016. “We thank the people for having trust in us. We will continue to serve them,” Goud said. On Saturday, they met Serilingampally MLA Arekapudi Gandhi to share their victory. Meanwhile, the kin of some leaders were not as lucky. A relative of animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav suffered a setback in Ramgopalpet. A Aruna, who was seeking a re-election, didn’t win. Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna of TRS could not ensure his daughter Lasya Nandita’s won from Kavadiguda. Uppal TRS MLA Bethi Subhash Reddy’s wife Bethi Swapna Reddy suffered a defeat too. Swapna Reddy was seeking a re-election from Habsiguda division, but lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-come-up-trumps-again/articleshow/79586261.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 6, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Tally exceeds recoveries yet again, 12 more dead||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded higher cases (785) than recoveries (701) on Saturday, in reversal to the trend which prevailed in the region in the last three days. The recoveries had topped new cases for the last three consecutive days. On Friday, the region had recorded 1,113 discharges, much higher than the new cases (812). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the PCMC and rural areas recorded fewer recoveries than new cases. In the PMC limits, however, as many as 423 patients recovered as against 351 new cases. The total caseload in the PMC areas reached 1.71 lakh, while the tally in the PCMC areas increased to 93,255 on Saturday. In the rural areas, as many as 82,106 positive cases have been recorded so far, the report stated. Twelve more patients succumbed to infection-related complications in the region on Saturday, taking the toll to 8,478. Four patients each from the PMC, PCMC and rural areas succumbed to the infection. The region conducted 9,156 tests on Saturday, which were slightly higher than 8,754 samples tested on Friday. Heath officials said they had been urging citizens to undergo tests in case of symptoms. “We want citizens not to ignore symptoms and delay the testing. The swab collection centres are operational in the city where people can get tested,” a PMC health official said, adding that people also needed to exercise caution and not let their guard down. As per a PMC report, as many as 1,142 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits on Saturday. As many as 425 patients were at critical stage, of whom 250 were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-exceeds-recoveries-yet-again-12-more-dead/articleshow/79586227.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Deo Nagar shopkeepers, residents want cut near Ajni Square restored||Nagpur: Shopkeepers and residents of Deo Nagar have asked DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad to shift the traffic signal at Ajni Square to a point in front of NKY Tower near Ajni Metro station, where five roads converge, to ease the vehicular congestion at Sai Temple Square on Wardha Road. In their letter, the shopkeepers pointed out that after blocking entry from Mount Carmel School and jail road, motorists are facing difficulties in accessing the road leading to Deo Nagar Square. Residents say they have to take a circuitous route via Sai Mandir Square if they are coming from Mt Carmel School road or jail road. “Ever since the road cut was blocked, footfall of customers has drastically dropped. Taking the longer route is waste of time and also adds to pollution,” said the shopkeepers. “We requested the traffic police to shift the Ajni Square signal to a point near the Ajni Metro station so that the blocked road could be reopened. The Ajni square signal has become redundant as it’s a T-point and only three roads converge there,” pointed Raj Hirekhan, a shopkeeper and resident of the area. A couple of years ago, when the traffic on Wardha Road was blocked for the construction of Ajni Metro station, the road divider on Wardha road (in front of NKY Tower) was removed. This was to divert traffic coming towards Ajni FCI godown road heading towards RPTS and Khamla, and for vehicles coming from Kruplani Square and going toward Chhatrapati Chowk road and beyond. After the Wardha road reopened, the five roads converging point became chaotic. Following this, Awad ordered closure of the road cut. Senior police inspector (traffic) Ajay Malviya said the closed road in front of the NKY building can be opened only after installing traffic signals. “After closing the road cut, accidents have reduced,” he claimed. MahaMetro wanted a traffic signal at the five-road junction but it was rejected by Awad. Malviya said he has asked the residents to meet the officials from the traffic engineering department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation. “If they agree to install a traffic signal at the point demanded, the traffic police have no objection,” he said and added that adjusting the timing of signals will play a major role. “It should ensure smooth flow of traffic especially on Wardha Road sides (vehicles coming towards airport over the double decker flyover). Timing should be adjusted keeping in mind that vehicles should not have to wait on the flyover. Being a busy road, it will not be an easy decision,” he said. The residents and shopkeepers will be meeting municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B in the coming week, Hirekhan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deo-nagar-shopkeepers-residents-want-cut-near-ajni-square-restored/articleshow/79585253.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Son in fray, mother lost GHMC battle||HYDERABAD: A woman lost the fight because of her son in the GHMC elections. Moddu Lachchi Reddy of BJP won by a hair’s breadth from BN Reddy Nagar division in Hayathnagar circle on Friday. By a very small margin of 32 votes, he emerged victorious leaving TRS candidate Muddagouni Lakshmiprasanna Goud shell-shocked. Lakshmiprasanna was leading right from the morning when the counting was taken up. She maintained a steady lead over her rival. But, by evening, her hopes dashed as Lachchi Reddy walked away with a surprise win. While the defeat by a slender margin was not digestible to Lakshmiprasanna, what shocked her more was the fact that 39 votes were polled for the ‘torchlight’ symbol of an independent candidate. These votes could well have gone in her favour because the independent candidatewas none other than her son Ranjith Goud. Going through the figures of the votes polled for each candidate, the TRS zeroed in on the 39 votes which possibly could have saved Lakshmiprasanna from the defeat. As a strategy, the mother and son both filed their nominations. While the mother was the TRS nominee, Ranjith remained in the fray for namesake without withdrawing from the race. This cost the mother dearly. “Had the party leadership made Ranjith withdraw in time, our candidate could have romped home,” a TRS leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/son-in-fray-mother-lost-ghmc-battle/articleshow/79586246.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||77.5% Covid-19 fatalities in Nagpur dist in 50+ age group||Nagpur: The above 50 age group in the district has reported highest mortality due to Covid-19 in any given month or season — summer, monsoon and winter. Notably, the age group has reported fewer cases as compared to 31-50 age group. Despite reporting large number of cases, the 0-15 and 16-30 age groups have minimal fatality. The district office of Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) has compiled age-group wise data of positive cases and deceased till November 30. The district has reported 3,164 deaths (excluding outstation patients who died here) between April 5 and November 30. The above 50 years age group has maximum 2,454 (77.56%) fatalities, followed by 600 (18.97%) in 31-50, 98 (3.1%) in 16-30 and 12 (0.38%) in 0-15 age groups. When it comes to positive cases, the 31-50 age group reported highest 43,577 (39.26%), followed by 32,112 (28.93%) in above 50 age group, 28,034 (25.25%) in 16-30 and 7,285 (6.56%) in 0-15 age groups. Of the 32,112 infected persons in above 50 age group, the virus killed 2,454 for case fatality rate (CFR) of 7.64%. The CFR was 1.38% in 31-50 age bracket with 600 deaths among 43,577 positive patients. Of the 28,034 patients in 16-30 age group, 98 died for a CFR of 0.35%, while 12 of 7,285 patients dies in the 0-15 age group for a CFR of 0.16%. Except slight variations, the ratio of positive cases as well as deaths is same right from April to November. All deaths in April were in the above 50 age group, followed by 66.67% in May and June and 67% in July. It slightly increased to 75.44% in August, 80.4% in September and then slightly declined to 76.63% in October and 75.14% in November. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar told TOI that 77% deaths in above 50 years age bracket is a stark reality. “It is a often repeated fact that this avoidable disease is vicious for senior citizens, especially with comorbidities. At the same time, we have seen lot of patients aged above 75 recovering and going home. But senior citizens having comorbidities like obesity, diabetes, hypertension etc land up with severe complications and even death,” he said. Most of the times elderly get infected through young members of the family, said infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. “Elderly people have non-specific symptoms, hence the diagnosis is delayed which is the most important factor behind high mortality in elderly rather than comorbidity. Early diagnosis and early treatment can bring down the death rate. These people should not wait for oxygen saturation level to drop. The bar for hospitalization should be lower to reduce death,” he said. Dr Marar stresses that any kind of symptoms, be it tiredness, loose motions etc in senior citizens should be taken seriously. “Timely RT-PCR testing should be done as early intervention in Covid is the only key for survival before the virus catches the lungs. Senior citizens should be specially careful during this unlock phase as people have become very insensitive and not following Covid guidelines,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/77-5-covid-19-fatalities-in-nagpur-dist-in-50-age-group/articleshow/79585290.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 6, 2020||Pune||Norms violators to face strict penal action: Maharashtra health minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday said stringent penal action would be taken against the violators of social distancing and mask norms during the Christmas and New Year period. Tope told TOI, “We appeal to people to stringently follow social distancing and mask norms, otherwise the state may have to resort heavily to penalisation. The district and city authorities have been authorised to decide on penalties to be levied in their jurisdiction.” Tope said collectors and municipal commissioners of all the districts/cities in the state had also been told to increase the daily testing. “Maharashtra has set a target of increasing the number of tests per day to 1.5 lakh during the upcoming Christmas-New Year period as against the average per day figure of 80,000-90,000 tests. This will help us in early detection of cases and stop the spread during festivities.” Tope said the same set of norms implemented during the recent festivals like Diwali would continue during the Christmas-New Year period. The minister ruled out the current rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra as a part of a second peak in the first wave, or a prelude to a second wave. “A second wave is said to occur when the cases first drop to zero and then rise again. Cases in Maharashtra never came down to zero, so the rise in Covid cases is not a start of a second wave,” said Tope. He said the current rise in Covid-19 cases also cannot be tagged as a second peak in the first wave. “The daily number of cases recorded currently are in the range of 4,000-6,000. This increase is a result of an increase in tests. The rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra recently is also not exponential if compared to the August-September period, when daily cases were above 20,000. Looking at the numbers now, a second wave may not occur, but we should continue with following all the safety norms stringently,” he said. Experts stated that the norms recommended before Diwali would apply to the upcoming festivities. Subhash Salunke, adviser to the state on Covid-19 control, said, “Rigorous implementation of the norms, especially during the New Year period, will be very important. New Year parties, too, need not get any extra concessions than what is already allowed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tope-norms-violators-to-face-strict-penal-action/articleshow/79586230.cms||Neha Madaan
December 6, 2020||Pune||No shortcuts in fast vaccine approval: Niti Aayog member||PUNE: Niti Aayog member (health) Vinod Paul, who also heads the National Expert Group on Vaccine Implementation for Covid-19, said the country would follow all scientific and regulatory norms once a vaccine company sought emergency use authorisation. “The procedure for issuing the license will follow a framework based on scientific principles. The country has outstanding standing in this regard. Our drugs and vaccines are used to save lives the world over because of their impeccable quality,” said Paul. He said once a vaccine maker decides to file for emergency permit, all available data on safety, immunogenicity and efficacy will scrutinized by independent experts. Once cleared, the vaccination programme can start within a matter of days, he added. “The procedure will be based on deep and objective scrutiny of available scientific data from the trials. There is no room for any shortcuts,” Paul told TOI. There are about five vaccine candidates against Covid currently in different stages in India. Pune-based Serum Institute of India, which is making the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, said it will apply for an emergency use nod in two weeks. The phase 3 trial of the India-made shot from Bharat Biotech and the ICMR is underway. A candidate by Zydus Cadila has completed its phase 2 clinical trial while pharma major Dr Reddy’s Labs has started combined phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian-made Sputnik V in India. Another domestic firm, Biological E, has also started early phase 1 and 2 human trials. An approved vaccine will be first given to about one crore health workers from both the public and private sectors. They will be followed by another two crore frontline workers, which also includes police units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-shortcuts-in-fast-vaccine-approval-niti-aayog-member/articleshow/79586257.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Year later, Sukhna Lake management plan on table||CHANDIGARH: The World Wide Fund For Nature (WWF) will hold a meeting with the UT administration to prepare the Sukhna Lake management plan. The meeting is scheduled for December 7, said UT chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai. In November last year that the administration had sought help of the NGO — already a knowledge partner for declaring Sukhna Lake a wetland. The UT had raised the issue with the WWF on number of occasions but got no response, sources said. The pandemic and the lockdowns had also delayed the plan. Under the proposal, the administration will prepare a rulebook to regulate and control activities, like boating, including number and types of boats and their timings; trekking in Sukhna sanctuary; facilities for tourists in and around the lake; desilting; water availability in case of poor rainfall; management of migratory birds; fishing; and maintenance of lake. In 2012, a study report of the National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee, was submitted to the administration. The report had stated that water scarcity problem of Sukhna was mainly due to rainfall deficit. “If the administration desires to ensure availability of water in deficit years, it can be done only through an alternative source of water,” the study added. The study said the main problems of the lake were: water availability, weed infestation and siltation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/year-later-sukhna-mgmt-plan-on-table/articleshow/79586291.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Smart Cities Mission director scans projects, promotes cycling||Chandigarh: Joint secretary-cum-mission director of the smart cities, Government of India, Kunal Kumar visited the city on Saturday to review the smart city projects. During the visit, he was accompanied by municipal commissioner K K Yadav, who briefed him about the projects and works being carried out by the Chandigarh Smart City. He visited the site of the Sector 39 water works, where augmentation of storage capacity is being done to store one-day of drinking water for the city. The joint secretary also took note of the solar power generation works of 2,000 KWp that have been carried out in the water works. During the site visit, he inspected the legacy waste mining project site at Daddu Majra and appreciated the works that are being carried out. He also enquired about the bio-soil, construction and demolition waste and RDF disposal that are being done as a part of the smart city. He took note of the fact that 20 acres of land will be freed on the completion of this project. He also visited the Capit0l Complex and saw restoration works of the heritage buildings, including the Secretariat, high court and open hand. A key feature of this visit was use of cycle to cover major part of the city so as to promote cycling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/smart-cities-mission-director-scans-projects-promotes-cycling/articleshow/79586262.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Hat-trick victory for 5 contestants||HYDERABAD: For some, winning elections seems to have become a habit. In the results declared for GHMC polls on Friday, five contestants scored a hat-trick — three from TRS and two from MIM. If that in itself is a record of sorts, three other contestants won for the fourth time, to get the tag ‘most senior’ in the GHMC council. Those who won for four times are Riyasatnagar division’s MIM candidate Mustafa Baig, who had won in 2002, 2009, 2016 and 2020, Ramnaspuram division’s MIM candidate Mohd Mubeen, who won for the first time in 2002 from Aghapura, and again from 2009 and 2016 from the same place. This time, he won from Shastripuram. Begum Bazar division’s Gonti Shankar Yadav of BJP won in 2002 and 2009 as a Congress candidate and as BJP candidate in 2016 and now. “My habit every day early morning is to go around my division and be available to the people. I ensured that all government benefits reached the beneficiaries,” Mirza Mustafa Baig told TOI on Saturday. The celebrations were big in Old Bowenpally division as TRS’s Muddam Narsimha Yadav won for the third time in a row. “I did not intend to come into public service. But during 2007 and 2009, I was actively involved in protecting parks from being encroached upon and representing to the authorities to lay roads. I did this because the local public told me the elected representatives were not doing what they were requesting them to repeatedly,” Narasimha Yadav recalled. Getting into electoral politics was therefore a natural offshoot and he got elected from Old Bowenpally division three times in a row. “When you serve people and then seek votes, they stand with you. This time, I want a lake in my area to be developed as a mini Tank Bund for which the money has already been sanctioned,” he told TOI. Former mayor Majid Hussain is among those who have scored a hat-trick. Majid Hussain won from Ahmednagar division in 2009 and became mayor. He got elected from Mehdipatnam division in 2016 and now again. Akbarbagh division’s Sayyed Meenzuddin of MIM won in 2009, 2016 and now and Ravula Seshagiri has won from Gajularamaram as a TRS candidate, like he had won in 2016. Prior to that, he had won as a Congress candidate in 2009. In Maccha Bolarum division, ES Raj Jitendernath has also won for the third time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hat-trick-victory-for-5-contestants/articleshow/79586287.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 6, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra set to finish uploading frontline recipients’ details by December 10: Officials||PUNE: State officials claimed that they would finish uploading details of healthcare workers — first recipients of a Covid vaccine — to the Covin app by December 10. The app — short for ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network' — is being developed by the Centre to track distribution and dosage. The officials added that so far, none of the workers whose names have been included in the vaccination list have pulled out of the programme, which is voluntary. State immunization officer DN Patil, in-charge of the vaccination drive in the state, said, “The procedure has been time consuming. Compilation of names from government institutes is 100% complete. The private sector is yet to finish the task. We have asked all district officials to hurry it up.” The list of healthcare workers includes all medical, paramedical, security and administration staff at allopathic clinics, dental clinics, AYUSH units, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic labs and other healthcare settings. Officials said since there is no limit on the number of beneficiaries, all districts have been asked to list names after they have consent from the individuals. “Details include name, age and ID proof — all collected with help from medical associations,” Patil said. Central health officials said states have also been asked to keep a list of potential vaccinators ready. A person can be considered as a potential vaccinator as long as she/he is actively involved in day-to-day clinical care and has experience in administering injections. “States may also consider retired personnel to meet the demand for vaccinators,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-set-to-finish-uploading-frontline-recipients-details-by-dec-10-officials/articleshow/79586266.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Saffron vote share spikes in Hyderabad even as pink glow dims||HYDERABAD: It all boiled down to 0.25% of votes that changed the fortunes of both the TRS and BJP in the fierce electoral battle to gain control of Greater Hyderabad civic body. The TRS’s vote share was 35.81%, while the BJP was not far behind with 35.56% vote share. The small difference in vote share was enough to get the TRS seven seats more than the BJP. TRS won 55 divisions, while BJP candidates emerged victorious in 48 out of 149 divisions (Neredmet division’s result has been withheld). Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM bagged 44 wards and Congress bagged two divisions. Read AlsoA jubilant BJP celebrates impressive performance in Hyderabad pollsNEW DELHI: A jubiliant BJP celebrated its dramatic success in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC ) as " historic", and already appeared to be getting ready to occupy the opposition space should TRS and MIM decide to break the stalemate in the municipal body by joining hands and showcaseWhat is staggering to note here is the way the BJP has improved its vote share from just 10.34% to 35.56% in the last 4-5 years. Whereas, the TRS’s vote share saw a 8% fall from 43.85% to 35.81% in the same period. In terms of number of votes, going by the figures provided by the returning officers, the TRS got 12.04 lakh votes of the total 34 lakhs votes polled. The BJP got 11.95 lakh votes. The difference was just 9,000 votes. Read AlsoBJP leaps from 4 to 48 wards in Hyderabad pollsAsaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM held on to its 2016 tally of 44. The result of one ward has been held back because of a case in the HC. BJP has effectively dethroned Congress as the main opposition in Telangana and is set to emerge as main challenger to TRS in the 2023 assembly polls.Interestingly, the ruling TRS, which had won 99 wards in 2016 elections, enjoyed a vote share of 43.85%. BJP leaders said they missed out on more than a dozen divisions with very narrow margins. “We came second in 79 divisions and got sizeable votes in 23 other divisions which were won by the AIMIM and Congress,” BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM bagged 44 wards, the same number of seats it won in 2016 polls. What is significant is the improvement in its vote share by 3%. In the last civic elections, the party’s vote share was 15.85%, which has gone up to 18.76% in this election. Congress won just Uppal and AS Rao Nagar divisions. The party’s vote share was 6.67%. In 2016, its vote share was 10%. “The party’s vote share was reduced by 3.5% in the last four years,” an analyt said. The Telugu Desam Party’s predicament is no different. The TDP won only one seat in Kukatpally in the 2016 elections, but its vote share of 13.11% was better than BJP’s 10.34%. Both TDP and BJP contested together in that election. And in this elections, the TDP failed to win even one single ward though it fielded candidates in all the wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saffron-vote-share-spikes-in-city-even-as-pink-glow-dims/articleshow/79586308.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Without masks, residents in crowded markets big threat||LUDHIANA: Even as there is no let up in Covid-19 cases and the authorities have raised the fine amount for challans issued for not wearing masks, residents continue to remain unmindful of the pandemic’s threat. Violation of social distancing norms are rampant at various places such as Chaura Bazar and its surrounding areas. The police have already collected Rs 1.4 crore in fine from 30,000 violators for not wearing masks and observing social distancing. But, the FIRs against assembly of five or more people seem to have had little effect. Coronavirus has already infected over 4,50,000 people in the city and taken more than 7,000 lives. Still, people are found violating social distancing norms and mask hygiene is not being followed, while some others are questioning the authorities about why they are being unable to put measures in place and how they plan to address the problem. Navpreet Kaur, a city resident, said, “Despite Covid-19 cases in the city spiralling and experts urging people to avoid crowding, markets have swelled with people during and after the festive season. Instead of repenting later, the government should ramp up the testing levels immediately by at least 10 times the present level, at least to rule out an outbreak in the coming weeks. The all-important preventive norm of social distancing is not being strictly implemented throughout the country.” Speaking on the issue, Gurkirat Singh Nayyar added, “It has come to notice that norms and laws made by the government with regard to social distancing have been ignored, especially in crowded places like Chaura Bazar. This will lead to many infections and poor health and give a push to medical emergencies.” “The precautions are for the benefit of people, but if someone is not ready to follow the guidelines, he/she should be brought to the book. It is very shocking to see even educated people violating the norms and roaming in the market without any safety measures. The authorities should be stricter with such violators, but we do not find such strictness on their part,” added Diksha Luthra. Concerned about the situation many residents have requested the authorities to take strict actions against the violators. Speaking to TOI, Varinder Sharma, deputy commissioner, Ludhiana said, “A large number of residents are wearing masks and taking precautions against Covid, but there are some who violate the laws and we are taking strict actions against such people. Fines are being imposed on such violators and routine checkings are also being conducted at several places. He also appealed to residents to obey the night curfew guidelines or strict action will be taken against those who break the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/without-masks-residents-in-crowded-markets-big-threat/articleshow/79585301.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No midnight mass by Catholic Church, CNI to go ahead||KOLKATA: The Catholic Church will not hold its midnight mass at the Cathedral of the Most Holy Rosary on Christmas eve this year, breaking a centuries-old tradition, due to the Covid restrictions. Archbishop Thomas D’Souza issued a circular on Saturday in this regard. The member churches will also not hold midnight mass this year, said Archbishop D’Souza. The Church of North India has, however, decided to go ahead with the midnight mass, albeit with a slew of restrictions. Last year, chief minister Mamata Banerjee attended the midnight mass at the Catholic Cathedral on Brabourne Road. This year, an evening mass will be organised on December 24, which will end by 9pm and then the church will be closed till the next morning, according to the Archbishop’s circular. The CM is unlikely to attend, said Vicar General of the Archdiocese, Dominic Gomes. Parish churches have been allowed by the archdiocese to celebrate Holy Mass on the day of Christmas but priests have been asked to ensure that several protocols like sanitisation, social distancing and wearing masks are followed on their respective premises. The Archbishop has also cancelled Christmas gathering of priests and religious heads at Archbishop House on Park Street, which is usually held the day after Christmas. The gathering of the Diocesan seminarians that day has also been called off. Parishes will organise the Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament for an hour or slightly longer in the evening to thank the Lord for the year 2020, but the mass will have to end by 9pm, as per the circular. Churches have been allowed to hold mass in January following guidelines. “This year, let the celebrations be focussed towards the poor who have suffered the most due to the pandemic,” said Archbishop D’Souza. Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of the Kolkata Diocese of the Church of North India, has decided to go ahead with the midnight mass at the St Paul’s Cathedral both on Christmas eve and New Year’s eve. Though, a slew of restrictions will be followed. “There will be restrictions on the number of worshippers. There are many people who are not worshippers but they participate. We will have to restrict their entry,” said Bishop Canning. The diocese is about to announce its midnight mass related restrictions at St Paul’s Cathedral soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-midnight-mass-by-catholic-church-cni-to-go-ahead/articleshow/79586301.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 6, 2020||Trichy||Racket selling liquor in black market busted||Trichy: A special police team busted an illegal liquor sale racket and arrested four people besides seizing Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 40,000 at Mannachanallur and Thuraiyur areas on the city outskirts on Saturday. The seven-member police team formed by superintendent of police, Trichy district, T Jayachandran, was headed by sub-inspector of police D Nagaraj. The team arrested N Ekambaram, 37, of Maruvathur post near Thuraiyur, J Venkatesan, 44, of Poonampalayam post near Mannachanallur, his accomplice M Rajendran, 27, from the same area and M Mahendran, 40, of Gandhi Nagar in Musiri in a series of raids on Saturday morning. The team also seized 265 bottles of liquor in various quantities from four people. While Ekambaran and Mahendran operated separately, the two others were from the same gang. SI Nagaraj said that the seized liquor was bought from Tasmac shops in the area and sold in black market to the tipplers. The target customers of the offenders were daily wage labourers. The sales peak late in the night and in the early hours of the day. The price of the liquor in the black market is high. A bottle of 180 ml liquor actually priced at Rs 130 will be sold for Rs 200. The major attraction in the black market is that the offenders will make liquor available in 90 ml for Rs 100. The availability of liquor for Rs 100 would be affordable to the addicted tipplers. Police suspected the hand of a few politicians behind the business. However, that was not established so far. All the four were handed over to Thuraiyur police for further proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/racket-selling-liquor-in-black-market-busted/articleshow/79587125.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Madurai||CM burned in effigy in Virudhunagar||Madurai: Members of the Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam were arrested in Virudhunagar for burning chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in effigy, in protest against his statement that seven communities would be brought under the Deivendrakula Vellar community. Members of the AIADMK staged a protest in front of the marriage hall where the arrested men were detained on Saturday.The chief minister, after attending a review meeting in Sivaganga on Friday, said that the state government had recommended inclusion of seven castes under the common category of Deivendrakula Vellar community. Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam, which is against this move attempted to burn the CM in effigy in Virudhunagar and were arrested by police. A few AIADMK cadres gathered in front of the marriage hall where the detainees were kept, and tried to enter the marriage hall. They also staged a sit-in in front of the hall demanding that those who protested should be kept in judicial custody for 15 days.Meanwhile, members of the Vathiriyar community blocked the Vilathikulam-Madurai Road in Tuticorin, in protest against the announcement that they would be categorised with the six other communities. Police and revenue officials held talks with them after which they withdraw their protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-burned-in-effigy-in-virudhunagar/articleshow/79587485.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Canada-based NGO provides aid to kin of farmer who died||LUDHIANA: Even as chief minister Amarinder Singh has announced compensation for those dying in the ongoing farmers’ agitation, a Canada-based NGO has come forward and provided financial assistance to the family of the farmer from Jhammat who had died in a road accident while returning from the protest site near Delhi. The Surrey-based group has helped six such families of farmers who had died or suffered injuries in accidents while going to the protest site near Delhi or while returning from there. Harjinder Singh, senior project manager (south Asia) of SAF International, a charitable organisation, said that they had helped six victims who had died and suffered injuries during the ongoing farm agitation. He added that this they had been done with the help of NRIs even as they were working on how to provide education to children under the aegis of SAF India. “We have been scanning social media, etc. and through other contacts compile data of those who have died or injured in accidents in the ongoing agitation. So, as we came to know about the death of Baljinder Singh Golu of Jhammat village in an accident near Pipli in Haryana while returning from the Kisan Morcha near Delhi, we reached his village. SAF International took the responsibility of education of the children of Baljinder Singh Golu and provided Rs 50,000 as financial assistance to his family,” said senior functionary of SAF International. He said, “Baljinder’s father is already dead. Baljinder is survived by his elderly mother, wife, six-year-old daughter and four-year-old son. Saif International will help his children get education”. He added that SAF International was helping the families of those who had lost their lives during the farmer's struggle with the support of the sangat. Meanwhile, villagers appreciated the effort of the charitable organisation for their help to the family of the deceased. “Baljinder was the lone bread earner of his family as his father had died four years ago and he used to support his family by doing farming on three acres. We appreciate the Canada-based organisation’s efforts for providing financial help to the family and assuring to look after the education to his children. Many NRIs, including those in Canada and the USA, are in touch with us and they also want to help the family of the deceased. We will ensure that we also help them in the best possible manner,” said former sarpanch of the village Prithpal Singh. He added that the government was yet to provide help to the family of the deceased. Villagers had already declared to give martyr’s status to Baljinder and the body was given a befitting welcome in his village and cremation was done by the villagers with full honours. box: The accident details Around 5pm on Tuesday, 32-year-old Baljinder Singh and another villager Gurjit Singh, 30, were returning home from the farmers’ agitation near Delhi on a motorcycle when an unknown vehicle hit them near a gaushala in Kurukshetra on NH-44. While Baljinder died, Gurjit suffered injuries in the accident. The villagers had said that Baljinder and Gurjit had gone to participate in the agitation on a motorcycle on November 26, along with other youths from the village, and the duo was returning as some other youths of the village were scheduled to leave for the agitation after their return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/canada-based-ngo-provides-aid-to-kin-of-farmer-who-died/articleshow/79585322.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Country’s first Divyang Cricket Academy in Ludhiana soon||LUDHIANA: The district is likely to have India’s first divyang cricket academy soon. This was announced by the Padam Passi, president, Deaf Cricket Federation, here on Saturday. Passi made this announcement soon after the one-day cricket match between wheelchair cricket teams of Punjab and Haryana, which was won by the former by 30 runs. While giving away the prizes, Passi mentioned that the modalities for setting up of academy were being worked out and the work for it is likely to begin soon. The one-day match organised at Santokh Singh cricket stadium, Duleh, Ludhiana, by the Deaf Cricket Federation, Punjab, and Wheelchair Support Society, Punjab, and evoked a good response and was supported by the villagers. Passi later gave the cash prize and trophy to the winning team. He announced that a Divyang IPL will also be organised in February 2021, which would be open to divyang players from all over the country. Earlier, Punjab team won the toss and elected to bat first. The team scored 87 runs in 17.5 overs before it got all out. Captain Veer Singh Sandhu scored 57 runs. The Haryana team got all out for 74 runs in 13.4 overs. For Punjab, Ranjit Singh took 4 wickets followed by 3 wickets by Raja. Sandhu said it was an amazing experience to play at such a beautiful venue. “I have a dream of meeting my favourite player Virat Kohli or play with him. I hope that day will come soon,” he said. Captain of the Haryan team Parveen Lamba thanked the sarpanch for providing the players support and resources. “I will love to thank all supporters and the managing committee members who conducted this cricket match. Although, we lost this one, still I can say we tried our best and in the upcoming Divyang IPL next year we will give our best and try to win it,” he said. Dehlon village sarpanch Jasbir Singh, Nirmal Singh and Tajinder Singh Dhaliwal, who have been supporting teams by providing ground and lodging facilities were also present during the event. Jasbir said the villagers were hoping that the Punjab team would continue its winning streak as with Saturday’s win the team had won 25 matches in a row. The team has been playing 20 over matches earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/countrys-first-divyang-cricket-academy-in-city-soon/articleshow/79585312.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nashik||6 more flyers test +ve after arriving at Nashik airport||NASHIK: Six more people have tested positive for Covid-19 infection after their arrival at the Nashik airport, reports from the RT-PCR test conducted at the facility have shown. Since November 25 — the date when state government made it mandatory for the flyers from Goa, Gujarat, Delhi and Rajasthan to carry certificates of RT-PCR tests before their journey — as many as nine flyers have been tested positive for Covid-19. The first batch of flyers coming from Ahmedabad and Delhi on November 25 had as many as 69 people, who did not have the RT-PCR certificates, and hence had to undergo tests for the infection. Many of them had the anti-gen tests conducted but that was not permitted in the guidelines. Later, three of them from one family had tested positive for the infection. According to the officials, 139 passengers have undergone tests for the infection between November 27 and December 3. Six of them were found Covid-19 positive. The officials further added that none of the persons diagnosed positive for the infection where in serious conditions and hence, except for one, all are in home isolation. “All arrangements for conducting of RT-PCR tests have been made at Nashik airport for people, who do not have such certificates. The tests are being conducted with the help of Diagnostic Molecular Laboratory of Dr Vasantrao Pawar Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Nashik,” the officer said. The officials also pointed out that the expenses for testing and treatment were to be borne by the flyers themselves. Similarly, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has so far screened 7,000 passengers coming by railways at Nashik Road station, while the rural health department has screened nearly 2,300 persons coming by train at various destinations including Manmad Junction. In Nashik out of the seven thousand persons screened for oxygen concentration using pulse oximeters and thermal gun for temperature the NMC health officials conducted antigen testing for 161 persons but none of them was found positive. For commuters coming by Railways, the passengers have to be screened only, for health reasons. The RT-PCR was not mandatory for them. However if there was any person with symptoms, he was to be taken to the Covid-19 facilities. But here was no such case in the district – neither in the urban areas nor in the rural areas the officers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-more-flyers-test-ve-after-arriving-at-nashik-airport/articleshow/79584777.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||Police constable held for running gambling den||Rajkot: A police constable posted at Halvad police station was arrested for running a gambling den in forest department’s residential quarters in Maliya area of Morbi district on Saturday.A team from Rajkot range IG’s office raided the forest department’s quarters in Khisara village under the Maliya Miyana police station and arrested police constable Rajendrasinh alias Rajbha Zala. They also seized four liquor bottles, 34 cans of beer and illegal weapons from the accused. The weapons include pistols, revolvers and cartridges.Cops also arrested Ghanshyam Addodara, Jayanti Thoriya, Navalsinh Jadeja, Naresh Patel, Sanjay Lokhil and Kama Paswan from the gambling den with Rs 7 lakh cash.According to sources, Zala was earlier posted in Maliya Miyana area for eight years.The quarter from where the gambling den was operated belonged to Zala’s friend who is a forester. Since he was not using the quarters, the forester had given it to Zala for use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/police-constable-held-for-running-gambling-den/articleshow/79585331.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra govt wants number of daily Covid-19 tests to increase in Nashik||NASHIK: The state health department has advocated for the enhancement of the number of Covid-19 tests done in Nashik district each day against the backdrop of a possible second wave. Senior officials, however, believe this move could be a very costly affair. According to the sources in the district administration and the health department, the state wants the administration to test one in every 1,000 people in the rural areas and one in every 500 residents in the urban areas. The sources said this would mean that the administration will have to conduct around 10,500 tests per day, which is much more than the 4,552 tests conducted per day across the district in September, when Covid-19 was at its peak. “The state government has issued fresh guidelines. Going by the numbers, it would involve enormous costs and also add to the burden of the government laboratories as people would not be willing to shell out money from their own pockets to test themselves at the private laboratories,” an officer said. Sources said the government has the capacity to conduct around 1,850 tests per day while the private labs can pitch in with about 28,600 tests per day – which can be increased. While the government tests are for free, private labs charge at least Rs 1,000 per test. As per the guidelines, the administration must screen people who have multiple contacts in a day and this means screening and testing small vendors, dairy owners, grocers, barbershop workers etc. The officials pointed out that because of lack of specific guidelines, there would be no special laboratories maintained to process the samples of people coming from the high-risk categories. As a result, the daily load of 10,500 tests could prove detrimental as a delay in results could lead to deterioration in health, eventually defeating the purpose of testing. Officials said they were consulting with the state health department as the situation is likely to be the same across all districts. The new guidelines would put pressure on the government testing facilities and also could be a very costly proposition for the government. “There could be some relaxation,” one officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-govt-wants-number-of-daily-covid-19-tests-to-increase-in-nashik/articleshow/79584774.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 6, 2020||Ludhiana||Finally, local bodies department notifies vending zones||Ludhiana: After a long wait, the vending zones have been finally notified for the industrial town by the local bodies department but still there are many things are to be done for establishing the vending zones. Out of these selected sites some may fall under the jurisdiction of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), for which the NOCs are still pending. Moreover, the detailed project report (DPR) for designing and establishing the vending zones is yet to be prepared. In the notification, the vending zones have been notified in all four zones. In zone A, six sites have been notified having a capacity to accommodate 1,543 vendors, whereas in zone A identified vendors are 5,925. In zone B, 17 sites have been notified to accommodate 3,354 vendors, while identified vendors are 5,377. In zone C, 11 sites have been notified for accommodating 1,174 vendors and identified vendors in this zone are 3,654. However, in zone D, maximum 30 sites have been notified with a capacity for 2,918 vendors, whereas in zone D, 6,769 vendors have been identified. So, these vending zones will accommodate 8,989 vendors while the total number of vendors identified in survey were 21,725. As per notification, the vending zones shall have all civic amenities like water supply, streetlights, one toilet within 1 km range, etc. There should be provision of bollards at the entry of the vending zones. Besides, safe pedestrian crossing facilities were also required where vending zone continue after a road crossing, parking plans should be marked at vending zones and vacant land in front of the vending zones be made pedestrian friendly at all places. It must be ensured that there should be no traffic problem near vending zones and no hindrances should be created for the pedestrians, vehicles or medical vans near roadsides. The layout plan should be amended according to the abovesaid advisory. Municipal corporation, Ludhiana, shall ensure that the area being provided to the street vendors is its property. In case, such property is the ownership of any central or the state authority or any other government/corporate authority, then the respective MC shall get a no-objection certificate from the authorities concerned and only thereafter earmark such property to be a vending area/zone. The secretary of MC, Neeraj Jain, said, “The sites have been notified by the local bodies department but they are yet to finalize the DPRs for the vending zones and also some sites are yet to get NOC from other departments. We had conveyed to Glada and LIT for these sites but those departments are having certain issues like land is prime or they had kept it for some other purpose.” He claimed that town vending committees will also finalize the charges to be recovered from vendors for running their business in vending zones as these charges will go to the MC house for approval. Meanwhile, the chairman of LIT, Raman Balasubramanium, said that for a few sites they had given the nod but still some sites were reserved for some other purpose. ‘Moreover, their are planned markets and there is no requirement of setting up vending zones as they already have all required things there,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/finally-local-bodies-department-notifies-vending-zones/articleshow/79585333.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Congress now making more inroads, BJP falling slightly behind||Nagpur: A day after Congress romped home with a spectacular victory in the graduates’ constituency polls of Nagpur division by breaking the BJP’s citadel of nearly six decades, political analysts feel that the saffron party’s base in its stronghold of Vidarbha, particularly Nagpur District, is perhaps waning. According to analysts, the BJP’s decline started after the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly polls despite being in power at the Centre and state from 2014. Two of the party’s senior leaders won their seats with reduced margins, belying expectations. Moreover, the party could secure only six out of the 12 assembly seats in Nagpur district in last year’s polls while two were closely won in comparison to the 11 seats in 2014. Even in Vidarbha, the party in coalition with Shiv Sena could secure only 34 assembly seats last year in comparison to 48 in 2014. While union minister Nitin Gadkari had defeated Vilas Muttemwar of the Congress by a huge margin of over 2.86 lakh votes in the 2014 general elections from Nagpur constituency, the margin was reduced to 2.16 lakh votes in 2019 against Nana Patole (assembly speaker). Similarly, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis won by a margin of 58,942 votes against Congress candidate Praful Gudadhe in the 2014 polls. After being in the CM’s seat for five years, BJP activists were expecting Fadnavis to retain his seat from Southwest constituency with a margin of over one lakh votes against Ashish Deshmukh (Congress). Though Fadnavis won by 49,344 votes, his victory margin reduced by nearly 10,000 votes. Political commenttor Vikas Jambhulkar feels that this trend would continue in the forthcoming elections, including the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) polls of 2022. “I don’t think BJP’s popularity is waning. It is the Congress and its allies who have mobilised their voters in a much better manner than they did before. The BJP’s voting share hasn’t reduced significantly in the graduates’ constituency polls, but Congress’s share jumped for the first time after it officially fielded a full-time candidate,” said Jambhulkar. BJP city president and MLC Pravin Datke disagrees that his party is losing out on popularity. “In the recent NMC byepolls, we won with an overwhelming majority from the area where Dalit and Kunbi voters are more in numbers. Even when Gadkari won the Nagpur seat last year, his voting percentage increased though the margin reduced. Similarly, Fadnavis’ vote share also increased in the 2019 elections. So, you can’t say that the party is losing ground.” Darke, however, admitted that his party made some mistakes in the graduate constituency polls and all leaders and activists need to introspect and move ahead. “There’s still a lot of time left for the NMC polls. We need to work harder. I’m sure the BJP will better its 2017 tally in the 2022 elections,” said Datke. Congress city chief Vikas Thakre believes people voted for a change as BJP failed to fulfil their expectations. “After the graduate constituency poll debacle, the writing is on the wall. People now want a change and it will reflect in the corporation elections. The BJP is ruling NMC since many years. Citizens are still suffering. Even in the assembly polls, BJP lost five seats despite having two senior leaders from the city. This clearly indicates that people are fed up with the saffron party,” said Thakre. # HOW BJP IS LOSING BASE IN NAGPUR & VIDARBHA # Biggies’ winning margin in 2014 & 2019 polls * Union minister Nitin Gadkari Year ----- Margin ------------ Votes % 2014 –--- 2,86,828 ---------- 54.17% 2019 ---- 2,16,009 ---------- 55.67% * Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis Year ----- Margin ------------ Votes % 2014 –---58,942 ------------- 59.21% 2019 ---- 49,344 ------------- 56.86% # BJP MLAs in Ngp district in 2014 & 2019 2014 – 11 2019 — 6 # How BJP-Sena (Before splitting) & Congress-NCP fared in 2014 & 2019 polls in Vidarbha: Year —2014 BJP-Sena — 48 Cong-NCP — 11 Others — 3 ------------------------------- Year -------- 2019 BJP-Sena -- 34 Cong-NCP — 20 Others — 8 --------------------------- # Factors that led to BJP taking a hit in Vidarbha * Caste factor played major role after party denied tickets to Chandrashekar Bawankule & Sudhakar Kohale * Worried parents under Save Merit Save Nation went against it after introduction of 12% Maratha reservation that reduced open category seats * Internal fights in Gadkari & Fadnavis camps over gaining superiority in decision making * Activists becoming overconfident after 2014 success in Lok Sabha & assembly polls * Fielding Brahmin candidates leading to resentment among its other castes voters * Leadership focusing only on Nagpur while ignoring other districts regarding development||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/congress-now-making-more-inroads-bjp-falling-slightly-behind/articleshow/79586343.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur-Shirdi leg of Samruddhi Mahamarg to open in 6 mths: CM||Amravati: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday expressed confidence that the Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Mahamarg would be the best in the country. Earlier, Thackeray first reached Nagpur from Mumbai by a government plane. From Nagpur, he went to Amravati in a chopper which landed on the highway.“Highway work is being completed expeditiously and it would open till Shirdi in next six months,” said Thackeray. The Nagpur-Mumbai highway is 74km long in Amravati district. The CM travelled 6km on it. “We have given top priority to this work which was on even during the lockdown period. This has resulted in completion of most of the work. This project is one which Maharashtra can feel proud of,” said Thackeray.The highway would be thrown open to the public in the first phase by May 1, facilitating transport from Nagpur to Shirdi. “The entire highway would be ready for traffic from Nagpur to Mumbai by next year. Efforts are being made to complete the other road works in the state expeditiously,” said Thackeray.Thackeray visited Shivani Rasulapur in Nandgaon Khandeshwar tehsil and inspected the work under way on this highway. He was accompanied by urban development and PWD minister Eknath Shinde, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur, forest minister Sanjay Rathod, Addl chief secretary PWD Manoj Saunik, secretary Anil Gaekwad, MSRDC MD Radheshyam Mopalwar, divisional commissioner Piyush Singh, collector Shailesh Naval, ZP CEO Amol Yedge and rural DP Hari Balaji. Project director Sangita Jaiswal delivered the introductory remarks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-shirdi-leg-of-samruddhi-mahamarg-to-open-in-6-mths-cm/articleshow/79586321.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||APPSC candidates protest, call for three-month postponement||VIJAYAWADA: Aspirants selected for the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission’s (APPSC) group-1 mains examination staged protests outside the camp office of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at Thadigadapa here on Saturday and submitted a memorandum. Altogether, 1,327 candidates who recently qualified for the group-1 mains examination, demanded the government defer the exam by three months, alleging injustice as they were given only 45 days to prepare for the exam scheduled from December 14 to 20. Based on the Andhra Pradesh high court’s order, the commission recently revised the answer key and published a fresh list of 1,327 candidates last month. Candidates who had previously qualified for the mains examination had around a year’s time for preparation. Nikhila Bhagam, a candidate selected under the revised list, said, “Covering all topics in 45 days’ time is not enough for us as there is vast subject matter to cover. Candidates who got selected earlier got one year time for preparation.” Bhagam added that candidates have met APPSC officials and submitted many memorandums requesting they defer the exams, but they have received no response. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is the only hope for us and we have decided to demonstrate in front of his house and submit memorandum. Hope he will respond and address our issue,” said Srinivas, an aspirant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/appsc-candidates-protest-call-for-three-month-postponement/articleshow/79585075.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Containment zones in Hyderabad dip as active cases go down||HYDERABAD: The number of containment zones in the city have dropped from nearly 100 a fortnight back to 63 now, while there are less than 100 containment zones in the remaining parts now, say state say health authorities. While is a clear indication of active cases going down and spread of clusters being controlled, in the latest health directive, authorities have instructed health officials to comb every single household in a locality in case of a small outbreak. “Even if there is a small cluster, every household in the vicinity and in rural areas, the entire village and mandals are being tested. The idea is to not wait for people to develop symptoms and come to our centres but we go to the people and begin early identification of cases,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana, speaking about the precautionary measures being taken up. District and even mandal level authorities have been asked to reach out to high-risk groups like elderly people, people with co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac issues, kidney issues and others on immunosuppressants for periodic check-ups. “Since we have a registry of such patients enrolled under various schemes of ours, we are reaching out to these people, so that they are tested every 10-15 days. Also, in addition to rythu bazaars and markets, commercial establishments, government and private offices are also being targeted for testing,” added the official. For this purpose, testing kits have been stocked up at all district and mandal headquarters regularly. While currently, over 95% of the tests happening in the state are rapid antigen tests, the government is likely to focus more on these tests in the future as well for quick identification of cases and early beginning of treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/containment-zones-in-hyd-dip-as-active-cases-go-down/articleshow/79587133.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 6, 2020||Nashik||Second-lowest minimum temperature in Nashik this season||NASHIK: The mercury in Nashik plummeted from 14 degrees celsius on Friday to 11.1 degrees celsius on Saturday (December 5), recording the second-lowest minimum temperature this season. The lowest temperature recorded this season was 10.4 degrees celsius on November 12. Thereafter, the mercury rose to 19.4 degrees celsius on November 20. Subsequently, the minimum temperatures hovered between 13 and 18 degrees celsius till Friday. According to the officials at the city-based observatory of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Nashik is currently having clear skies. This means, there is plenty of sunshine causing the maximum temperature to be on the higher side. At the same time, the clear weather is also contributing to the colder nights. The maximum temperature, which jumped from 26.6 degrees celsius on November 28 to 30.3 degrees celsius on November 29, has been hovering between 30 and 31.5 degrees celsius since then. The temperature at Niphad was also recorded 11.1 degrees celsius, the sources in the Agriculture Research Centre, Kundewadi, Niphad, said. The weather is likely to remain the same over the next few days, though there could be partially cloudy skies from Tuesday onwards and the minimum temperature may rise to or around 15 degrees celsius. Residents in Nashik, meanwhile, are making the best use of the pleasant weather. “The school are closed due to Covid-19 and the children do not have to sit for their online classes before 8 am. This gives us ample time to take short countryside trips in the early mornings. Whenever the mercury drops, we go out to enjoy the weather,” said Prathamesh Borhade, a businessman in Nashik. “This is the best time to be out and exercise. I do not miss a day and also ensure that my friends join me,” said Anshuman Dubey, a youngster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/second-lowest-minimum-temp-in-nashik-this-season/articleshow/79584779.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Dalit RTI activist who exposed multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam in Uttrakhand shot dead in Haridwar||Haridwar: Pankaj Lamba, a 50-year-old Dalit RTI activist who had blown the lid off the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam in Uttarakhand was killed after a freak incident in which a 16-year-old girl accidentally fired a shot at him from the activist’s own pistol. The bullet hit him on the neck. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. The incident happened on Friday night at Tehri Visthapit colony falling under Ranipur police station. According to police, Lamba was at a party at the girl’s residence where he allegedly gave his pistol to the teenager to look at. Police said that the activist had assumed the pistol was empty but a bullet was in the pistol’s chamber and he got hit on his neck when the girl fired. Five persons including the girl’s sister and two of Lamba’s associates were present during the time of the incident. Providing details, SHO Ranipur police station, Yogesh Dev, told TOI, “The girl along with her sister and two younger brothers has been staying in a rented accommodation in the area for the past four months. Apparently, they were not happy with their father’s second marriage after the death of their mother. Their father is a resident of Shastri Nagar in Delhi and had left the children in Haridwar where he often came to meet them. The 16-year-old girl meanwhile came in contact with a man named Manav who is a close associate of Lamba. Manav invited Lamba for a party at the girl’s residence on Friday night.” He added that Lamba reached the venue along with another of his associates. “He had two firearms at the time of the incident and he gave one of the pistols to the girl to look at, thinking it was empty,” Dev said. After the incident, a team of forensic and ballistics experts were called to scan the site. SSP Haridwar Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Liquor bottles and food were recovered from the crime scene. We have recorded the statement of the minor girls and the two other persons who were at the spot and further investigation is going on.” Lamba had filed several RTIs on the basis of which a special investigation team (SIT) had been formed on the orders of the HC to investigate siphoning off of funds meant for SC/ST students in the state. Owners of many colleges, besides officers of the social welfare department have been arrested so far by the SIT in connection with the scam. Between 2011-12 and 2016-17 — before the scam was uncovered — the social welfare department is believed to have released over Rs 7,200 crore as scholarship money for SC/ST students. The scam is estimated to be over Rs 350 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dalit-rti-activist-who-exposed-multi-crore-sc/st-scholarship-scam-in-uttrakhand-shot-dead-in-haridwar/articleshow/79584773.cms||MS Nawaz
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||No land in city for afforestation: Greens||Nagpur: While the National Highway Authority of India is claiming that it will carry out large-scale compensatory plantations against tree felling at Ajni, environment experts have cited massive shortage of suitable land for afforestation in city limits. In a press release recently, the NHAI stated that it will do compensatory plantation of 25,000 trees in and around the city. Insiders at the authority informed that the agency doesn’t have enough vacant space to plant such large number of trees. As per experts, most of the available open areas within the city limits are not suitable for carrying out compensatory plantations. On Saturday, former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das wrote a letter to deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Prabhu Nath Shukla, stating that compensatory plantations should not be permitted at the Ambazari biodiversity park. According to Das, it is imperative to maintain the grassland status of the forest land. “The area provides habitat to numerous grassland species. It is very important to maintain its original biodiversity type and composition. No plantation programmes should be taken up in the area,” he stated. The activist also sought details regarding available open spaces belonging to the forest department. “The Inter-Model Station coming up at Ajni is all set to destroy one of the last few green patches in the city. Thousands of age-old trees will be chopped for the entire project. Where will NHAI plant trees against it,” he questioned. Moreover, in almost all the agency’s projects, compensatory plantation has been done with the wrong species at the wrong places, pointed out Prachi Mahurkar, partner at Punarnava ecological services and eco-design solutions. “Firstly, NHAI doesn’t have the space to plant trees against the ones that will be felled at Ajni. Apart from this, the proposed list of plants which is given by NHAI contains not only exotic species but also some invasive species which are proven harmful to the biodiversity,” she said, adding that it doesn't make sense to remove existing full-grown flora with unwanted invasive flora in the name of development. According to officials of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, it will be a struggle to find appropriate places for such large-scale afforestation. “Even if land is available, maintaining those plantations will be a real challenge,” they said. TOI has reported about failure of compensatory plantations done by NHAI at various places. “The agency’s track record shows that it failed in taking care of its plantations and only wasted public money,” activists said. Show cause to Rly The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s garden department has issued a show cause notice to Central Railway for illegally felling over 100 trees at two locations in Ajni. As reported by TOI, trees were felled to build an office and residential towers as the existing quarters will have to be demolished for the proposed Inter-Model Station. Officials said that railway has been chopping off trees without the mandatory permission since a long time. The agency has been given a time period of seven days to reply to the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-land-in-city-for-afforestation-greens/articleshow/79586360.cms||Manka Behl
December 6, 2020||Madurai||Man, son jailed for murder booked under Goondas Act||Madurai: Three people, including a man and his son, who were arrested in connection with a murder case and were lodged in Madurai central prison a few months ago, were detained under the Goondas Act after they were found to be planning to indulge in further criminal activities.K Pandiarajan, 24, of Krishna Nagar in Kadachanendal, his father P Krishnan, 47, and S Pandi, 24, of TNHB Colony in Anaiyur were the trio. Madurai city police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha ordered their detention under the goondas act. Police sources said they hacked to death Murugan, a tea shop owner in Surya Nagar, as he developed extramarital relationship with Krishnan’s wife. Five people including the father-son were involved in the murder which took place at day break when Murugan was on his way to his shop in K Pudur.Police said that 73 rowdy elements have been detained so far under the goondas act this year. SS Colony police had made the most recommendations, 14, followed by Avaniyapuram police with 11 and Subramaniyapuram police with seven. Five people were taken to task on the recommendations of Jaihindpuram, Madhichiyam and Sellur police stations. A police officer from the city police unit said various measures are being undertaken to prevent grave crimes. Detention of notorious people and those who can potentially involve in a grave crime is being taken up under Goondas Act which is invoked to keep habitual offenders in detention for a year to curtail their criminal activities.Police said that apart from this, execution of bonds under CrPC section 110 is also being done to curtail the movement of rowdy elements who pose a threat to maintenance of law and order and peace in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-son-jailed-for-murder-booked-under-goondas-act/articleshow/79587487.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||Three of family die as ambulance overturns near Halvad||Rajkot: Three persons of a family were killed and two others injured when the private ambulance in which they were travelling overturned near Halvad town of Morbi district late on Friday night. Police said that the accident happened as the driver dozed off near Dhanala village of Halvad in the middle of the night and lost control of the vehicle.The deceased and other family members are residents of Mandvi in Kutch district and were returning home after consulting a doctor in Ahmedabad for Valji’s son Shyam (14) who had sustained severe burn injuries recently.Those killed in the accident include Kanya Gadhvi (61), his son Valji (39), both the residents of Nani Unadka village of Mandvi taluka of Kutch, and their relative Vasant Gadhvi.The two others travelling in the ambulance — Ram Gadhvi and driver Pintu Gadhvi — suffered injuries and were shifted to a hospital in Morbi.Police said that Shyam suffered only minor bruises in the accident.According to police, Shyam had suffered burns after short-circuit in a windmill in their village at Mandvi in Kutch. Though Shyam was under treatment at Mandvi, the doctor there had asked his parents to consult a specialist in Ahmedabad.The bodies of the deceased were handed over to the family members after postmortem, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-of-family-die-as-ambulance-overturns-near-halvad/articleshow/79585358.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Drug peddlers posing as tourists to escape police||VISAKHAPATNAM: Drug peddlers, including inter-state smugglers, are posing as tourists and moving ganja to various places from Visakhapatnam Agency, the police have found. As tourists start trickling in to Araku Valley, Chintapalle and other parts of Visakhapatnam Agency, smugglers are using the opportunity to smuggle out weed in the guise of tourists. The Visakhapatnam rural police have seized over 34,500 kilos of dry ganja in 2020 so far. Weed harvesting has picked up in Visakhapatnam since October. Only in November, over 12 tonnes of ganja was seized in over 30 cases. Huge hauls of ganja were recovered from Araku, Paderu and other parts of Visakhapatnam Agency. According to a senior police official, it is difficult to intercept all vehicles in the absence of credible clues. They may be genuine tourists who have to suffer being intercepted at various locations for checks, he said, while adding that some smugglers do manage to escape in regular tourist cabs. SEB deputy commissioner T Srinivasa Rao and assistant commissioner SVVN Babji Rao told TOI that the bureau is chalking out plans to check inflow of ganja from tribal pockets. The government will give some powers to SEB for it to tackle ganja trade, they added. Both police and SEB officials have observed that ganja smuggling in Visakhapatnam has gone up recently after a brief lull. In the past, the excise department used to conduct raids and destroy ganja plantations. But there have been no raids or destruction of plantations this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drug-peddlers-posing-as-tourists-to-escape-police/articleshow/79585061.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Fraudsters dupe devotees promising Durga sarees in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Fraudsters using the name of the Kanaka Durga temple duped five devotees by promising sarees of the goddess and collecting online payments from them. The temple trust body has said it will register a complaint with the cybercrime police. The devotees complained to the temple management that they had received calls from a telecaller, who offered them a saree, kukuma and prasadam of the Goddess Kanaka Durga under a lucky draw. Each devotee was asked to pay Rs 5,000 through an online wallet. Believing that the temple management had started a new scheme, the devotees paid the amount. After receiving the payment, there was no response from the telecaller. Devotees then approached the temple management folowing which temple authorities identified that some miscreants were using the name of the temple to make money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fraudsters-dupe-devotees-promising-durga-sarees/articleshow/79584994.cms||Venu Lanka
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Autos ride aggregator services to recovery||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the economy opening up post-lockdown, aggregator services are seeing demand return to nearly pre-pandemic levels. However, one aspect that has changed is that people are choosing airy auto rickshaws over cars in cities and towns across AP. Officials of ride-hailing service companies say that there is an increased preference for ventilated, low-contact vehicles — auto-rickshaws— over cars. While one aspect of this change in preference is pandemic safety another is that auto-rickshaws are a cheaper alternative which have turned popular amid economic distress. “Before the lockdown, we had the option of shared cabs. There were passengers who used to opt for this service on a regular basis because the rides were comfortable as well as economical. However, now that we have stopped shared services, the same passengers are choosing auto-rickshaws as a safe and economical alternative,” a senior official with a ride-hailing service told STOI. Another aspect that has played a role in this change of preference is that auto-rickshaws in Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and other cities of Andhra Pradesh prefer to run shared services on specific routes. But following the pandemic, shared services are not fetching passengers resulting in more autos landing up on app-based platforms. “This has increased the availability of auto-rickshaws on apps and passengers are happily choosing these three-wheelers over cars. In fact, people are even booking auto-rickshaws for airport and railway station trips,” the official from the ride-hailing service said. Last week, K Tulasidas of Madhurawada was looking for cabs on an app for a trip to the airport when he found that auto-rickshaw services were available. He wasted no time in booking an auto rickshaw. “While it took me around 15 to 20 minutes more than usual to reach the airport, the minimum cab fare from my home to the airport is Rs 500. But my ride on the auto-rickshaw cost just Rs 240,” Tulasidas said. Speaking to STOI, an Ola spokesperson said, “We continue to see a surge in demand with positive growth trend over past few weeks in cities that we operate in. Demand is recovering faster with opening up of offices, increased leisure travel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/autos-ride-aggregator-services-to-recovery/articleshow/79584974.cms||Arpit Basu
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Priest catches thief trying to steal from temple hundi||VIJAYAWADA: A temple thief was caught red-handed while trying to break the hundi of Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple in Gannavaram town on Saturday. The accused was identified as Narendra from Telaprolu village under Unguturu mandal in Krishna district. According to Gannavaram police, the incident happened early on Saturday when Narendra barged inside the temple and tried to break open a locked hundi. However, a priest residing adjacent to the temple heard the noise and rushed to the spot and caught him red-handed. Narendra was restrained and tied to a pole and the local police called. Police reached the spot and examined the scene. The accused, police said, tried to break the lock of the hundi and when that was not possible, tried to take the hundi with him. A case of theft was registered and the accused arrested. Investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/priest-catches-thief-trying-to-steal-from-temple-hundi/articleshow/79585001.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Talent & dedication decide destination, not physique’||DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil, has two critically-affected districts, Gondia and Gadchiroli, under his charge. The erstwhile SP of Gadchiroli has returned to the daunting posting to take on the armed rebels in eastern Vidarbha, a task left incomplete during his earlier stint in 2014-2016. Though short in stature, this 2006-batch IPS officer thinks big and wide as far as policing is concerned. A follower of Shivkrupanand Swami foundation, Patil delves deep into meditation to strengthen his inner self. In an interview to TOI, Patil talks about the challenges his job entails. Excerpts... Q. How much does size and shape matter in real life? A. The society’s pre-occupation with well-built and tall personalities reflects in the mindset of the masses. But looking back on history, I would suggest a different reality where we worshipped Shivaji and Dr BR Ambedkar or Sachin Tendulkar as our heroes. None of them had an impressive height or a great physique. Napoleon Bonaparte led a huge army. He was only five feet tall. My height is 167cm and weight 52kg but they could not stop me from reaching where I am today as DIG, Naxal range, entrusted with the responsibility to take on the rebel movement in my state’s two districts. Physique is secondary, talent and dedication make you climb the ladder of success. Q. How did you cope with your physical attributes as an IPS officer? A. I am perhaps the shortest and lightest of all IPS officers in the state. It’s common for me to hear 'Asa lahan manus SP kasa asnar? (How can such a short man be an SP?) but such remarks don’t make any difference to me. It’s a reality which I never wanted to escape from and neither should others. My physical structure is linked to my genes. I’m just like my father. It’s neither in my hands nor anyone else’s too and hence it should not be allowed to dent your confidence or motivation levels at any point in life. In school, I was bullied by my seniors. But they stopped after realizing that I was a good help to them in maths and science. People will bow before your qualities if you develop them. In the first meeting, people will judge you on the basis of your looks but later it would be your talent, leadership, skills, abilities and vision which are the intrinsic qualities which would make one acceptable and desirable in the society. Q. How important is to have a robust physique to become an IPS officer? A. The common perception and belief in the society is that someone well-built must seek opportunities in the police force or the Army. He or she is perceived as a more competent aspirant. There are certain physical criteria for making it to IPS cadre after crossing the hurdle of the common civil service examination like one should be able to expand one’s chest by five inches and height should be minimum 165cm. One should be able to complete a cross-country race of 16km which I did ahead of the others, ride 5km on horse back and swim 50 metres after jumping from a height of 10 feet. I got a rough and aggressive horse to ride on the test day but I managed it easily. It’s a matter of high intellect combined with mental and physical fitness more than anything else. As an IPS officer, one needs to have good oratory skills and leadership qualities to relay your ideas to the force. Q. How has your journey as an IPS officer been so far? A. Apart from IPS (2006 batch), I was also selected for the National Defence Academy. In the initial days, the then director of our academy (National Police Academy, Hyderabad) K Vijaykumar (now chief security adviser in the ministry of home affairs) had started wondering as to how would I complete the training. I assured him that I would not miss a single day of outdoor physical training. Apart from keeping my promise, I also made it to the top three in outdoor activities in that batch of 105 probationers. After joining service, many started doubting my abilities based on my physical attributes, but I was SP in three most challenging districts of Maoist-affected Gadchiroli, Pune rural and the communally-sensitive Parbhani. I had volunteered to go to Gadchiroli as SP. In Gadchiroli, I ensured that the 2014 state assembly elections were conducted successfully despite numerous attempts by Maoists to disrupt the proceedings. I have returned as DIG to fulfil my vision to tackle Maoism with a fresh holistic approach. Till date, I have never opted for sick leave. Q. What is more important, vision or a great physique? A. Having a physically fit body is a pre-requisite to become successful in the long run but developing skills, vision, talent and expertise in various spheres are the other criteria which need to be fulfilled. We need to become adept in managing stress too. Apart from physical strength, one needs to nurture mental strengths too and learn the art of adaptation and innovation in every situation in life. Q. Would you give a thumbs up to bodybuilding or meditation? A. In Indian philosophy, the stress is on yoga more than body building or meditation. The first four stages of yoga are about physical fitness and the next four are related to mental grooming. The two aspects of physical and mental fitness should be balanced instead of just focusing on one of them and ignoring the other. Q. Have you ever felt disadvantaged while leading an operation against Maoists? A. Being light weight has been a great advantage to move around and lead the force in difficult terrains. As an IPS officer, one must have good oratory skills and leadership qualities to lead from the front. While undergoing training, we are groomed for different situations, including the ability to carry heavy rucksacks on the back and run with arms and ammunition too. During any operation, I never felt uncomfortable with my physique. It’s more about tactics to survive and sustain in places like Gadchiroli than muscular strength.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/talent-dedication-decide-destination-not-physique/articleshow/79586264.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||SC upholds conviction in rape case, says people suffering from mental illness deserve special care||New Delhi: People suffering from mental illness deserve special care and love and are not to be exploited, the Supreme Court has said while upholding the conviction and sentence awarded to a man for raping a mentally disabled woman. Observing that the convict had exploited the victim by taking undue advantage of her mental illness, the apex court dismissed his appeal against the September 2016 judgment of the Himachal Pradesh high court that had convicted him in the case while setting aside the trial court order acquitting him. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan noted in its verdict that as per the DNA report, the convict was the biological father of the child delivered by the 19-year-old victim, who was found to be 31-week pregnant when the matter came to light. “A person suffering from mental disorder or mental sickness deserves special care, love and affection. They are not to be exploited. In the present case, the accused has exploited the victim by taking disadvantage of her mental sickness/illness. Therefore, no interference of this court against the impugned judgment and order passed by the high court convicting the accused is called for,” said the bench, also comprising Justices R S Reddy and M R Shah. “On evidence, it has been established and proved that the victim was mentally retarded and her IQ was 62 and she was not in a position to understand the good and bad aspect of sexual assault,” the bench said in its 24-page judgement delivered on December 3. The top court said the high court was justified in re-appreciating the entire evidence on record and reverse the order of acquittal passed by the trial court. The high court, while setting aside the trial court order acquitting the man, had convicted him for the offences of rape and criminal intimidation and sentenced him to seven years in jail. According to the police, the FIR was lodged by the victim’s father in 2008 alleging that his daughter was found to be pregnant and she told her mother that the accused had raped her when she had gone to graze cattle. The prosecution said due to fear and mental weakness, the victim had not disclosed about the incident to anyone and when she was medically examined, she was found to be 31-week pregnant. She gave birth to a child in June 2008 in Shimla and after a DNA test it was found that the accused was the biological father of the infant, the police had said, adding that he was arrested in the case. During the trial, the accused had claimed innocence and denied the allegations. The trial court had acquitted him mainly on the ground of delay in lodging the FIR and also that the woman was not mentally unsound to understand the consequences.  Later, the state had moved the high court against the trial court's order. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-upholds-conviction-in-rape-case-says-people-suffering-from-mental-illness-deserve-special-care/articleshow/79586371.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Man held for selling marijuana||Vadodara: A man living on Ajwa Road was arrested by the special operations group (SOG) for selling marijuana from his home on Friday. SOG sleuths had received information that the accused Umesh Punjabi had stored marijuana at his home and was selling in small quantities to the addicts. Based on the tip-off, cops raided Punjabi’s house on Friday and found 1.9 kg of marijuana worth Rs 18,700. Police also found Rs 4,600 cash from Punjabi which he had earned from selling marijuana. Punjabi told cops that he had purchased the marijuana from a man living in Padra named Salim Saiyed. Punjabi has been kept under quarantine as his Covid-19 test report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-held-for-selling-marijuana/articleshow/79585464.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man accused in rape of 5-year-old held in Andhra Pradesh||KAKINADA: East Godavari police on Saturday arrested the accused in the rape of a five-year-old girl at Kathipudi in the district. The 29-year-old, a resident of Mutha Nagar, Kakinada, confessed to his crime. The accused, who was earlier involved in 16 cases of theft and house burglaries, has a history sheet against him at Indrapalem police station. On the intervening night of November 24 and 25, the girl was kidnapped from her grandparents’ house under One Town police station limits in Kakinada and sexually assaulted. Her family found her injured and bleeding on the street. A phone belonging to the girl’s grandfather had also gone missing the same night. A clues team and dog squad were pressed into service and several items collected from the crime scene and forwarded to the state forensic laboratory. It was found out that on the night of November 24, the accused went to the house at midnight in an inebriated condition and stole the mobile phone and kidnapped the girl while others were sleeping. The accused has been booked relevant sections of IPC and Pocso Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-accused-in-rape-of-5-yr-old-held/articleshow/79585042.cms||Samson Raj
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Projects in satellite villages drawing more home buyers||VIJAYAWADA: Growing demand in the real estate sector is changing the face of satellite villages near Vijayawada. Once relatively quiet, villages like Poranki, Tadigadapa, Yanamalakuduru, Penamaluru, Gosala, and Nidamanuru are now bustling with economic activity which is mostly around the real estate sector. With home buyers now looking for affordable houses following the economic impact of the pandemic, realtors with projects in these areas are witnessing a surge in demand. The momentum had started to pick up in these areas before the outbreak of Covid-19 following the expansion of National Highway (NH) 65. The highway expansion not only eased traffic flow but also paved the way for new commercial establishments as most buildings have to be constructed since old buildings were demolished for the expansion. However, the pandemic dealt a blow to the real estate sector across the capital region which faced uncertainties over capital. Demand for houses had plummeted as economic activity had come to a near halt as a result of the lockdown. Now, with activity starting to pick up following the unlock guidelines, satellite villages are among the first areas to witness a rise in demand for real estate. Ch Subbarao, a builder from Poranki, said that they are now witnessing more enquiries than pre-Covid times. Many of these enquiries are even translating into transactions, according to the builder. Realtors said that a drop in prices has also pushed up demand for houses in these areas. According to P Vamshi, a real estate agent, prices have come down to all-time lows due to the pandemic. “As most builders had to deploy their entire capital in ongoing projects, prices did not go up even after demand began to pick up,” Vamshi said and added that several builders were desperate to liquidate their projects sooner rather than later. The price difference between areas in the city and those in satellite villages lies in the range of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh which has driven many home buyers to choose the latter. With commercial establishments like supermarkets, branded clothing stores, home appliance stores and gyms setting up shop in these areas, many are getting drawn towards these satellite villages as it means they do not have to travel all the way to the city for their needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/projects-in-satellite-villages-drawing-more-home-buyers/articleshow/79585030.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 6, 2020||Trichy||Samayapuram temple’s queue complex construction to take 6 months more||Trichy: The queue complex facility under construction at Arulmigu Mariamman temple in Samayapuram near Trichy will be delayed by at least by six months as the authorities citing the impact of Covid-19 have extended the deadline for completion of the project. Since many of the migrant workers employed in the project had left for their native states during the lockdown, the progress of construction work was impacted.Emulating the model of Tirumala Venkateswara temple, a queue complex was proposed in the Samayapuram temple, that sees a footfall of over a lakh devotees during auspicious events and festivals. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department, in early 2019, took up the civil work for queue complex and other amenities including a restaurant at a cost of Rs 13.8 crore in the temple.While the work was scheduled to conclude by November 2020, the pandemic and subsequent lockdowns seem to have dragged on the work. The majority of the workforce being migrant labourers from northern states, most of them had left for their native states post the Covid-19 outbreak, leaving the authorities to manage with the available workforce.Even though the structural work and exterior construction activities were completed, laying of tiles on the roof is still underway. Flooring and electrification work too are likely to take additional time. HR&CE sources said that the civil work for a cloakroom sprawling 1,000 sq ft, a parking lot for 50,000 sq ft, and a 3,000 sq ft multilevel restaurant were also delayed due to the lockdown. “Constraints faced during the pandemic was the only reason for not completing the work before the deadline. We are planning to finish it by May 2021,” an official said.The 600-metre queue complex will have seating arrangements, toilets and a waiting hall. The 10-feet tall sidewalls of the complex will have provision for natural ventilation through the perforated surface, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/samayapuram-temples-queue-complex-construction-to-take-6-months-more/articleshow/79587159.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-minister Kamatham Reddy dies||Hyderabad: Former minister Kamatham Ram Reddy passed away after battling a prolonged illness in the city on Saturday. He was 83. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed his condolences over his death. His funeral will be held in Mahabubnagar district. He was ailing for some time and died due to age related issues. Ram Reddy, who represented the Pargi constituency, was a cabinet minister three times. He moved to the BJP in 2014 from the Congress. He joined TRS later, but was not active in politics. He was first elected from Parigi as an Independent in 1967 and later as Congress candidate in 1972 and 1989. He was also an MLC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-minister-kamatham-reddy-dies/articleshow/79587147.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Four on premium ride, turn ‘diesel thieves’ at petrol pump!||RAJKOT: Not all who ride a nice long car also carry big fat purses. Some, like this quartet in Rajkot, also have to run away from petrol pumps without being able to clear fuel bills! It so happened on Saturday when the four men in a premium luxury car rode into a petrol pump and with the airs and graces of gilded gentry ordered filling up of diesel worth a whopping Rs4,240. While the tank brimmed, their egos, however, got deflated when it came to paying the bill. They could somehow cough up only a measly Rs800 after the debit card of one of the occupants too got dishonoured at the swipe machine. The incident which took place at the petrol pump near Patel Kanya Chhatralaya on Gondal Road in Rajkot on Friday night, forced the four accused, Yashpalsinh Jadeja, Himanshu, Luckyrajsinh and Digvijaysinh to turn fugitives of law after they drove away without clearing their dues, said Vipul Jotangia, manager of the petrol pump, who lodged a complaint with the police. In his FIR Jotangia stated, “While I was talking to Pravin Jasani, owner of our petrol pump, just outside our office, attendant Renish Patel called me urgently. He told me that the occupants of a premium luxury car paid only Rs 250 against their bill of Rs 4,240 worth diesel.” He told the police that when he asked the occupants to pay the full amount, one of them gave his debit card. However, it was declined and he returned it to him. “When I still insisted on full payment, all of them rummaged pockets to produce only Rs 800. When I asked for the remaining amount, the occupants then started hurling abuses at me,” alleged Jotangia. Jotangia said he learned the names of the occupants hearing them address each other inside the vehicle. “Stating that he would pay the money later, Jadeja switched on the ignition and the others, who had alighted to quarrel with me, clambered into the vehicle. Meanwhile, one of the accused got down from the car and started walking away from the petrol pump, and seeing this, the others drove away at full speed from the spot. I waited for them to return with the money, but in vain and decided to approach the cops,” he added. The police have booked the accused under sections 406, 504 and 114 of the Indian Penal Code and launched a manhunt for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-on-premium-ride-turn-diesel-thieves-at-petrol-pump/articleshow/79585374.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nashik||Nashik adds 371 Covid cases||NASHIK: The district reported 371 fresh Covid-19 cases while 311 patients were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Six people succumbed to the infection, including four from Nashik city and four from the rural areas of the district. Of the fresh cases, the city reported 14 cases. As many as 150 patients were discharged in the city. The recovery rate of the district stands at 95%, while the recovery rate of Nashik city and the rural part is 95.97% and 93.2%, respectively. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-adds-371-covid-cases/articleshow/79584787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Madurai||Detained migrant workers rescued from Sivakasi||Madurai: Thirty-three migrant workers from north India, including ten women, who were kept against their wishes in Sivakasi were rescued by the authorities in Virudhunagar on Friday. They were brought to Sivakasi by agents to be employed in the many labour-intensive industries there like fireworks, match and paper. The agents also handled the salaries and agreements of these workers who hail from various north Indian states. A few months ago, 30 men and women from Bihar belonging to five families had come to Sivakasi through an agent named Sunilkumar Yadav. Similarly, 20 people from Chhattisgarh had also come to the fireworks capital of the country. They were made to stay in a private premises and sent for jobs in different industries at various places. On receiving information that they were not being paid wages and not offered proper food, Muniaraj of Vanmugil Trust brought it to the notice of the district legal services authority (DLSA).Principal district magistrate Muthusaratha ordered an inquiry into the matter following which a ``one-step crisis team’’ conducted surprise raids on industries in Sukravarpatti and M Pudupatti. The team led by K Mariappan of DLSA and sub-collector C Dinesh Kumar also comprised judicial officers from Sivakasi, S Kalyana Marimuthu, V Paramveer and S Sandhanakumar besides police personnel from the anti-human trafficking unit. The workers there told them that they have not been given their promised salaries and expressed their wish to return to their states. They were taken to a marriage hall and the agents were made to give them their salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/detained-migrant-workers-rescued-from-sivakasi/articleshow/79587488.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Maoists release music videos to counter security forces||Nagpur: The Maoists have released two music videos, prepared by their cultural wing Chetna Natya Manch (CNM), to mark the 20th anniversary of the Peoples’ Liberation of Guerrilla Army (PLGA). The security agencies are viewing the latest propaganda as a part of ‘psychological warfare’ of rebels against the forces.Few weeks ago, the Central Military Commission of the Maoists had released a data stating that the rebels lost 4,483 cadres, including 839 women, in the last 20 years in their fight against security forces in the affected states. Such detailed statistical analysis of the Maoists’ military wing, also released on 20th anniversary of the PLGA, was an unprecedented move.In the last couple of days, the Maoists have distributed pamphlets and erected banners in support of the PLGA anniversary and the ongoing PLGA week being observed between December 2 and 8 to garner support and boost recruitment.The music videos are likely to have been shot in Sukma in Chhattisgarh and circulated across Central India. The videos feature tribal dance groups and the lyrics are in Gondi language used by the bulk of the population in Central India’s hinterland having sizeable support base for Maoists.Maoists have circulated propaganda videos earlier too in parts of Central India spanning Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and parts of Odisha and Telangana, which they tag as ‘Dandakaranya’ or the forests of punishments. But this time, the security agencies are stunned by the professional quality of the audio-visual message.“The videos also have shots and images of large gathering of tribals dancing to songs eulogizing PLGA and appealing masses, especially youngsters to join the armed rebellion. This is a deliberate move claiming mass support to counter security agencies which are stating that rebels are fast losing popularity in their own backyard,” said a senior security agency personnel on the condition of anonymity. “The videos also show that the Maoists are trying to use social media as their next major platform for publicity,” said the personnel.In one of the videos, the Maoists have made a short musical documentary on the life and achievements of Ravula Srinivas alias Kunta alias Ramanna, who was one of the most prominent rebels of Chhattisgarh. Ramanna had boosted the movement in Central India before dying of cardiac arrest in 2019. Another video highlights the various military achievements of Maoists in Chhattisgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/maoists-release-music-videos-to-counter-security-forces/articleshow/79586433.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 6, 2020||Trichy||Removal of bins backfires but Trichy Corpn blames residents||Trichy: Ever since Trichy Corporation removed public bins from all the 65 wards here, subscribing to Swachh Survekshan parameters, mini dump yards have been cropping up on arterial and residential roads across the city mocking the city’s tall cleanliness claims. Indeed, the city remains free of garbage bins, but slackness in door-to-door waste collection has resulted in litter overflowing in places where garbage bins were once positioned.By April 2019, around 1,200 public garbage bins were removed, stating that the presence of garbage bins encourage people to avoid handing over waste at doorsteps, causing secondary transport for the civic body to ship the waste to compost centres. However, as the door-to-door waste collection has lapses including irregular waste collection and people failing to hand over the waste, the places that once had bins are continuously littered. All the arterial roads and residential streets have mounds of waste piled up which the civic body removes twice in a week. “When we had public garbage bins, the city was clean. Once the civic body ambitiously removed all the bins, the city is stinking and the cleanliness rank has nosedived. Bins should be placed back,” said H Ghouse Baig, a resident of Khajamalai.Vacant spaces between roads and private properties, stormwater drains and walking tracks have been constantly targeted by people to dump waste. While residents blame the civic body for a flawed waste collection system, the civic body in turn blames the people for being lethargic in handing over waste at the doorstep. Locals opined that the surge in stray cattle menace was fuelled by waste mounds at spots that once had public garbage bins. “We will revive the awareness promotion through religious institutes to segregate waste at source and avoid littering. There are no flaws in the waste collection at the doorstep,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/removal-of-bins-backfires-but-trichy-corpn-blames-residents/articleshow/79587161.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 6, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: NGT seeks report on solid waste management||SHIMLA: On the issue of managing solid waste in Solan, the National Green Tribunal has stated that remedial action needs to be taken by the Solan Municipal Council. The deputy commissioner, state pollution control board and director, urban development, Himachal Pradesh have been asked to oversee such action. The Tribunal has also sought an action taken report with all the details, including legacy waste cleared, biomined, quantity of compost produced and its utilisation within two months. The principal bench of the Tribunal, headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, issued the aforesaid directions in a recent order.  The Tribunal stated that leachate management should be attended to. The state PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance and the matter will be heard on February 18, 2021. According to the application filed before the National Green Tribunal, the orders issued on October 26, 2017 on the subject of solid waste management in Solan were not complied with. Through an order dated September 4 this year, a factual and action taken report was sought from the state PCB and district magistrate, Solan. Accordingly, a report was filed by the state PCB on November 6 saying that shortcomings have been noticed and recommendations have been made. In the report, the Tribunal was informed that the Solan Municipal Council processing-cum-disposal facility is not operational in line with procedure specified in the Solid Waste Management (Rules), 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/ngt-seeks-report-on-solid-waste-mgmt/articleshow/79586417.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Weekend rush for health cover at Swasthya Sathi enrolment camps||Kolkata: Gouranga Narayan Das, all of 95 years, tottered down early on Saturday to queue up at the Swasthya Sathi camp in Azadgarh well before it was to open. He didn’t want to miss the opportunity to enrol for health insurance at any cost. But just before the camp was to start functioning, Das began feeling uncomfortable. Luckily, borough coordinator Tapan Dasgupta was around. He arranged for Das to sit and wait till the enrolment started. A former employee of a private firm, Das, who stays with three sons at Bijoygarh, needs the medical insurance coverage offered by the state as the family can’t afford to pay the astronomical premium of a personal medical insurance policy given his age. “It is in these sunset years of one’s life that one learns the importance of health insurance. Yet, not many have the ability to cough up the huge premium needed to maintain one. This insurance scheme devised by the state government has the potential to bail out so many senior citizens,” Das remarked. By the time the camp at Azadgarh started functioning, over 500 people had queued up to enrol in the scheme. Dasgupta, the ward coordinator, was clearly a stride ahead of colleagues in the race to deliver Swasthya Sathi card. Sensing the huge demand, he had received applications in advance and processed them as well. On Saturday, he actually handed over the cards to beneficiaries that had cleared the preliminary screening. “I had made it a point that after a round of screening I will deliver Swasthya Sathi cards to thousands of beneficiaries in my ward and borough’s jurisdiction. I have purchased printers to expedite the proceedings,” Dasgupta said. Even in Chetla, Swasthya Sathi forms were distributed two days ago to facilitate delivery of insurance cards as soon as possible. Hundreds gathered at the camps at Chetla since morning. According to a KMC source, over 2,000 forms were distributed in past three days. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of Board of Administrators (BoA) governing the KMC, oversaw the distribution system. At Bijoygargh, a large crowd has been gathering in front of a KMC-run community hall to enrol themselves for the scheme for past few days. A section of those who were in the queue belonged to middle or lower middle-class families, apart from large number of people who were from different slums of the neighbourhood. Sudeshna Ghosh, a retired state government employee and a resident of Bijoygarh who has been one of applicants, said once the government rolled out the facility, it would definitely give her and family a huge relief. “The soon the state rolls out the scheme the better for us,” she said. In different north Kolkata neighbourhoods, including Bagbazar, Taltala, Rabindra Sarani, Narkeldanga and Beliaghata, long queues were witnessed in front of the camps. Some ward coordinators like Bapi Ghosh had kept vehicles ready to carry old and infirm applicants from their residences to the camp at Bagbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/weekend-rush-for-health-cover-at-swasthya-sathi-enrolment-camps/articleshow/79585378.cms||Saikat Ray
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||99-year-old Howrah resident beats Covid, returns home to celebrate a century||KOLKATA: Howrah resident Bhabatarini Samanta, who will turn a centenarian 26 days from now, on Saturday became the oldest in the state to conquer Covid. Aged 99 years, 11 months and four days, the resilient woman was wheeled out of Howrah’s Sanjiban Hospital – a Covid-designated hospital — much to the delight of doctors and her family members. She tested negative on Friday. Covid has claimed close to 8,700 lives in Bengal. “Ami bhalo achhi, sobai bhalo theko (I am okay. Everyone stay safe). I am thankful to doctors and nurses for taking such care of me,” the elderly lady said while leaving the hospital on Saturday. The 99-year-old Bagnan resident had tested positive on November 23. Two other family members — her 77-year-old daughter and 57-year-old grandson — had earlier tested positive and both were treated at the same hospital. So, when the elderly woman had fever, another grandson who was not infected got her samples tested. She was admitted to the hospital in Howarh’s Phuleshwar on November 24. “Keeping her age in mind, we admitted her to the HDU. Though she did not require other critical care support, she had to be on high flow oxygen support for about seven days. Our medical team had to be extremely careful about her so that she does not get any hospital-acquired infection that could have been fatal at her age,” said Subhasish Mitra, director of Sanjiban Hospital. The patient was free of Covid symptoms on the first three to four days. Doctors kept weaning her off the oxygen support gradually. Once they were sure that the patient could maintain the required oxygen saturation level on her own, she was taken off the support. Samanta’s husband passed away in 1986. Since then, she has been living with her only daughter at the latter’s family in Bagnan. She leads an extremely disciplined life and is very conscious about her diet and nutrition. “My grandmother is a loving and caring woman but very strict. She is a fiercely independent woman and prefers to do her own chores. She is a small eater, careful about what she eats. We are happy to get her back home,” said her grandson who runs a medicine store in Bagnan. Samanta still walks, though with a little difficulty, changes clothes on her won. She does not need any help for things like bathing. She even reprimands the young ones in the family if they try to stop her from doing her own chores. “I was the first to test positive. Then, my mother fell ill. I was hospitalised for six days while my mother was in hospital care for 14 days. My mother got discharged this Monday,” said the grandson. Apart from the grandson TOI spoke to, Samanta has one more grandson and two granddaughters who are married. The nonagenarian, according to doctors, suffers from moderate hypertension and hearing impairment which, they said, are common in old age. She has suffered stroke four times in the past, the last one being about 10 years ago. After that, she has not had any major health issues. During her stay in the hospital, she would always obey what the doctors said without throwing any tantrums. She is extremely alert and her mental faculty is absolutely fine, which the medical team found amazing. Even as testing negative is no more a criterion for discharge, the hospital conducted a Covid test to ensure that she was negative before discharge, considering her age. “There have been a number of patients in their 80s and 90s who have defeated Covid-19. But she is the oldest patient so far in our record,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/99-year-old-beats-covid-returns-home-to-celebrate-a-century/articleshow/79585370.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 6, 2020||Aurangabad||Finish Samruddhi work till Shirdi before May 1: Maharashtra CM||AURANGABAD/AMRAVATI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday expressed confidence that the Hinduhridaysamrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Mahamarg would be the best in the country and asked the authorities to ensure that the work is completed before Maharashtra Day (May 1). Speaking in Amravati, the CM said, “Work on this highway is being completed expeditiously and it would open (from Nagpur) till Shirdi in the next six months.” Thackeray arrived at Golwadi in Vaijapur taluka from Amravati by helicopter around 2pm and was accompanied by public works minister Eknath Shinde. The CM himself drove the car and inspected the highway. During the review meeting, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation managing director Radhesham Mopalwar, along with L&T, gave a detailed presentation on the Samrudhi Highway Package 10 to the CM. Other ministers, including Sandipan Bhumre and Abdul Sattar, and office-bearers from the region were present for the review meeting that lasted for over an hour at a makeshift camp office of the construction site at Golewadi. A total of 24,255 acre land has been acquired for 701km stretch from Mumbai to Nagpur that will connect 393 villages. Thackeray first reached Nagpur from Mumbai in a government plane and proceeded to Amravati in a helicopter, which landed on the highway. The Nagpur-Mumbai highway is 74km long in Amravati district. The CM inspected the stretch, travelled 6km and expressed satisfaction over the quality of the work. “We have given top priority to this work which was on even during the (Covid) lockdown period. This has resulted in completion of most of the work. This project is one which Maharashtra can feel proud of,” said Thackeray. “The entire highway would be ready for traffic from Nagpur to Mumbai by next year. Efforts are being made to complete the other road works in the state expeditiously,” said Thackeray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/finish-samruddhi-work-till-shirdi-before-maha-day-cm/articleshow/79584809.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Lens on influx of domestic help after spike in cases||Kolkata: Domestic help from the city’s south suburban areas and the adjoining district (South 24 Parganas) have come under civic lens after a significant spurt in Covid-19 cases in several south Kolkata neighbourhoods. According to a study conducted by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s Covid-19 prevention squad, the recent spurt in large areas of Ballygunge, Elgin Road, Jadavpur, Baghajatin, Garia and Patuli had much to do with the influx of domestic help from southern suburbs after resumption of local train services. “We have reasons to believe that a section of domestic help has become active carriers of the virus after coming in close contact with asymptomatic positive patients in trains, stations and later in the markets where often sent to shop,” said a KMC health department official. This sudden spike has compelled the civic authorities to declare fresh containment zones in Ballygunge, Elgin Road and Patuli (now in green zone). “We have declared three containment zones in parts of south Kolkata and its suburbs in the past one week after detection of several cases in apartment buildings and high-rises. Several of these cases are from servant quarters. We are keeping a close eye on domestic help and will need to bring them under Covid-19 tests in large numbers,” a KMC official said. According to a KMC health department official, the task of identifying and bringing a section of domestic help under mandatory tests was proving to be difficult since a majority of them who have been tested positive were asymptomatic. Others who are testing positive are returning to their villages, making contact tracing a near impossible task. KMC and police sources said though they were still gathering conclusive evidence, linking the fresh spike in cases after the pujas to the resumption of local train services, the fact that in the past 10 days saw several maid servants testing positive — even from within the containment zones — have made the civic body plan more rapid antigen tests. At the Patuli testing facility, the civic officials admitted that over 100 domestic help and vegetable vendors were tested in three weeks. “KMC is now maintaining a separate data in this context, attaching particular importance to Garia, Baghajatin, Jadavpur, Dhakuria and Ballygunge stations,” claimed sources. “The numbers are getting tagged on to Kolkata but we are unable to carry out follow-up testing as they are returning from here,” said a police officer from the south suburban division. But it is not that the civic body alone which is planning preventive steps. Several households across Dhakuria, Jadavpur, Purba Jadavpur and Mukundapur are testing their full-time maids before accepting them back in the household. Most of these domestic help hail from the interiors of South 24 Parganas and are slowly returning back to their jobs after resumption of train services, said a police officer. Take the example of senior citizens Amiya Kumar Pal and Kalyani Pal of Jadavpur. “We have two full time maids. Both of them had taken leave after lockdown for three weeks and they returned to their villages. They returned to our second flat at Jadavpur where we kept them in isolation for three days. On the third morning, we got both of them tested from a private lab. Both tested positive. We arranged for ambulances but their family insisted on their return. They told us that both are placed in safe homes but we have not heard much from them ever since,” said Amiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lens-on-influx-of-domestic-help-after-spike-in-cases/articleshow/79585389.cms||Saikat Ray
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||SC/ST scholarship scam: 156 FIRs lodged, 98 people held so far in U’khand||Haridwar: The two special investigation teams (SITs) probing the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam in Uttarakhand have so far registered 156 FIRs and arrested 98 accused in the scam, according to data provided by police. Sanjay Gunjyal, head of one of the two SITs probing the scam, told TOI, “Our teams have completed around 80% of the investigation.” While the first SIT has registered 73 FIRs so far and arrested 57 accused, the second SIT has arrested 41 accused and has registered 83 FIRs so far. Among those arrested are college owners as well as officers of the social welfare department. The scam had first come to the fore when some Dalit students approached RTI activist Pankaj Lamba in 2014 with complaints that they didn't receive scholarships despite proper documentation. However, no probe was ordered in the matter by the then Congress government. Later when the present government took office in 2017, a probe was ordered into the fraud allegations. Subsequently, it was found in the probe that hundreds of private and government-aided colleges went to great lengths — from forging Aadhaar cards to passing off minors, labourers and rickshaw pullers as students — to siphon off crores of rupees meant as scholarship funds for students from the SC and ST communities. In the meantime, Dehradun-based activist Ravindra Jugran appealed in the high court, which ordered a probe into the scam. During the investigation, most of the fraud cases were found to have surfaced from Haridwar, Dehradun, Udham Singh Nagar, and Nainital districts. The scam is estimated to have involved siphoning of funds upwards of Rs 350 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc/st-scholarship-scam-156-firs-lodged-98-people-held-so-far-in-ukhand/articleshow/79584805.cms||MS Nawaz
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Under 1k new Covid-19 cases for the first time in December||Nagpur: Vidarbha region reported 977 new Covid-19 cases on December 5. For the first time in December, the number of new cases stood below 1,000. On the other hand, 1,130 patients recovered in a day. In all, 18 deaths, including 10 from Nagpur district were reported. Death toll also was the lowest in last five days. But 100 deaths due to Covid-19 in just 5 days of December added to the worries of administration. With deaths in Nagpur (10), Gondia (2), Chandrapur (2), Akola (2), Wardha (1), and Amravati (1), Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll reached 6,147 on Saturday. Case fatality rate remained at 2.6%, which is still higher than state and national average. In Nagpur, 5 deaths were reported from city, 2 from district (rural) and 3 from other states/districts. The day’s 977 cases came from Nagpur (527), Chandrapur (79), Gondia (71), Amravati (60), Gadchiroli (48), Bhandara (43), Wardha (37), Buldhana (36), Akola (31), Yavatmal (29), and Washim (16), while 1,130 recoveries were reported from Nagpur (339), Chandrapur (150), Bhandara (133), Gondia (133), Buldhana (108), Gadchiroli (63), Amravati (63), Yavatmal (60), Wardha (44), Washim (22), and Akola (15). With this, 2,14,031 patients out of the cumulative 2,32,255 have recovered so far. The recovery rate is 92.2%. Chandrapur: The district’s Covid caseload climbed to 20,686 with the detection of 79 new cases on Saturday. In all, 150 patients were discharged during the day and now the total recoveries stand at 18,532. There are now 1,838 patients under treatment. The day also witnessed two deaths, taking the toll to 316. Amravati: 60 new cases took the district's caseload to 18,179 on Saturday. One Covid death — a 60-year-old man from village Khodgaon — took the Covid toll to 381. The district also reported 63 recoveries, taking the total to 17,296 for a recovery rate of 95.1%. This left 502 active cases, including 270 in home isolation. Yavatmal: On Saturday, 613 test reports were received, of which 29 were positive. Currently 356 patients are undergoing treatment in the Covid-19 care centres in the district. 11,689 have been found positive so far, of whom 10,957 have recovered. 60 patients were discharged on Saturday. Wardha: A 75-year-old woman from the city died due to coronavirus during treatment on Saturday, while 37 new patients tested positive for Covid-19 and 44 were discharged after recovery. The caseload of district reached to 8,094 and recoveries to 7,383. Active patients are now 456. The district has recorded 255 deaths due to coronavirus so far. On Saturday, out of 635 test reports, 23 men and 14 women tested positive, and the cases were reported from Wardha (23), Deoli and Hinganghat (5 each), Selu (2), Arvi and Karanja (1 each). Bhandara: With 133 patients recovering in a day on Saturday, Bhandara’s total number of recovered patients breached the 10k-mark. 43 new patients were detected, taking the number of total Covid-19 cases to 11,087. No death was reported on Saturday. 826 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district saw 71 fresh cases and recovery of 133 patients today. Two patients, aged 50 and 54, died due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. Reports of 164 samples are still awaited. The district now has 12,749 total cases, 11,847 recoveries, and 164 deaths due to Covid-19. 738 patients are under treatment. More than 65% of under-treatment patients are under home isolation in Gondia. Gadchiroli: The district reported 48 new cases of Covid-19, while 63 patients recovered from the infection. The tally reached 8,188, with 7,664 of them recovered, and recovery rate surpassing 93%. No death was reported in district on Saturday. Gadchiroli’s death toll is 85. In all, 439 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district received over 450 reports, of which 31 tested positive. With this, Akola’s total caseload reached 9,626 on Saturday. The district reported 15 recoveries, taking the total number of recovered patients to 8,694. Akola reported 2 Covid deaths on Saturday. These include a 72-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman. Now, the death toll is 298. In all, 634 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district reported 36 new cases, while 108 patients recovered. No death was reported. Total cases reached 11,492, including 11,055 recoveries and 137 deaths. Now, exactly 300 patients are under treatment. Washim: With 16 new cases reported in last 24 hours, Washim’s Covid-19 case count reached 6,247 on Saturday. On the other hand, 22 patients recovered. With no death reported, Washim has 235 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/under-1k-new-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-in-december/articleshow/79586431.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 6, 2020||Trichy||Parties urged to field mutharaiyars as candidates||Trichy: The mutharaiyar joint action committee (MJAC), comprising 10 organisations that work towards the development of mutharaiyar community, convened a political awareness conference in Trichy on Saturday. A resolution urging political parties to field candidates belonging to the community in 33 assembly segments in the ensuing election was passed. MJAC also batted for appointment of more people from the community to the post of state functionaries and district secretaries of parties in districts that have significant presence for them. The meeting also passed a resolution to launch a movement pitching for “mutharaiyar votes for mutharaiyar”. The committee has suggested affixing stickers with pictures of King Perumbidugu Mutharaiyar in the houses of people belonging to the 25 lakh-strong community. “Mutharaiyars account for around 15% population in the state. Parties should field candidates from the community in at least 33 constituencies in the upcoming assembly election,” committee convener Dr S Panneerselvam saidTNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parties-urged-to-field-mutharaiyars-as-candidates/articleshow/79587178.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||India||‘40% of plaints on government consumer helpline tied to e-commerce sector’||NEW DELHI: About four out of every 10 consumer complaints received through the government’s consumer helpline are related to the e-commerce sector. According to government data, the e-commerce related complaints have almost doubled in the past eight months since the Covid pandemic hit the country and a large section of consumers shifted to buying products and services online. The data from the National Consumer Helpline (NCH) show that out of the 62,310 registered grievances in October, 24,658 were related to e-commerce. Before the nationwide lockdown, the share of such complaints had reduced to around 20%. According to the NCH, more than 26% of the complaints relating to the e-commerce sector were regarding no refund of the paid amount and another 19% grievances were against non-delivery or delayed delivery of products by the online sellers. Nearly 14% grievances were against deficiency in services and 10% were related to delivery of wrong products. Another 9% of the complaints were against delivery of defective products. “It’s very strange that complaints against e-commerce players are rising and these entities must address the grievances quickly. There could be a very high number of such complaints, which are not getting registered, and we are registering only those which are coming to us through calls and e-mails. Since the online transactions are increasing, the sector players need to address the concerns,” said Prof Suresh Misra, project director of NCH at Indian Institute of Public Administration (IIPA). Sources in NCH said since major e-commerce firms are on the convergence platform the grievances registered here are resolved fast. “There are certain delays in cases where the consumers demand interest for delay in refund,” said a source. The consumer affairs ministry has notified the rules for the e-commerce sector under the Consumer Protection Act making the companies responsible for faster redressal of grievances and to have a robust refund and return policy. Now it has been made mandatory to have a dedicated executive to address the complaints of the consumers and the details need to be displayed for consumers. The designated executive has to acknowledge receipt of any complaint within 48 hours and redress the same within one month. The rules also specify that all payments towards accepted refund requests of the consumers has to be made as per the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/40-of-plaints-on-government-consumer-helpline-tied-to-e-commerce-sector/articleshow/79587670.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Wedding leaves 2 of groom’s family dead from Covid; bride, groom, many others test positive||Dehradun: Wedding festivities of a merchant navy officer and daughter of an Army officer held in the city recently, turned sour as the couple tested positive for Covid-19 soon after tying the knot. The groom's mother, sister, aunt and two maternal uncles were also subsequently found infected. While the aunt is admitted in Doon Hospital and is undergoing dialysis, both the uncles died of Covid-19 within 10 days of attending the wedding. Speaking to TOI, the bridegroom said that soon after the wedding (which was held on November 20 in a city hotel), he and his wife were planning a trip to Himachal Pradesh and had taken the Covid-19 test as a precaution before travelling. “No one in the family was symptomatic. We had taken the Covid-19 test just as a preventive measure. It therefore came as a surprise that not just I and my wife but also my mother, sister, aunt and two uncles were found infected. The news of both my uncles dying from the virus has left us shaken,” he said, adding that nearly 100 people who had attended the wedding have now been contacted. “We have requested all of the wedding guests to get tested for the virus after we got our reports between November 23 and November 24. In a silver lining, no one from my wife’s family has tested positive so far,” the bridegroom said. Surprisingly, health authorities when queried about the Covid spread in the wedding claimed ignorance about the incident initially although subsequently, Dehradun district surveillance officer Dr RK Dixit said that the health department is taking action in the matter. “After speaking with the groom’s family, we have traced 50 contacts, who will be tested,” Dixit told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wedding-leaves-2-of-grooms-family-dead-from-covid-bride-groom-many-others-test-positive/articleshow/79584811.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 6, 2020||Madurai||Madurai RCC to offer advanced cancer care free to poor patients||Madurai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday opened the Rs 30-crore Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) attached to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) at Balarengapuram in Madurai. The centre is intended to help poor patients get advanced cancer care free of cost.GRH dean Dr J Sangumani said in a statement that an ultra-modern flagship true beam linear accelerator has been installed at the facility to treat any form of cancer precisely without side-effects to the surrounding structures. It can take up high precision radiation techniques like 3D conformal treatment, Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT), Image-Guided Radiation Therapy (IGRT), rapid arc/volumetric modulated arc therapy, stereotactic body radiotherapy and stereotactic radio surgery.Brachytherapy and CT simulator machines have also been set up at the facility. Cervical and endometrial cancers can be treated using brachytherapy with less morbidity. Head and neck cancer patients can be treated with less side effects. Liver cancer tumour of up to 2 cm in size and pancreatic cancer tumours of 2 cm in size can be effectively treated using stereotactic body radiotherapy without the need for surgery.Breast conservation treatment procedures can also be done. Brain tumours less than 3cm can be precisely treated while limb conservation surgeries for bone and soft tissue sarcomas can be managed effectively. Lung cancers and oesophageal cancers can be treated effectively without side effects using advanced IMRT, IGRT techniques.Such advanced cancer treatment which will cost lakhs of rupees in private hospitals is now available free of cost to poor patients here. The RCC is authorized to treat cancer patient under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). It also has inpatient facilities to serve the patients who come from long distances. The department is headed by Dr K Mahalakshmi Prasad, professor of radiotherapy. During the past few months, the centre was running the facility on a trial basis during which around 25 patients received treatment and have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-rcc-to-offer-advanced-cancer-care-free-to-poor-patients/articleshow/79587491.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Trichy||BJP state prez offers puja at temples||Thanjavur: BJP state president L Murugan performed puja at Swamimalai Swaminathaswamy temple on Saturday as part of ‘Vel Yatra’ in Thanjavur. Due to heavy rain in the delta districts, party members did not take out a procession. The programme which was initially scheduled for the previous week was postponed in the wake of Cyclone Nivar hitting the region. The temple dedicated to Lord Muruga is at Kumbakonam and one of the six abodes of Muruga. BJP had commenced the yatra on November 6 at Tiruttani and is scheduled to culminate on December 6 at Tiruchendur covering all the six abodes of Lord Muruga in the state. Led by L Murugan and BJP national secretary H Raja, the district functionaries and cadres performed puja and offered prayers at the temple. L Murugan later arrived in Madurai and offered worship at the Palamudhirsolai temple in Alagarkoil as part of the Swami darshan tour. He proceeded to the Subramaniaswamy temple in Thiruparankundram where he offered worship along with supporters. He will proceed to the Tiruchendur Senthil Andavar temple in Tuticorin on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bjp-state-prez-offers-puja-at-temples/articleshow/79587183.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Meerut||Bulandhahr jeweller robbed at gunpoint in market, 4 cops suspended||Meerut: Four policemen, including an SHO and a sub-inspector, were suspended on Saturday by Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar Singh for dereliction of duty after a local jeweller was robbed at gunpoint in Shikarpur’s main market area in the district. Those suspended are SHO, Shikarpur, Yogendra Kumar Singh, a sub-inspector at the police station and two constables who were on patrol duty at the time. The jeweller, Atul Kumar Garg, was robbed on Wednesday evening when he was on his way home after wrapping up the day's work at his store. Suddenly, he was waylaid by armed assailants on a motorcycle in the main market in Shikarpur area. He was hit with the butt of a pistol when he tried resisting the robbery. The assailants got away with 600 grams of gold and 7 kg of silver. Senior officers conceded to the lackadaisical attitude of the local policemen despite a warning to maintain strict vigil, especially during the evening hours.“Suspects are being identified based on the CCTV footage in the area. People are being interrogated. No arrests have so far been made,” said SSP Santosh Kumar. The robbery is one of the many attacks, including fatal ones, especially on bullion traders in western UP. In September last year, jeweller Aman Jain was shot at and killed at his store in Jagriti Vihar in Meerut. Last month, a jeweller, Abhishek Kesarwani, was shot at in his store in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bulandhahr-jeweller-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-market-4-cops-suspended/articleshow/79584824.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||Four scribes booked for obstructing cops||Rajkot: Four scribes including two photo journalists of a vernacular publication in Rajkot are booked under section 186 of IPC (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and various sections of Information Technology Act and Gujarat Police Act by the Rajkot taluka police on Friday night. The police in its FIR alleged that the accused entered the police station in the wee hours of December 2 without permission where the accused of Covid-19 hospital fire were being interrogated. “They recorded video on mobile phone and took pictures and made them viral on social media. By doing this they tried to harm the investigation and defame the police,” the FIR reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-scribes-booked-for-obstructing-cops/articleshow/79585433.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||After 9 months, organ transplant activity set to resume||Nagpur: Hit by Covid-19, the organ donation and transplant activity is all set to resume in next two weeks in Nagpur. While the city is most likely to see its first live kidney transplant surgery since March 2020 before the end of this year, the zonal transplant coordination centre (ZTCC) has already started sensitizing the hospitals across Nagpur to report brain-dead cases so that they can proceed further with the organ donation activity. “We conducted a meeting of nephrology department and other stakeholders to start the living donor kidney transplant process. The waiting list is getting longer so, it’s important to start the transplant activity soon,” said GMCH Dean Dr Sajal Mitra. According to a rough estimate at the hospital, more than 15 recipients are ready with the living donors but the transplant was not possible due to the pandemic. Kidney transplant surgeon Dr Sanjay Kolte said that the specific protocol for transplant in Covid-19 times has already received and the hospitals are getting ready with them. “Stringent protocol to avoid infection in both receiver and donor will be followed. Pre-hospitalization, isolation before the surgery and special care post-surgery is must,” he said. GMCH is planning to observe 14-day isolation of both donor and receiver before the transplant. After surgery, the recipient is on immunosuppressant drugs and susceptible for infection. So, strict isolation protocol and independent ICU for such patients is being planned. ZTCC, which coordinates deceased organ donation activity, is also gearing up for revival of organ transplants. “We have contacted the hospitals across the city and appealed them to report every brain-dead case without fail. This will help us in reviving the organ donation activity,” said Dr Vibhavari Dani, president of ZTCC Nagpur. According to her, brain-dead incidents due to road accidents have been significantly reduced during lockdown. “It’s a good thing that accidents have reduced. But, many other brain-dead cases in hospitals are not reported due to pandemic threat. Now, we want hospitals to come forward and report to us,” she added. Specific protocol has been framed by the zonal transplant centres which include screening of deceased donor for possible Covid-19 infection. ZTCC Nagpur has done good work in last five years, especially in 2019. However, activity completely stopped due to Covid in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-9-months-organ-transplant-activity-set-to-resume/articleshow/79585404.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Sales drop but revenue up after liquor price rise||Jalpaiguri : The state has witnessed an average de-growth of 15% in the sale of India-made foreign liquor since the reopening of off-shops in May. But despite a shrink in demand, revenue collection for the last two months has witnessed a 5% rise over the same period (October-November) last year. There has been 30% additional tax on liquor from April 10, commonly called Covid tax, which was later replaced by a slab-based ad-valorem duty from November that led to further increase in liquor price. “Owing to the high levy, we have been able to keep a balance despite the fall in sales,” said Umasankar Shivakumar, state excise commissioner. According to him, revenue collection was Rs 1,100 crore in October and Rs 1050 crore in November this year. “The collection is expected to rise further. Last year, the total revenue was Rs 9,500 crore. This year, it is expected to be higher,” he said. Bengal sees an annual sales of 1.4 crore cases of hard IMFL and 80 lakh cases of beer. “Prices of beers were sliced post summer. So we are still to witness its effect. But except the low-range IMFL, sales have come down for all,” an FL shop-owner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sales-drop-but-revenue-up-after-liquor-price-rise/articleshow/79585402.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 6, 2020||Pune||Storeowner loses Rs 12,000 to cheap phone bait in Pune||PUNE: A grocery storeowner lost Rs 11,996 after he clicked on a link sent by fraudsters offering to sell smartphones at cheap rate. The incident occurred at Anandnagar in Vadgaon Budruk on June 16, but came to light after the grocery storeowner registered an FIR with the Sinhagad police on Friday. Raju Ram Chaudhary (30) from Rajasthan, currently residing at a housing society in Anandnagar, runs a grocery store on a partnership basis next to the police station. Chaudhary, in his FIR, said, “I received a text message from the fraudsters stating that smartphone was available for Rs2,999. I then clicked on the link, visited the website and checked the offer. I then placed an order for purchasing four smartphones for my employees and transferred Rs 2,999 in four transactions from my e-wallet to the fraudsters’ digital wallet.” According to the FIR, Chaudhary submitted his name and address on the website but did not receive delivery of the phones. Later, the businessman made numerous efforts to gain access to the website for lodging a complaint but could not. According to Chaudhary, when he searched for the website on Google, he found that the fraudsters had duped 20,000 people across the country on the pretext of offering phones at cheap rate. Realising that he had been duped, Chaudhary visited the police station and registered an FIR against the fraudsters under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. Assistant inspector Satish Umare from Sinhagad police station told TOI, “Smartphones are available in the local market at a higher price, but Chaudhary fell prey to the offer selling phones at a throwaway price. The businessman did not verify the genuineness of the website before placing an order for phones. He did not make phone calls or meet the fraudsters before entering into a transaction with them and got duped.” Umare said, “We have contacted officials of the businessman’s bank and e-wallets for collecting details of the money transactions carried out by the fraudsters.” The businessman took a call to register a complaint after he failed to get his money back, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grocery-storeowner-falls-for-cheap-smartphone-offer-duped/articleshow/79586464.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Serious irregularities alleged in Chanda GMCH working||Chandrapur: A senior medical practitioner in the city and former professor of Chandrapur Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Chandrapur, has alleged serious irregularities in working of the institute during the last five years. Following the complaint, Chandrapur GMCH dean Dr Arun Humne has initiated process for an inquiry into the matter. The complainant has raised the issue with Director of Medical Education and Research (DMER), the dean, MP, MLAs and senior politicians of the district. TOI has received a copy of the complaint from a senior politician. The former professor has charged that private practitioners from Chandrapur are appointed at GMCH on ad hoc and contract basis in various departments only at the time of inspection by Medical Council of India (MCI). Dr Humne agreed that despite drawing hefty honorarium, the privative practitioners have been providing poor services at GMCH. ‘The college has no record of their attendance and classes conducted by them,” he said. The complainant also alleged that negligible physical, virtual classes and clinical teachings were conducted during the previous years. Dr Humne, who took charge in September this year, said, “The session usually starts from August 1, but no online classes were held for the students during the pandemic as there were no such directives from DMER but physical classes resumed from December 1 following government directives.” On the allegation about teaching staff remaining absent and still drawing full salaries, the dean claimed that the teachers are appointed on regular basis but the college doesn’t have full record of their attendance despite having biometric facility. “The Internet service at the college is poor and biometric system doesn't work regularly.” The dean also said that he is trying to resolve the issue of junior and senior resident doctors, who are mostly serving without bond as per the complainant, remaining absent at ward duties and emergency duties. “Nearly half a dozen private practitioners working on contract basis have quit after the college insisted on regular attendance,” he said The complainant professor said on the condition of anonymity that the radiology department has no doctor to supervise and was basically run by technicians. The dean maintained that he has ensured that an assistant professor and junior resident doctors regularly monitor the radiology department. “Contractual private practitioners retained by GMCH are now regularly visiting the department,” he said. Dr Humne denied an allegation that the majority of patients are being referred to Nagpur on the pretext of lack of facilities and non-availability of anaesthetists and necessary expertise. Giving clarification on the allegation that no emergency operation except obstetrics cases are done at hospital, Dr Humne said full record of surgeries is maintained and is inspected by the MCI. “But no rare operations have been performed at the hospital,” he said. According to the complainant, patients are not getting proper treatment at the GMCH which has become a hub for health brokers and ambulance service providers. Serious allegations have also been made about the dean office failing to declare the post of resident juniors and seniors to be filled by bonded candidates. The complainant has also indicated about taking the matter to the high court. THE CHARGES Private practitioners appointed ad hoc and on contract basis only at the time of MCI inspection Negligible physical, virtual classes and clinical teachings conducted during last 5 years Teaching staff drawing full salaries despite remaining absent Junior and senior resident doctors serving without bond and remain absent from duties No doctor to supervise radiology department which was basically run by technicians Majority of patients are being referred to Nagpur No emergency operation except obstetrics cases done at hospital Hospital has become a hub for health brokers and ambulance service providers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/serious-irregularities-alleged-in-chanda-gmch-working/articleshow/79586463.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 6, 2020||Pune||INS Shivaji observes Navy week||PUNE: INS Shivaji celebrated Navy week with the theme ‘1971 — victory at sea and Navy for environment’. A motivational talk on Indian Navy for schools and colleges around the establishment was conducted online. A poster making competition on the Covid-19 pandemic was held for children and trainee sailors. Over 400 personnel participated in a cleanliness drive in collaboration with the Lonavla Municipal Council on December 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ins-shivaji-observes-navy-week/articleshow/79586466.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: December sees first ‘severe’ day, no respite today||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded its first ‘severe’ air day of the month with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 404 on Saturday, according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. While the impact of stubble burning was classified as ‘negligible’ by agencies, unfavourable meteorological conditions like low wind speed and low temperatures led to a spike in air pollution over the last 48 hours, trapping emissions locally. Delhi also recorded shallow fog on Saturday morning with the visibility dropping to 600 metres. Track the pollution level in your cityThe city had recorded an AQI of 382 (very poor) on Friday and an AQI of 341 (very poor) on Thursday. The capital is currently receiving easterly winds, which bring more moisture to the region. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of the regional weather forecasting centre in Delhi, said the capital might see an improvement in air quality from Monday. “Wind speeds are expected to increase as the wind direction changes and air quality may improve again. Wind speed on Saturday was around 5-6 km/hr, which did not allow dispersion. Shallow fog was recorded in the early hours with the pollutants mixing with the moisture to create a slight haze,” Srivastava added. “The overall air quality is in the higher end of ‘very poor’ as forecast. Surface-level winds are moderate and east-northeasterly in direction. The boundary layer wind direction is southerly and not favourable for stubble fire-related transport. Stubble fire counts from SAFAR-multi-satellite products are still around 296 but its % share in Delhi’s PM2.5 is negligible,” stated System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting Research on Saturday, adding that AQI was only expected to improve on Monday and Tuesday, owing to better ventilation. Delhi had recorded nine ‘severe’ air days this November, the highest in the last four years. The highest AQI recorded in November was 477, largely influenced by a combination of meteorological factors and stubble burning. The capital recorded a minimum temperature of 11 degrees Celsius on Saturday — two notches above normal. The region has been recording sub-par temperature for the better part of two months now with the capital recording its coldest November in 71 years this year and also its coldest October in the last 58 years. IMD officials said mercury would again drop to around 9 degrees Celsius by December 11. “Cold north-westerly winds come from the mountains and generally lead to a drop in temperature. This is what led to such low temperatures until last week,” said a Met official. Watch Delhi pollution: December sees first ‘severe’ day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dec-sees-first-severe-day-no-respite-today/articleshow/79586598.cms||Nikhil J Nair
December 6, 2020||Pune||Bullock cart maker in Pune's Kondhwa turns his skills to decor||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Often called the Detroit of India, Pune can throw up huge surprises— it is also a place for hands that make a bullock cart. Prashant Thakur and his family have been fashioning bullock carts for the last 300 years. After their business grew too big for their shop in Bohri Aali, Thakur moved his workshop to one of the quiet bylanes in the interiors of Kondhwa. “About 20 years ago, the demand for real bullock carts for carrying goods and people in villages started slowing down, and now it has completely stopped. Even villages have roads and motorised vehicles. So, we have taken to making bullock carts for hotels, homes, interior designers and architects who commission them. Though these carts are for show, they are built to be fully functional so the parts fit better and that gives it an authentic look,” Thakur said. He is the 15th generation to take on the family trade and has grown up learning everything about making these carts from scratch. Their main business was to make the boxing, a metal inserted in the centre of the wheel, till they expanded operations to make bullock carts. “We now use electric tools, but back then everything was done by hand. The wheels are built from the inside, we first make the boxing, then come the spokes and the inner wooden felloes and finally the flat steel tyre. Each wheel weighs about 80-100 kg,” he said. The wood is purchased in bulk from Dhule. “We use Tiwas wood because it does not decay under harsh weather conditions. Come rain or scorching heat, this wood can take it. It is the choice for bullock carts as well. We make a bhatti (furnace) to heat the metal tyre to make it malleable before placing it on the wooden felloes, and cooling it so it fits tightly. But for the show carts, we do not use any nails in the wheel, everything is stuck together with strong adhesive,” he said. To adapt to changing times, Thakur has expanded his portfolio to include all kinds of wooden work, but bullock carts hold a special place in his heart. “We have just completed a miniature bullock cart which has been modified to be a tea table. A glass top will be fitted on top. Even though it is a table, the wheels that are held in place, are fully functional for authenticity,” he said. During the lockdown, business came to a complete halt for Thakur as wood could not be transported and workers were not available. But now he has his hands full completing an order for a hotel. “Since October, we have made 24 wheels. It takes 15 days for three workers to complete making a fully functioning bullock cart which can weigh up to 450kg each,” he said. Watch Pune bullock cart maker finds unique way to grow his business||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bullock-cart-maker-in-kondhwa-turns-his-skills-to-decor/articleshow/79586481.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI CAP: 18k seats filled so far||Nagpur: After a wait of almost three months, the second round allotment list for Std XI admissions was released on Saturday. The delay was due to the state’s quota under the socially and economically backward category (SEBC) being challenged in the courts. Since the implementation of the SEBC quota has been stayed, admissions have resumed without it being part of the online software’s matrix. As per the original schedule, the second round list was set to be released on September 10. Just over 18,000 seats in city’s junior colleges have been filled up with the second round admissions now beginning. There are almost 60,000 seats available in city colleges under science, commerce, arts and MCVC streams. Students who have been allotted seats in this second round will have to complete admission formalities by December 9. Though the admission figures will continue to rise as more students complete the paperwork formalities, it is clear many seats will remain vacant. A junior college principal said, “It has been a tradition of sorts in Nagpur that junior college seats will remain vacant every year. Only those colleges that have a tie-up with coaching institutes get admissions, while the others shall struggle.” A tie-up is an informal understanding between junior colleges and coaching institutes. Students spend the entire day at institutes preparing for competitive exams, while their attendance is marked in absentia by college authorities. College gets their official tuition fee whereas coaching institutes get undivided attention of their students. TOI spoke to a coaching institute owner who said that it is parents who demand this arrangement. “You can’t blame parents for wanting the best for their children. They know that admission to medical colleges will happen through NEET, whereas IITs will be through JEE. So focus has to be coaching. Board exams are just a formality,” said the institute’s owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-cap-18k-seats-filled-so-far/articleshow/79585426.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 6, 2020||Meerut||Clerk’s body found on road, family suspects foul play||Bijnor: Body of a clerk at the Govt Inter College here was found lying on Eidgah road in Kazipada locality under Kotwali city police station area on Friday evening by passersby who alerted police. While police suspect that he met with an accident, his family claimed he was murdered According to police, the deceased, Dinesh Saini from Khatriyan mohalla of Bijnor city, had left home on Friday morning. He was on a bike. Rajesh Solanki, Bijnor Kotwali station house officer, said prima facie it seems that the clerk might have died in a road accident. His bike was found near the body. Police have sent the body for an autopsy to ascertain the cause of death. However, Saini’s family suspects foul play and met superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh to demand a fair probe into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/clerks-body-found-on-road-family-suspects-foul-play/articleshow/79584831.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 6, 2020||Madurai||Woman, toddler son die after mini bus knocks down bike||Trichy: A woman and her one-year-old son died in a road accident involving a bike and a mini bus in the district on Friday night. The victims were identified as S Rani, 34, and S Ramakrishnan from Semminipatti near Vadipatti. Police said that they were travelling on a bike driven by her husband R Seenivasan. Their elder son Muthukrishnan was also on the bike. A mini bus coming from the opposite direction hit the bike at Kamarajar Colony, killing Rani and Ramakrishnan on the spot. Seenivasan and Muthukrishnan were rescued from the accident spot and were sent to a hospital for treatment. Police said that they were responding well to the treatment. Villagers claimed that the mini bus driver has been driving in rash and negligent manner for a long time. As the driver - V Kumaresan, 40, from Thathampatti - escaped from the accident spot, a large number of people from Semminipatti village gathered in front of Vadipatti police station the same night and blocked the road demanding his arrest. Samayanallur sub-division DSP Ananda Arockiaraj and inspector Silviya Jasmine assured them of arresting the accused at the earliest. Police said that based on a complaint from Seenivasan’s elder brother Nagaraj a case was registered with the Vadipatti police station under IPC 304(a) (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by rash and negligent driving). A team was immediately swung into action and the accused was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-toddler-son-die-after-mini-bus-knocks-down-bike/articleshow/79587492.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||Vasco women feel unsafe with rise in eve-teasing cases||Vasco: Police personnel in Vasco are at their wits’ end at the increasing number of verbal complaints they have been receiving about eve-teasing and exhibitionism in recent weeks. Based on the complaints, females on morning and evening walks across different stretches of the port town appear to be the targets, police said. The incidents are more common in areas along the highway, with many reported from the areas of Shantinagar along NH17-B and in and around Baina beach, among other areas of Vasco that are popular walking or jogging routes. A Shantinagar resident said that, recently, when she was out for a walk at 6am, she saw another woman, who was around half-a-kilometre away from her, being flashed by an exhibitionist standing near his bike. “The moment she passed him, the man followed her on his bike and molested her. The victim broke down into tears and narrated what had happened to me, though I had seen everything,” said the woman, who has also shared the incident on her social media accounts, leading to several other women from Vasco narrating similar cases. It may be recalled that after TOI had reported about miscreants lurking around Baina beach, Vasco police had begun patrolling the area, which led to cases being booked against the anti-social elements. In Vasco, as many women choose to use the sidewalk to exercise, it makes it easier for eve-teasers and perverts to target them and get away on a bike. “Since such incidents are being reported, I have instructed PCRs to carry out patrolling from Chicalim to airport junction and Varunapuri to Dabolim. I have also asked my staff to greet the women with a ‘good morning’ to give them a sense of safety,” said Vasco police inspector Nilesh Rane. A former councillor for Shantinagar, Yatin Kamurlekar, said there has been increased activity by miscreants after the New Vaddem police outpost closed down over a year ago. “It needs to be reopened urgently. If there is presence of police, then the perverts will stay away from the highway. It is observed that miscreants do move about near the last bus stop at Shantinagar over the bridge connecting the highway,” Kamurlekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-women-feel-unsafe-with-rise-in-eve-teasing-cases/articleshow/79586514.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 6, 2020||Madurai||MKU extends last date for distance courses||Madurai: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has extended the last date for admissions to its 25 directorate of distance education (DDE) courses for the academic year 2020-21 to December 31.Admissions have been going on since October at MKU DDE, Palakalai Nagar Campus, MKU evening colleges in Madurai Theni and Dindigul districts and MKU constituent colleges at Thirumangalam, Vedasanthur, Sathur and Aruppukottai. Students have been strictly advised not to approach any other admission centres or agents. The official website of DDE – MKU can be accessed on https://mkuniversity.ac.in/dde/ for any updates regarding admissions.The 25 programmes under DDE will be conducted on par with regular mode. The subjects and syllabus are on par with regular courses and credit system has been introduced instead of marks. DDE – MKU is among the few recognized universities in Tamil Nadu that has received the approval for distance education admission for this academic year. This year, seminar classes for the students will be conducted during the weekends through online and offline mode. For further details or clarifications, students can contact 6379782339, 9442026474 or send an email to mkuddeodl@gmail.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-extends-last-date-for-distance-courses/articleshow/79587493.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||CWG gold medalist wrestler Rahul Balasaheb Aware joins Pune rural police as deputy superintendent||PUNE: Rahul Balasaheb Aware, freestyle wrestler and gold medal winner at 2018 Commonwealth Games in Australia, has joined Pune rural police as deputy superintendent (DySP). The Maharashtra government selected him for the post to reward him for his success in wrestling. Aware is the fourth wrestler from the state to be appointed DySP from the sports quota. Earlier, Mumbai’s Narsing Yadav, who won gold at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in New Delhi, was offered the post. In 2015, Sunil Salunkhe, who won Hind Kesari, was appointed DySP, and two -time Maharashtra Kesari Vijay Choudhari of Jalgaon was also appointed to the post. Choudhari completed his one-year mandatory probation period with the Pune rural police. Aware told TOI on Saturday, “I never dreamt of becoming a police officer in my life. But sports made it possible for me. Whatever I am today is because of wrestling.” After completing one-year police training at the police training academy, Nashik, Aware joined the Pune rural police as a probationary DySP. He will serve the post at different locations across the jurisdiction. “The training period was challenging for me as I had to attend classes and study the syllabus. But good marks in mid-term examination boosted my confidence,” he said. He said wrestling has taught him to improve himself at every stage. Aware also won a bronze medal at the 2019 World Championship in Kazakhstan. He said, “As per the government resolution, we are allowed to continue practice and attend training camps, including at the national level. So, I will continue to play the sport.” Aware hails from a small village in Beed district. His father was also a state level wrestler. He started wrestling when he was seven years old. He received wrestling lessons at Gokul Vastad Talim at Bhavani peth under the guidance of ace wrestler Harishchandra Birjadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cwg-gold-medalist-wrestler-rahul-aware-joins-rural-police-as-dysp/articleshow/79586484.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 6, 2020||Madurai||Lack of practicals poses tough challenge to CBSE students||Madurai: Though the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is yet to announce the schedule of the 2021 board exams for Class X and XII, it has made its stand clear that the exams will be conducted as normal even if delayed. CBSE teachers and students, who missed proper training for practical work this year, are anxious about the preparation as they are facing a new question pattern.“Till a month ago, students were practising tests based on the old pattern. This year with only online classes, it is an additional challenge for both students and teachers to adapt to the new pattern in a short notice,” said Subha Manikandan, principal, Mahatma Montessori CBSE School. The principal added that though it may not be an easy task for students, the new question pattern, which is focused on Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs), shows it will be like how it is when tackling competitive exams.“The new question pattern would be challenging for students especially in Maths and Physics because though it may be for one mark, the students may have to spend more time to work out the answers. Further, you can’t count on any grace marks if the answer chosen is incorrect,” said N Kavitha Rani, Physics teacher at a private CBSE school.Teachers also said that with descriptive questions reduced across subjects, students would need to understand the concepts clearly and answer to the point or they will be prone to losing marks. “The students would have a better chance only if exams are held in May or June and schools are allowed to reopen in January,” added Subha.In case of practical exams as well, students and teachers are worried as so far, the students have not been even exposed to a laboratory or even know the basics of handling equipment. “Schools must be reopened well before practical exams are conducted so that students can be trained,” said M Gnanasundari, principal, Sri Aurobindo Mira CBSE School. The CBSE has also reduced its syllabus by around 30% and further reductions are expected as many of the states are yet to reopen schools, including Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lack-of-practicals-poses-tough-challenge-to-cbse-students/articleshow/79587494.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||Leopard goes on Gondal tour, tranquilized inside closed house||RAJKOT: A fully grown leopard sent shivers up many a spine in a congested residential area in the middle of Gondal town on Saturday morning. The uninvited guest, who decided to take tour of the area, also injured a fire brigade staffer after it got confined in a closed house where, after a day-long fight, the rescue team of Sakkarbaug zoo who was called to capture the wild cat, could tranquillize it only late in the evening. Locals claim they spotted the leopard at around 11 am in a house near school number five in Bhagvatipara area, a very congested and densely populated area. Scared, they started screaming which attracted a huge number of spectators to the area. The locals also informed the fire department about the sighting. Ramesh Dhaduk, MP from Porbandar constituency and a native of Gondal too reached the spot. “The leopard first entered into a house, but when people inside it started screaming, it went to a nearby house which was closed. The animal got agitated with human presence and was jumping from one terrace to another and in the process also injured one fire brigade employee.” The firemen received injuries on his shoulder and hands and was shifted to Rajkot civil hospital for treatment, where he is said to be stable. The fire department staff and police reached the spot first and informed the forest department, officials of which reached the spot almost by 1pm along with veterinary doctors. Sandeep Kumar deputy conservator of forest, Morbi division told TOI, “The crowd gathered at spot made the task for the rescue team even more difficult. However, after it got confined in a closed house, we were able to finally locate it and tranquillize it for rescue.” The forest department had to ask cops’ help to disperse the mob. S K Srivastava chief conservator of forest, Junagadh said “Leopards are known to hide themselves well and the team was having great difficulty in locating the animal. It also attacked one person.” As Gondal town shares its border with Junagadh and Amreli district, homes of wild animals, it gets such visits of and on from wild animals. In fact, lions too are regularly sighted near Gondal town. In November 2019, forest department found remains of lions in Badalpar village, just 3km from Gondal town and more recent pug marks were found in villages of nearby Jetpur town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-goes-on-gondal-tour-tranquilized-inside-closed-house/articleshow/79585481.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Pune||Provisional diploma merit list to be declared tomorrow||PUNE: The provisional merit list, for students aspiring to get admission in diploma courses across the state, is set to be declared on December 7. Educationists have said that an increase in cut-off marks can be expected, especially for in-demand courses, due to higher marks obtained by students in board exams this year. The common admission process would start thereafter and the first provisional allotment list is expected to be declared on December 16. DR Nandanwar, joint director of the Pune division, said, “Since students have scored high marks in both Std X and XII exams, we have a feeling that the first cut-off marks in polytechnic colleges will also increase as compared to last year in both post-SSC and post-HSC diploma courses. While there is an option for placements, many students choose higher studies so that they can complete their degree.” The post-SSC diploma is given in engineering and technology courses, whereas the post-HSC diploma is offered in pharmacy, hotel management and catering technology, and surface coating technology courses. While the form filling process continued till December 5, candidates from Socially and Educationally Backward category, who had confirmed their application before September 9, were given a chance to change their category and convert it to Open or Open Economically Weaker Section category by visiting ‘SEBC conversion’ link. A senior professor from Government Polytechnic in Mumbai said, “The cut-off marks are higher in computer-IT courses but civil-mechanical-electrical courses too still hold their charm. Many students, who take up the course, come from lower-income background so they opt for placements after completing their course and later go for an engineering degree course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/provisional-diploma-merit-list-to-be-declared-tomorrow/articleshow/79586508.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Protest against farm laws intensifies, Terai farmers burn effigies of govt||Rudrapur: The farmers of the Terai region of Uttarakhand burnt effigies of the central government and a few business leaders in seven blocks of Udham Singh Nagar district on Saturday to protest against the three contentious farm laws, which they referred to as the ‘black laws’ that will help the corporate houses grab their lands. The protesters raised slogans against the BJP-led central government and demanded immediate withdrawal of these laws. Earlier on Sunday, farmers had gathered in their respective villages and intensified the agitation against new farm laws. In towns like Jaspur, Kashipur, Sitarganj, Khatima, Rudrapur, Kiccha and Gadarpur, the protesters were also joined by the farmers’ wing of the Congress party. Balbir Singh, a member of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, said, “This is the struggle of people versus corporates. The businessmen want to control the agriculture sector and the central government has become a puppet to these corporates. However, the farmers will not concede defeat and the government will have to roll back these laws.” Meanwhile, several Terai farmers also tried to march towards Delhi to join the ongoing stir but were deterred by the local police. The farmers subsequently sat on a dharna for more than three hours at the Sitarganj highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/protest-against-farm-laws-intensifies-terai-farmers-burn-effigies-of-govt/articleshow/79584835.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Disease 'deja vu': India’s long history of pandemics||AHMEDABAD: When Covid-19 was considered ‘Chinese virus’, it was not for the first time that such labels were applied to pandemics — India was termed ‘the factory of cholera’ by a French delegate in 1894. The delegate made that reference in an international conference. Earlier, the 1889-90 influenza became ‘Russian flu’ and the 1918 outbreak was called ‘Spanish flu’ based on its supposed origins. While the labels might seem harmless, they resulted in discrimination against people of specific regions. This contention is made in a recently published book, “The Age of Pandemics (1817-1920): How They Shaped India and the World”, authored by Chinmay Tumbe, assistant professor (economics) at IIM-A. The book also mentions that several such elements associated with pandemics have sadly not changed despite two centuries of history behind them. “The politics of pandemics revolves around showcasing your success. Of lives saved. Of places doing worse than you. Of your timely actions,” the book says. “However, the Age of Pandemics tells us do no such thing. Premature celebrations came back to haunt the British in India as pandemics tore through the subcontinent.” The book also comments on the “shutting down of economic activities as preventive measure” practised over the centuries. The dilemma over lockdowns stems from the fact that their burden is shared unevenly by a society, and can pose the danger of creating a new loop due to undernutrition. “India’s extraordinary death toll during the flu pandemic of 1918-19 was likely due to high food prices and undernutrition than anything else,” book says. Migration is also a natural response not unique to Covid-19. “It was nice to see the government take early action in 2020, but the lack of planning for migrants was disappointing,” Prof Tumbe told TOI. “What the past pandemics tell you is that migrants will go back, one way or the other. So, the migration crisis was foreseeable and we could have handled that much better.” Prof Tumbe added that the blame game and origin myths of pandemics are par for the course. “We should also focus less on looking at regional variations and ‘who is doing better’ and instead focus on ensuring the basics — wearing masks, for instance,” he said. “And of course, on improving our basic public health facilities, which people in 1918 were also complaining about.” British blocked relief, voluntary efforts helped city in 1918 Prof Chinmay Tumbe said that during the 1918 influenza pandemic, the Ahmedabad municipality officials were seen to be ‘obstructionist’ as mentioned by historian Mridula Ramanna. "The administration refused, at one point, to convert school buildings into hospitals. Newspaper editorials (like in Praja Bandhu) were critical of their efforts to contain the outbreak," he said. It was voluntary work by local organizations like the Gujarat Sabha (which set up the Influenza Relief Committee), St John’s Ambulance Division, the mill owners association, Muscati Mahajan, and even newspapers, that provided reliefs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/disease-dj-vu-indias-long-history-of-pandemics/articleshow/79586591.cms||Parth Shastri
December 6, 2020||Pune||Filmmakers among NCSI awardees||PUNE: As many as 18 people across six categories in three sectors were awarded during the National Conference on Social Innovation (NCSI) organised by the Pune International Centre (PIC) on Saturday. The guests at the event included executives of large firms, scientists and PIC office-bearers. “To accelerate the economy and create more jobs, we have to embrace innovation and empower entrepreneurship among locals, particularly in the rural areas,” Shrikant Vaidya, chairman of the Indian Oil Corporation, said. The NCSI stated that it received more than 100 entries for its yearly event, which were whittled down to 18 for the final selection. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) was also a partner. Winners received a cash award of Rs50,000. Among the awardees across the sectors, the Ulgulan Foundation was one of the key winners. Led by Nitesh Bhardwaj, the members of the foundation use smartphones to make films in the tribal areas in a bid to raise awareness about the issues faced by inhabitants, a PIC member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/filmmakers-among-ncsi-awardees/articleshow/79586520.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||CM to lay foundation for drinking water pipeline in Amreli||Rajkot: Chief minister Vijay Rupani is scheduled to lay the foundation stone of the bulk pipeline project in Chavand village of Lathi taluka in Amreli district on Sunday. According to a release issued by the state government, under this project an 85-km long bulk pipeline having the capacity of 280 million litre per day (MLD) will be laid at the cost of Rs 644 crore. “Through this pipeline, the population of 33 lakh in 1,298 villages and 36 towns including Dhari, Babra and Savarkundla of Amreli district, and Junagadh, Porbandar, Botad and Rajkot districts will get drinking water,” said the release. The project is aimed to be accomplished by June 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cm-to-lay-foundation-for-drinking-water-pipeline-in-amreli/articleshow/79585490.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||Helmetless youth dies after bike jumps off pothole||Nagpur: A 23-year-old man dies after crashing on a road diver as his bike jumped off a pothole on Kharbi Road. The accident took place on Friday evening when the deceased was riding without wearing a protective headgear. The deceased, identified as Kunal Dangre, was the only son of his parents. Nandanvan police initially registered accidental death in the matter. After investigation, offence was registered against the deceased for rash and negligent driving leading to his death. Dangre was heading for a party to celebrate a friend’s marriage. The stretch of road where the accident occurred is in poor condition, said sources in Dangre’s family. Ongoing construction work and non-functioning street lights have made the stretch difficult for riding, they said. Family and friends said Dangre made a mistake by keeping the helmet hung to the bike while riding it. After having thrown off the bike after it landed in a crater-like pothole, Dangre banged against the divider. Pillion rider, identified as Boby Bangar, fell on the other side. He did not suffer major injuries apart from a fractured left hand. He is reportedly out of danger. An injured Dangre was rushed to a private hospital which denied him admission. He had to be taken to Government Medical College and Hospital where the doctors declared him dead. It’s learnt, Dangre used to help his father Vinod in their family business of pan kiosk. A dejected Vinod said, “Soon after Kunal left home, his friends called up to inform the family about the accident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/helmetless-youth-dies-after-bike-jumps-off-pothole/articleshow/79586483.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 6, 2020||Goa||Drugs worth Rs 4 lakh seized in Canacona||Poinguinim: Drugs worth Rs 4.3 lakh were seized by the Canacona police in a raid at Galgibaga early Saturday morning. Tridip Nandi, 41, a native of West Bengal, was arrested. Police sources said they received a tip-off that Nandi was in possession of some narcotics substances and was to deliver it to a prospective buyer. Accordingly, a police team, led by Canacona police inspector Pravin Gawas, carried out the raid near the church at Galgibaga and arrested the accused, who was residing in Canacona. The police recovered 0.9gm of LSD, 4.6gm of charas and 7.7gm of ganja.  Nandi was produced before judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) Margao who has remanded him in two days police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drugs-worth-rs-4-lakh-seized-in-canacona/articleshow/79586568.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Picture of tiger stuck with wire snare surfaces, red alert in Rajasthan reserves||JAIPUR: After a camera trap picture with a wire snare around the neck of tiger T-108 in Ranthambore National Park (RNP) surfaced on Friday, the forest department on Saturday issued a red alert in all tiger reserves, sanctuaries and parks in Rajasthan. The tiger broke free from the wire trap, but the metal noose that got stuck in the big cat’s neck exposed the monitoring lapse at Ranthambore. In recent past, the forest department also witnessed cases of animals including cows and a buffaloes getting stuck in wire traps allegedly laid by poachers and villagers at RNP. TimesViewDespite installing technology-enabled surveillance and anti-poaching systems, the forest department has miserably failed to protect the tigers at Ranthambore due to weak ground level support. The photographs of a tiger with a snare wire around its neck too was provided by a local NGO and village wildlife volunteers, while forest staff were caught unawares about the incident. The department should have effective monitoring on the ground if it really wants to protect wildlife.Taking a serious note of the poaching incidents, Shruti Sharma, head of the forest force (HOFF) cancelled the leaves of all the field officers till February on Saturday and issued directions for effective patrolling in all the protected areas to curb illegal activities. “Apart from Ranthambore, five poachers were arrested in Mount Abu for hunting a Sambhar deer. An intensive search operation to control wildlife crime in Ranthambore and other reserves will be carried out in all protected areas across the state,” said a senior forest official. After receiving information that a sub-adult tiger, T-108 was caught in wire snare in Phalodi range near Devpura Dam by the village wildlife volunteer of an NGO, Tiger Watch, the forest department sprang into action. The tiger T-108 was spotted twice on camera trap – Thursday at 12.50am and Saturday 6am — with wire around its neck, which probably looks like a trap. A senior official said, “The department sought permission to tranquillise the big cat from National Tiger Conservation Authority on Friday. The tiger was tranquillised on Saturday at 11am and released in the wild at 11.45am after removing the wire.” Wildlife enthusiasts claim that many animals are falling prey to wire snares as forest department cannot carry out proper monitoring in periphery areas due to shortage of staff. Tapeshawar Singh Bhati, a wildlife activist said, “Ranthambore is facing acute shortage of forest guards as only 70 are deployed as against the minimum 150 required posts. It is only when a tiger or a leopard is caught such cases assume significance. Anti-snare walks are the best preventive measure to monitor and control poaching of wildlife in fringe areas. The forest department should rope in NGOs or local villagers for periodic anti-wire snare operations. Special focus should be on the peripheral areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pic-of-tiger-stuck-with-wire-snare-surfaces-red-alert-in-raj-reserves/articleshow/79586540.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Licence of marriage gardens to be cancelled over guest limit||JAIPUR: The directorate of local bodies (DLB) will cancel the licence of the marriage gardens who will not adhere to the Covid- 19 guidelines. As gathering of 100 people is allowed during a marriage ceremony, the garden operators have been asked to close the gates on reaching the limit. The order was issued for all the local bodies to take action against the defaulters on Saturday. A senior official said, "There is a penalty of Rs 10,000 if more than 100 people gather at a wedding. However, it was witnessed at many places that people were not following the guidelines. If strict rules are framed for the operators, rules will not be flouted". As per the orders, the local bodies have been directed to organise a joint press conference along with district administration and police department to educate public about the fines for violating the norms. Meanwhile, the district administration imposed fine on more than 600 persons on Saturday. District collector Antar Singh Nehra informed that, "Challans were issued to more than 500 persons in Jaipur Greater and 150 persons in Jaipur Heritage on Saturday for flouting Covid norms". Penalties amounting to Rs 2 lakh were collected in Jaipur Greater and Rs 3 lakh in Jaipur Heritage. He added that action has been taken against two business establishments which were shut on Saturday. So far, five business establishments have been shut in Jaipur (Greater) for violating Covid norms. Apart from this, challans have been issued to more than 2,000 people who violated the rules and penalties of more than Rs 3 lakh were collected by the police administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/order-issued-to-cancel-licence-of-marriage-gardens-on-breaching-guest-limit/articleshow/79586529.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Agra||Covid positive kids, senior citizens will not be allowed to stay in home isolation||AGRA: Children below 10 years of age and people above 60 years of age will not be allowed to stay in home isolation. They will be admitted to the hospital. The health department has taken the decision in order to put a tab on children and senior citizens being admitted at hospitals in critical condition and also, the increasing number of Covid deaths. According to the health department officials, in the past one month, 18 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Majority of them were above 60 years of age. The main reason behind these deaths was delay in bringing the patient to the hospital. All these patients were in home isolation and later, admitted at the hospital in a critical condition. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “Children below 10 years of age and people above 60 years of age will be admitted to the hospital in case they test Covid positive. The decision has been taken to ensure that their health does not deteriorate to a critical condition due to lack of care in home isolation. They will be provided with the required treatment.” Meanwhile, 47 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Agra on Saturday. So far, 9,570 people have been tested Covid-19 positive in the district. Out of these, 8,796 (91.91 percent) have been declared cured of infection. The current Covid-19 sample positivity rate is 2.67 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-positive-kids-senior-citizens-will-not-be-allowed-to-stay-in-home-isolation/articleshow/79584852.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Case against Sachin Pilot’s media advisor, scribe closed||JAIPUR: The police have closed the case for spreading fake news against former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s media adviser Lokendra Singh and a TV journalist due to lack of evidence. The police claimed that they were unable to find the source of the news that was circulated on social media. The matter is regarding the alleged tapping of Congress MLAs’ phones when they were in Jaisalmer during the recent political crisis. The opposition had also attacked the government on social media regarding it. The persons named in the FIR are Aaj Tak’s Jaipur-based editor Sharad Kumar and Pilot’s media advisor Lokendra Singh. Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava said, “The information was circulated on WhatsApp but despite various attempts, we could not find the source from which the message actually originated. The persons named in the FIR also claimed that they had received the message from elsewhere and since we could not find any evidence against them, we closed the case.” The case has been registered under IPC Section 505 (1) (B) which is for spreading false and mischievous content that results in ‘fear or alarm to the public, 505 (2) for statement creating enmity between classes, 120 (B) for criminal conspiracy and IT Act, 2008. After the case was lodged, Singh had approached the court as well which had directed the cops to present the case diary and not to take any coercive action against him. “I had told the cops that the message did not originate from and while I had forwarded the message, various news channels had already shown it hours before I received or sent it out. There was no basis for the FIR,” added Singh. Meanwhile, Kumar said, “I had always been of the opinion that there was no reason for the FIR though I do not plan on taking any legal course in this as the case has been closed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/case-against-pilots-media-advisor-scribe-closed/articleshow/79586554.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC election results: Women draw first blood, outnumber men||HYDERABAD: Women outnumbered men in this Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. The total number of women who got elected is 83 as against 66 men who came up trumps. By law, 50% of seats were reserved for women in the polls held on December 1. In the 2016 elections, the reservation was followed through an executive order. Because of the statutory obligation, male candidates from various parties fielded a female family member in the reserved seats for women and campaigned for them. On Friday, when the results came out, husband of a woman who got elected was so elated that he lifted her. While all winners were elated, some of the women who lost were heartbroken. Some overcame their disappointment and promised to fight again. “I accept the mandate of the people with all humility and extend my heartfelt wishes to the winners. I am truly overwhelmed by the support I received from the people of Chandanagar. Despite the defeat, I shall continue to represent my people and fight for their rights, as it is my moral responsibility,” Kasireddy Sindhu Reddy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said in her Twitter post on Saturday. This earned her a lot of appreciation. Vijaya Lakshmi Gadwal of theTelangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) , who got elected for the second time from Banjara Hills, thanked people for coming out to vote in her favour. Vijaya Lakshmi is daughter of TRS floor leader in Parliament K Keshava Rao. Endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy was given the responsibility of campaigning for her. Sindhu Adharsh Reddy, who got elected from Bharath Nagar for the second time, assured residents of her division that she would work hard for their benefit and address all their issues. Sindhu, who is set to be the TRS mayoral candidate, called on TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday after her win.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mandate-loud-and-clear-women-draw-first-blood-outnumber-men/articleshow/79586565.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Senior citizen duped of Rs 1.2 crore online, four held||JAIPUR: The Jaipur cyber police have arrested four persons, including a woman, for duping a senior citizen of Rs 1.2 crore online. The accused were arrested from Uttar Pradesh and are currently being questioned. The senior citizen was duped of Rs 1.2 crore in Jaipur over a prolonged period after the unidentified accused claimed that the victim had won a lottery. Rajendra Nath, 74, a resident of Mansarovar, registered a case with cybercrime police station. The complainant had purchased a product from an online site following which he received a message saying that after his purchase, he had won a lottery of Rs12.5 lakh. The arrested persons were identified as Anurag Lal (23), Anugrah Lal (26), Amit Pratapsingh (22) and Bhawna Chaudhary (26). Teams were constituted to find the accused and following the digital footprints, cops conducted raids at various locations and finally succeeded in nabbing the accused. They are being questioned further to get more information about their network as well the persons that they have duped in the past. According to the officials, once the accused had got the complainant hooked on, he asked him to deposit money for some or other reason so that the lottery amount can be given. The complainant continued to pay up and this continued for several months during the lockdown and once he realised that he had been duped, the case was lodged, claimed cops. Officials said that all fraudsters play with the victim’s mind and make them believe that they will make easy money very quickly. Unfortunately, despite knowing the risks, people fall into this trap. Even when the accused asks the victims continuously to pay up for some reason, the latter in the hope that they will get good returns, give the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/senior-citizen-duped-of-rs-1-2cr-online-4-held/articleshow/79586567.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bareilly||Three arrested with marijuana worth Rs 1 crore||BAREILLY: A team of UP STF in a joint operation with Bareilly police and NCB team arrested three smugglers and seized five quintals of marijuana — estimated to be worth Rs 1 crore — being smuggled in a truck along with a consignment of coconut from Odisha on Friday night. Police identified the accused as Mayank Srivastava (driver), Ankur Mishra (receiver) and Suraj, all Bareilly residents who had gone to Odisha a few days ago. Divulging details, STF Meerut unit circle officer Brijesh Singh told TOI, “We have been keeping a tab on Ankur, who has a criminal past, and came to know that he was on his way to Bareilly with a marijuana consignment in a coconut-laden truck. After getting confirmation about their location, STF along with an NCB team and a local police team arrested three people and impounded the truck. After the NCB team verified the narcotics substances, an FIR was registered at Premnagar police station under the NDPS Act.” “The accused was transporting marijuana to sell in western UP districts, Haryana and the national capital after buying it at a lower price from Odisha. We are trying to find other people linked with these smugglers,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-arrested-with-marijuana-worth-rs-1-crore/articleshow/79584861.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 6, 2020||Rajkot||PI shunted, 11 cops suspended in ‘naked parade’ case||Rajkot: Eleven police staffers of Khambhliya police station in Devbhumi Dwarka district was suspended on Saturday while the police inspector was transferred. The action follows the cops’ failure to prevent a man from being paraded naked in the town’s thoroughfares in broad daylight a few days ago. In-charge superintendent of police (SP) Vishal Vaghela issued the orders late on Saturday evening. According to the orders inspector G R Gadhvi has been transferred in leave reserve and the charge of the police station has been handed over to V V Vagadiya. Eleven other staffers including head constables, constables, LRD jawans, and traffic brigade personnel were suspended with immediate effect. According to a statement issued by Devbhumi Dwarka district SP office, these staffers showed negligence in the embarrassing case that went shock waves across the town. The Rajkot range IG Sandip Singh ordered a probe into the incident and had asked the district superintendent to take action against the cops responsible for it. Chandu Rudach (38) was subjected to the shameful treatment on December 1 because he allegedly accused a few persons of the town of being involved in bootlegging and cricket betting on his social media post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pi-shunted-11-cops-suspended-in-naked-parade-case/articleshow/79585500.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ‘Accusing Amit Shah for toppling government absurd’||JAIPUR: Reacting to the statement by chief minister Ashok Gehlot accusing the Union home minister Amit Shah of toppling the Congress government, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria called it absurd and said that since the beginning they have been telling Gehlot not to blame others for the differences within your party. “The difference between the top Congress leaders is known to all and yet they have never attempted to bury the hatchet. Now, the CM is yet again passing the blame on the BJP for the threat they have from their own leaders,” said Kataria. Deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore said that the internal fight in Congress is so intense that revolt can take place anytime. “Gehlot’s statement is an attempt to supress the dissent in his party to divert the attention of people. Needless to say, that these allegations are baseless. It is the duty of the chief minister to run the government for five years. However, it is evident that they have failed on all fronts and instead of improving it they are busy blaming others for the same,” said Rathore. State BJP president Satish Poonia called the statement ‘baseless’ and an attempt to hide the failures of his government on Saturday. “It is unfortunate that Gehlot has dragged the name of Shah and petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan without any evidence. Such an obnoxious behaviour doesn’t fall into the category of the political discourse,” said Poonia. He called the Congress has made the habit of involving others in their internal matters. “It appears that Gehlot had lost its confidence and position in the state and it trying it best to blame BJP for the same. I pray that he should get his senses back so that he can look into the shortcomings of his own party,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accusing-shah-for-toppling-govt-by-gehlot-absurd-bjp/articleshow/79586541.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur segregates municipal wards to flatten curve||Jaipur: Facing the daunting of flattening the curve, the Jodhpur district administration chalked out a strategy for launching a public-oriented movement by segregating the worst-affected municipal wards from those which are less affected.The idea is to inculcate a sense of competition among wards to bring down Covid cases just like the state government felicitates panchayats for declaring open defecation free (ODF). Jodhpur’s cumulative cases rose to 40,903 on Saturday, which is second highest in the state after Jaipur (50,712). Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has emphasised that Jaipur and Jodhpur should now flatten the curve of infection after preparing an action plan. Jodhpur has now devised its strategy so that it will prevent the third wave to impact the city.Jodhpur is divided into 160 municipal wards. In cooperation with the health department, the district administration came to know that 37 municipal wards are having over 50 active cases. “We have identified these municipal wards which are 25% of the total wards of Jodhpur and are reporting majority of the cases,” Inderjeet Singh, district collector, Jodhpur, told TOI. The district administration will launch an extensive door-to-door survey in the 37 identified wards from Monday. At least 100 teams will be constituted with 5,000 workers for conducting an extensive survey in the selected wards. In the survey, health workers will identify the influenza-like illness cases and get their tests done for Covid. On the basis of the date of testing in affected areas, the district administration will create containment zones. The district administration is targeting to flatten the curve by next month. “We are encouraging public representatives’ and communities’ participation for flattening the curve. We will honour the wards which will bring down the cases. Public representatives like councillors will encourage people to use face masks and other precautionary measures and spread awareness,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-segregates-municipal-wards-to-flatten-curve/articleshow/79586580.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur strengthens contact tracing to flatten curve||JAIPUR: Acting on the state government’s direction to flatten the Covid-19 curve, the district administration along with the health department and police have started contact tracing and testing. Also beat constables have started visiting the houses of infected persons. Jaipur and Jodhpur are under the watchful eyes of the Centre. A team of experts from the Centre had visited Jaipur to review the pandemic situation in the city. “The team had suggested focusing on contact tracing,” said Antar Singh Nehra, district collector. Over 60 places in Jaipur have been reporting daily new infections. The city has witnessed sudden spurt in cases with the onset of winter and also after festive season. The district administration officials said that they are taking all possible measures to prevent the spread of the virus by effectively imposing night curfew and putting a cap on the number of guests in weddings. Besides, the district administration has strengthened its contact tracing. “Our focus is now more on contact tracing. Our teams are visiting the houses of persons who have tested positive in the past two days and it will continue till the graph flattens. A beat constable is visiting houses of infected person to ensure that the patient does not flout home isolation guidelines,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I). Earlier, the health department had stopped contact tracing after lockdown but now it is focusing on contact tracing for early detection and treatment of Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/focus-on-contact-tracing-to-flatten-curve/articleshow/79586569.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Compliance of Supreme Court’s CCTV order is key, says HRF||HYDERABAD: Stating that transparency in the functioning of police is the need of the hour, Human Rights Forum (HRF) has welcomed the December 2 order of the Supreme Court that directed both the Centre, states and Union territories to install closed-circuit televisions (CCTVs) with night vision cameras and audio recording in every police station. HRF’s AP and Telangana coordination committee members VS Krishna and S Jeevan Kumar, in a press note on Saturday, said the apex court in its order specified that these cameras must cover “interrogation rooms, entry and exits, lock-ups, corridors, lobbies, reception area, rooms of the sub-inspector and inspector, duty officer’s room, in front of the police station compound, back part of the police station and outside washrooms.” These directions were given to central probe agencies like CBI, ED also and directed them to retain the footage from these cameras for 18 months for evidence, if needed, they said. “This is a far-reaching and landmark order that, if implemented properly, will go some way towards reducing custodial violence and human rights abuses and ensuring greater police accountability. Compliance is the key. HRF calls upon the AP and Telangana governments to fully abide by the letter and spirit of the SC order and implement it,” the HRF leaders said. As was pointed out by several experts, the SC could have gone farther in calling for a 24-hour real-time viewing and monitoring of CCTVs at multiple centres, including the local magistrate’s office, so as to ensure there was no editing, tampering, messing up or manipulation of any other kind of the footage. “Even so, this order is a significant step forward,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/compliance-of-supreme-courts-cctv-order-is-key-says-hrf/articleshow/79587231.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Classical dance fest from Tuesday||Thiruvananthapuram: Bharat Bhavan, the state’s cultural institution, has joined hands with state youth commission and state cultural department to organize an online Indian classical dance festival. The festival has been named after Padmavibhushan Dr Kapila Vatsyayan, an eminent scholar in Indian classical dances and art, who passed away in September this year. The fest will be a celebration of various Indian classical dance forms such as Bharatanatyam, Kathak, Odissi, Kuchipudi, Manipuri dance, Chhau dance, Sattriya dance, Rabindra Nritham, Vilasini Natyam, Sufi dance, Gaudiya Nritham, Kerala Natanam, Mohiniyattam and Kathakali. Cultural affairs minister A K Balan will inaugurate the first edition of Kapila Vatsyayan Indian Classical Dance Fest 2020 on Tuesday. The inuaguration will be followed by a commemoration of Kapila Vatsyayan in which noted personalities, including dancer couple V P Dhananjayan and Shanta Dhananjayan, Padma Subrahmanyam, Sunil Kothari, Tapati Chowdhurie, Omchery N N Pillai, Venu G, M A Baby and Aiswarya Warrier, will speak. The fest will kickoff with the Bharatanatyam performance by Nartaki Nataraj, the first transgender recepient of Padma Shri. This will be followed by Mohiniyattam performance by R L V Ramakrishnan, Bharatanatyam performances by Shijith and Parvathy and Aishwarya Varrier. The fest will commence every day at 7pm. Each day will have streaming of short documentaries on late connoisseurs of various Indian classical dance forms. This will be followed by a demonstration/performance by renowned dancers in the dance form that is being discussed. Over 80 renowned dancers from all over the country will stage their performance in the eight-day festival. The performances will be streamed live on the official Facebook page of Bharat Bhavan. The same will be subsequently uploaded to Bharat Bhavan’s Youtube page. The fest will be livestreamed on social media pages of state youth commission, state cultural department, cultural minister, various cultural institutions and cultural associations in and outside the country. On December 15, minister for industries E P Jayarajan will inaugurate the valedictory of the fest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/classical-dance-fest-from-tuesday/articleshow/79585522.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Scribe cheats Anand woman of Rs 1 lakh||Vadodara: A man claiming to be the editor of a local weekly cheated a woman from Anand of Rs 1.1 lakh.The woman Hema Narsindhani lodged a complaint of cheating against Kishan Rajput, a resident of Nizampura, on Friday night.According to Narsindhani, Rajput approached her in February to settle a past dispute of hers and help her get her money back. Rajput also promised her that he will make her brother the chief of the periodical’s Anand bureau. Rajput took the money from Narsindhani in February but did not fulfil his promises. Narsidhani waited until recently hoping that Rajput will return the money. But when Rajput refused to give her money back, she approached police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/scribe-cheats-anand-woman-of-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/79585549.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||Mopa land losers plan stir, say govt failed to keep promises||Saligao: People whose land has been acquired for the construction of Mopa airport have decided to lead a march of around 3,000 persons to the assembly complex soon, alleging their demands have not been met. The landowners and farmers said they have been fooled by the land acquisition officer, who had given them a written assurance of providing jobs. Several organisations have demanded that the excess land acquired for the project should be released and that no additional land should be acquired to construct a highway near the airport. Mopa locals also said they should be given government jobs as was promised at the time of land acquisition. The agitation will be taken nationwide like the current anti-coal transportation system, said Mopa airport committee president Sandeep Kambli, KulMundkar Committee organiser Deepesh Naik, Bodgeshwar Shetkari Sangh president Sanjay Barde, Mopa Shetkari Sangh president Uday Mahale, among others. Kambli said that suitable candidates from the affected landholders’ families should either be provided permanent employment or business opportunities inside the airport project. “Preference should be given to locals in taxi and other transport business. Skill centres should be started to impart training to the project-hit land holders on employment-oriented projects. A fair price should be given to the acquired land,” he said. The members said those whose homes were demolished for the airport project should be fully rehabilitated. Santosh Mandrekar, a local, said the government has cheated farmers by taking possession of their land at low cost. “We are going to file a case against Swapnil Naik, a gazetted officer who lured and assured jobs to the children of the farmers, by taking the land for Mopa airport at a low price. Hundreds of thousands of trees, including teak and cashew were cut to widen the road for the airport. This has caused huge financial loss to the landowners concerned,” Barde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mopa-land-losers-plan-stir-say-govt-failed-to-keep-promises/articleshow/79586589.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Jaipur||‘One in three recovering from Covid could experience psychological after-effects’||JAIPUR: Post-Covid-19 mental health has emerged as a major health concern for patients who have defeated the virus, but they need counselling for depression, anxiety, insomnia and fatigue. One in three patients recovering from Covid could experience neurological or psychological after-effects. These neuropsychological problems range from fatigue, headache, dizziness, and lingering loss of smell or taste to depression and anxiety, sleep disorders, mood disorder and deeper cognitive impairment, says the health department’s guidelines on post-Covid-19 syndrome and its management. “Neurocognitive testing, psychiatric evaluation and diagnostic imaging under supervision of a psychiatrist might help determine the cause for these problems. Mental health can be measured using impact of event scale-revised for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD),” says the guidelines. Taking note of the emerging mental health disorders, clinical psychologists will be deployed by the state government at 181 helpline number for patients complaining of depression, anxiety and stress under home isolation. The state government has acknowledged that a large section of population infected with Covid-19 under home isolation not only need treatment for Covid-19, but a lot of them require psychological support to fight against the infection. Two clinical psychologists have been deployed at the state-level war room, who will perform their duties on alternate days. “They will remain available from 10am to 5pm on 181 helpline number. Any infected or recovered patient who has complaints of depression, anxiety, insomnia, stress and fatigue may call the helpline for counselling,” said a senior health department official. The psychiatric centre run by Sawai Man Singh Medical College in Adarsh Nagar has been witnessing increasing number of such cases who need counselling and treatment. “A lot of cases are coming to us with depression, anxiety, insomnia, fatigue and stress. Covid has become one of the major causes of psychiatric illnesses,” said Dr R K Solanki, senior professor and unit head, department of psychiatry, SMS Medical College. The state-level Corona War Room that is being operated round the clock from Secretariat is providing all kinds of medical facilities to infected patients in just 30 minutes. So far, over 3,700 patients calling the control room on the helpline have got medical consultation, availability of beds and ambulance services, the health department officials claimed. The state-level control was started in September with an objective to provide all kinds of medical facilities to infected patients at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-in-three-recovering-from-covid-could-experience-psychological-after-effects/articleshow/79586590.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
December 6, 2020||Nagpur||‘Vaccine shots 1st for cops in high-risk zones, frontline staff’||NAGPUR: The police personnel deployed in ‘high-risk’ zones like intensive care units (ICUs), Covid wards and quarantine centres will get priority vaccination along with other frontline workers in the state, said Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Saturday. Maharashtra has witnessed the highest number of Covid deaths among police personnel (303) in the country, with more than 28,000 having tested positive so far. About 962 personnel are under treatment at present. Deshmukh said cops will also be administered the shots, in addition to the frontline healthcare workforce, in the first phase of vaccine inoculation. “The cops who are engaged in the forefront like the ICUs, Covid wards and quarantine centres, would be identified and given the shots. Though frontline health workers like doctors and nurses would be the top priority, cops will be also included in the first lot,” said the home minister. Deshmukh had earlier said the image of Maharashtra police improved tremendously due to their exemplary work amid the pandemic, especially during the lockdown. “Police were instrumental in facilitating the travel of around 30 lakh migrant workers back to their native places, working round the clock. The cops also did well guarding the hospitals, wards and quarantine centres in the same period,” he said. “The frontline health warriors and police would be followed by the ones aged over 70 with co-morbidities, then the ones between 60-70 years of age, and so on. A similar pattern may be followed among the cops too,” said the home minister. Deshmukh said the vaccines of five companies, including two country-based companies, have been earmarked for distribution. “We are in the planning phase to prepare a policy, dig out the list of the first phase recipients and get ready for the distribution work,” said the home minister. “The entire plan has been discussed with the Prime Minister during the video conference in which all the states’ chief ministers, home ministers and health ministers were present,” said Deshmukh. The state government has so far announced Rs 50 lakh compensation for the next of kin of the deceased cops, allowing their families to stay at the police quarters till the date of retirement of the late cop, and also offered several treatment facilities free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccine-shots-1st-for-cops-in-high-risk-zones-frontline-staff/articleshow/79586566.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||12 militia members of CPI Maoists surrender during ongoing PLGA week||Visakhapatnam: Twelve active militia members of CPI-Maoists surrendered before Chintapalli sub-division ASP Vidyasagar Naidu on Saturday. The surrenders happened when the Maoists are celebrating PLGA week. All surrendered members belong to Galikondal Panasalabanda, Akuluru and Ramagadda. Naidu said the militia members became frustrated with the acts of Maoists, who have been branding people as informers and killing them based on speculation. “People are now realising that developmental activities are not being taken up due to violence by Maoists. Community-centric activities by the police and the CRPF are yielding results,” he said. — Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/12-militia-members-of-cpi-maoists-surrender-during-ongoing-plga-week/articleshow/79584863.cms||Siva G
December 6, 2020||Goa||Withdraw nod for Mollem projects, youth urge Sawant||Panaji: Youth members from different parts of Goa on Saturday came together and warned of bigger agitations across the state by mobilising the young population over the three contentious linear projects coming up through the Mollem wildlife sanctuary and national park. The group asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to stop all work related to railway double-tracking on forest as well non-forest land or face agitation. “We ask you to direct the Goa forest department not to issue any work orders to fell trees for the Goa Tanmar transmission line and to stop-all work related to railway double-tracking, else you will have to face our agitations and uprising of many more youth from across Goa,” said one of the youth Shawn Godinho. By not revoking clearances and destroying the Western Ghats, the CM is destroying our future, said Leander Fernandes. “We will not compromise on our intergenerational equity; Our natural resources are our shared inheritance and it is the duty of the present government and all of us in Goa to ensure that future generations inherit at least as much as we did of a state that is truly worth fighting for,” said Gabriella D’Cruz. They asked the chief minister, as chairperson of the State Wildlife Advisory Board, to send an immediate representation to the Union environment ministry to scrap the wildlife clearances granted to the three linear infrastructure projects. “You need to send a similar representation to the Regional Committee of Ministry of Environment and Forests and Climate Change at Bengaluru to ask them to quash the forest clearances granted for Mapusa-Xeldem transmission line, Xeldem-Xeldem transmission line and the approach road to the substation at Sangod,” said Sabira Shaikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-nod-for-mollem-projects-youth-urge-sawant/articleshow/79586620.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||‘Consult Goans for mining resumption, don’t side with cos’||Panaji: Farmers affected by mining, green activists and Claude Alvares of Goa Foundation on Saturday urged the Central government to consult with Goans over the issue mining resumption. He said it would be favouritism if only companies with interest in mining are consulted. Alvares said they favour formation of a corporation to restart mining in Goa. “We are willing to come and be heard separately. But you please call us, we have told them. We will take all the representatives from all the different villages and tell them how they are affected till date. This is a democracy. If you call some people and don’t call others, then it is favouritism, and favouritism is not permitted under Article 14 of the Constitution,” said Alvares. He said if any one-sided decision is taken, it will be challenged in court by them. “Don’t even discuss restart of mining unless you first consult people of the state, and people does not mean four or five miners. All the illegal mining money has to be recovered, the Rs 35,000 crore as per the Shah commission report. Till that money is recovered these people cannot be considered for auction,” said Alvares. He said Goa Foundation favours formation of a corporation. “Employ workers of mining companies in the corporation. They should be given two years of training in sustainable mining. We should start mining and stick to the Supreme Court’s limit of 20 million tonnes, not more than that. We have to go with people of the mining company because only they know how to do mining. Bureaucrats in mining department, the government does not know how to do mining,” said Alvares. He said the money earned from the sale of ore by the corporation should go to a fund, and the interest from the fund should be equally distributed among all Goans. He said if the auctioning route is taken, then only few multi-million companies will win the bid. Alvares said that until 2018, Goa government has received less than 5% of the actual amount of the ore mined. “This is not fair. This has to stop,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consult-goans-for-mining-resumption-dont-side-with-cos/articleshow/79586600.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bareilly||Girl, 4, raped by kin, 16, in Rampur; booked||BAREILLY: A four-year-old girl was lured by her distant relative with sweets and allegedly raped in Rampur on Friday evening. An FIR has been registered against the accused boy, who is 16 years old and belongs to the same neighbourhood. The traumatised girl was admitted to a district hospital under her mother's supervision and is still having severe pain in her lower abdomen. The girl’s father is a labourer. He was out for work while her mother went to get fodder when the boy, who had access to the girl's house, offered her sweets and then took her to his house and allegedly raped her. She was playing outside her house. The girl's clothes were stained with blood and she told her mother of the assault. There was a fight between the two families once the issue came to light and police were informed. The accused boy, meanwhile, tried to flee from the village. He was later picked up by the cops on Saturday. Additional SP Arun Kumar said, “We have registered an FIR against the accused under section 376 [rape] of IPC and Pocso Act. He has been named by the girl’s family in the complaint. The accused is also a minor. The girl is undergoing treatment at a hospital.” The accused has been held and will be produced before a local court from where he will be sent to a juvenile home, Kumar added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-4-raped-by-kin-16-in-rampur-booked/articleshow/79584876.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Lok adalat to be held on December 12||HYDERABAD: Judges in scores of trial courts in Hyderabad are now getting ready to resolve en masse scores of compoundable criminal cases on Dec 12 through a massive national lok adalat. Cheque bounce cases, motor accident cases, family disputes, cases pertaining to domestic violence, bankruptcy, money recovery, etc, that are pending for years will be resolved in the adalat. Asking people to make use of the opportunity to get rid of litigation and to secure relief, Hyderabad metropolitan legal services authority’s (MLSA) secretary Radha Krishna Chauhan called upon all the litigants to come forward and contact them at their office in Nampally courts complex. “We took up this activity in tune with the directions of the national and state legal services authorities. We will be more than willing to assist those who are seeking legal relief in this regard,” Chauhan said. He said people can come on their own as a party in person or can also bring their lawyer if they wish to be represented by the counsel. Interestingly, the MLSA has introduced the virtual facility for lok adalat cases too. The litigants wishing to avail this virtual facility can contact police where their case is pending or their lawyer. “Once we come to know about their intention, we will provide them the virtual link through which they can participate in the lok adalat from a place of their choice. It could be their home, the office of their advocate, etc,” Chauhan said. Hyderabad metropolitan sessions judge and chairman of MLSA N Tukaramji will preside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lok-adalat-to-be-held-on-dec-12/articleshow/79587236.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||City hospital assists orphan with lung cancer treatment||HYDERABAD: Dasari Shivaj, an orphan from Godavari Khani, Telangana, who had been suffering from lung cancer and was facing problems in getting treatment, was assisted by the Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (BIACH&RI). “The patient was facing severe hardship in obtaining requisite treatment. The case had been brought to the notice of our management. After going through the case, the management of BIACH&RI has decided to extend full support to the patient and treat him freely. As per as the decision, a team of doctors lead by Dr TS Rao, medical director, BIACH&RI and Dr Patnaik, surgical oncologist has operated on the patient. Along with surgery, the other requisite treatment was provided and patient recovered fully,” as per an official statement from the institute. The details of the patient were revealed by Sri Nandamuri Balakrishna, chairman, BIACH&RIin a press conference. He appreciated the efforts of the doctors and other staff members in providing successful treatment to the poor patient. Meanwhile, Dr RV Prabhakar Rao, CEO, BIACH&RI, who lead the team from the front, has been selected for Telangana Healthcare Leadership Award given by World Health and Wellness Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-hospital-assists-orphan-with-lung-cancer-treatment/articleshow/79587233.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Staffer in dock for ‘unaccounted’ Rs 250||Thiruvananthapuram: The local self government department has upheld the disciplinary action taken against a health official of city corporation after the vigilance team found ‘unaccounted’ money of Rs 250 in his office desk. The vigilance had reported in 2012 that an unauthorized sum of Rs 250 was found in the office desk of a health official employed at Chalai circle office. It was mentioned in the report that the official did not declare this amount in the register and based on vigilance report, the urban affairs director issued an order barring his annual increment for a year as a disciplinary action. The official had submitted a petition in which he stated that he was unaware of the norm to make cash declaration and about the need to maintain a cash register. He had told the vigilance team that he came from a distant place to office and kept an amount of Rs 1,400 anticipating unforeseen expenses. He also told his parent department that he was unaware of the cash found in his office desk which could not be locked. He pleaded to be exonerated from charges saying that he had maintained a clean record and never took bribes during his official career. He also mentioned in his response that he had fulfilled his official duties without fail and in compliance with legal norms, and had not been complicit in any illegal activities. He had pleaded with the department to consider his prayer and cancel the disciplinary action. However, the urban affairs director recommended action saying that his reply was unsatisfactory. LSGD has now upheld the disciplinary action against the official on the grounds that discovery of unaccounted money during office hours amounts to corruption and his contention that he was unaware of this money could not be accepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/staffer-in-dock-for-unaccounted-rs-250/articleshow/79585574.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||Sawant promises ‘at least’ 8-hr water supply to all households||Panaji: CM Pramod Sawant said on Saturday that the state may not be able to provide 24x7 water supply right now, but that the government would ensure at least eight hours of water to all households. During a meeting with 191 village panchayats, many representatives raised the issues of erratic water supply and street lights. “I urge panch members to stop water wastage in their respective wards,” Sawant said. “People should stop using water to wash their vehicles and for gardening. Bring such incidents to the notice of the PWD engineer.” The CM said the state spends Rs 8-50 (a unit) to treat water, and provides it to consumers at Rs 2 a unit. “Don’t waste water,” he said, adding that in the next eight days, he would sort out the water issue. “We want to disconnect public taps,” he said. Earlier, too, Sawant had said the government wouldn’t be able to provide 24x7 water to all households till 2025. In 2016, former CM Manohar Parrikar had said 24x7 water supply would be achieved in two years. Sawant urged panchayat members to eradicate poverty in their jurisdiction and provide employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme. The CM also said that people who’ve built new houses and don’t have a house number yet can expect to have the problem solved in four months. He also said that the Union RDA minister would speak to panchayat members via video conferencing. The state, according to Sawant, has set a target of December 19, 2021, to make Goa swayampurna (self-reliant). Thus, he asked members to promote poultry and piggery. He also said that people should get benefits of state and central schemes, and that the best village panchayat in this regard would win an award. Sawant also urged unemployed youth to register with the state employment exchange so that private companies may employ them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-promises-at-least-8-hr-water-supply-to-all-households/articleshow/79586619.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Meerut||Severe AQI throughout west UP, docs advise caution||Meerut: With the air quality in almost all NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh turning to the severe category once again and making the weekend stifling, health experts have cautioned the morning walks against venturing out early in the day. The air quality turned severe with AQI moving above 400-mark late Friday night and persisted till early Saturday morning, but the air remained stifling throughout the day. Besides, the presence of very high density of pollutants comprising particulate matters (PMs) 10 and 2.5 in the environment made it hazardous. Notably, Ghaziabad was worst hit with an AQI of 500. Though the 24-hour average lowered it to 434, it remained severe. According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the AQI in Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad and Noida remained severe, but afternoon sun cleared the smog slightly, thus improving AQI little bit in Meerut and Muzaffarnagar to 353 (very poor) and 290 (poor), respectively. Health experts have, meanwhile, cautioned morning walkers against venturing out early in the day. “Morning walkers must immediately discontinue their routine because the air is no longer healthy in the morning. The air in the late evening and early morning is highly toxic during the winter. They should go for a walk only when the sun is out because pollution decreases after the sun rises. Windy days are still better as fast-moving air takes away toxic pollutants,” said Meerut-based physician Dr Harish Mohan Rastogi. According to city-based pulmonologist Veerottam Tomar, “AQI turns poor during the winter as the air becomes heavy and suspended PM10 and PM 2.5 cause breathing discomfort to most of the people on prolonged exposure, while very poor AQI leads to respiratory illness if exposed longer.” Last year, the west UP region had become a kind of gas chamber with AQI often touching 500-mark due to stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana and parts of UP. This year, however, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar recently claimed that “stubble burning has stopped”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/severe-aqi-throughout-west-up-docs-advise-caution/articleshow/79584890.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rs 2,500cr MSME park to come up in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: An MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) park will come up in Vizag soon. Bhoomi World group has expressed its readiness to invest Rs 2,500 crore in the MSME park that will provide employment to 25,000 people. YSRC parliamentary party leader V Vijayasai Reddy said the proposed park will be set up on 100 acres and will have over 20 lakh square feet of plug and play infrastructure. The Rajya Sabha member tweeted that AP government had earlier proposed to establish one MSME park in each assembly constituency of the state. The government has formed MSME Development Corporation aimed at opening 200 parks by 2023, he added. Rs 45,000 crore would be invested in these MSME parks besides creation of three lakh jobs through 30,000 MSMEs in these parks. It has been proposed to set up at least five parks in Visakhapatnam district in the first phase. The district currently has over 15,000 MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rs-2500cr-msme-park-to-come-up-in-vizag/articleshow/79584889.cms||Siva G
December 6, 2020||Goa||Two vehicles with khair wood seized||Keri: Pernem Range forest officials seized two vehicles at Bhootwadi, on the highway near Tillari irrigation canal, for transporting 68 logs of khair wood illegally from Goa to Maharashtra. Narayan Kacharekar and Nandakishor Satardekar, both from Sawantwadi, were arrested for violation of section 41 of Indian Forest Act 1947 and rule 22 of Goa Daman and Diu Rule 1964. However, both were released on bail. “We received information that two vehicles are carrying the wood out of Goa and our staff later seized the vehicles,” Geerish Bailudkar, range forest officer for Pernem, told TOI. Previously, when Bailudkar was serving as the RFO for Keri region, he had similarly succeeded in foiling attempts to illegally transport Khair wood from Sattari to Dodamarg in Maharashtra. The dried pulp extracted from khair wood is used as a paste to apply it on betel leaves. It is then consumed believing to have digestive and other medicinal value. The wood is also used in religious rituals for lighting the sacrificial fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-vehicles-with-khair-wood-seized/articleshow/79586631.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 6, 2020||Goa||Odisha native arrested with drugs at Nagoa||Panaji: The crime branch of Goa Police on Saturday arrested an Odisha native from Nagoa with narcotic substances worth over Rs 22 lakh.  Crime branch superintendent of police (SP) Shobhit Saksena said that his team received information that a person, Mithun Sarkar would be delivering ganja and charas concealed in a black shoulder bag near the Nagoa football ground. Police seized ganja weighing 1.7kgs and charas weighing 98gms worth Rs22 lakh from the accused. Saksena said during the investigation the accused disclosed that he was dealing with drugs in Nagoa area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/odisha-native-arrested-with-drugs-at-nagoa/articleshow/79586642.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit farmers burn effigy of PM, cops foil second bid||PILIBHIT: Farmers led by CPI(ML) burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Rahul Nagar village under Pilibhit’s Hajara police station on Saturday morning to mark their opposition to the three farm laws. Police foiled another group of farmers, hailing from Majhola area in Pilibhit and the adjacent Sunpahar village in neighbouring of Uttarakhand, from burning an effigy of the Union government in Majhola town under Neuria police station. Prior to the burning of effigy, district general secretary of CPI(ML) slammed the central government for the three anti-farmer agrarian laws and urged them to join the nationwide protest called on December 8. The farmers agitating in Majhola called off their protest after Chandra Bhan Singh, SDM of Amaria tehsil, arrived at the spot and received otheir memorandum of demands with assurance that it would forwarded to the government. Jagat Singh, SHO of Neuria police station, said heavy police force had been deployed in Malhola following the face-off with farmers over burning of the effigy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-farmers-burn-effigy-of-pm-cops-foil-second-bid/articleshow/79584892.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||ZP election on Dec 12, Covid patients get an hour to vote||Panaji: In the run-up to the state assembly election which is a little more than a year away, the zilla panchayat (ZP) poll scheduled on December 12 will be crucial to gauge the strength of all political parties, including the ruling BJP. Voting for the ZP election will be held on December 12, while counting will be held on December 14, announced Goa State Election Commission (SEC) on Saturday. The election, ealier scheduled in March, was postponed due to the pandemic. The election would be held in 48 seats out of 50 seats. People without face masks will not be allowed to vote. Covid positive persons would be allowed to vote in the last hour of voting. Speaking to mediapersons, state election commissioner Chokha Ram Garg said that the model code of conduct has come into force with the announcement of the election date and will be in force till midnight of December 14. “Polling will be held between 8am and 5pm, and counting will start from 8am on December 14,” he said. Out of 25 constituencies in South Goa, voting will be conducted in 23 seats. One candidate was elected unopposed in Sancoale constituency, while the election in Navelim constituency has been countermanded following the death of a candidate. “No campaigning will be allowed from Saturday onwards. Flying squads will be deployed from Saturday,” he said. Garg also said that voting will be conducted using ballot papers. “As far as Covid is concerned, all parameters and standard operating procedures issued by the government will be adopted,” he said. “People must come for voting wearing masks and maintain six feet distance. There will be sanitisers at polling stations,” he said. Garg said that the Election Commission of India has issued instructions for Covid patients to vote, and those instructions would be followed in the state. “All precautions would be taken so that Covid patients do not transmit the infection to others,” he said. There are 1,187 polling stations, while the number of voters are less than 8 lakh. “An average of 800 people will come to each polling station, so this will not pose a challenge to us as far as management of polling is concerned,” he said. In Bihar’s assembly elections, there were around 1,000 voters in each polling station. He also said that there are 10 sensitive booths and necessary arrangements would be made. The elections were initially scheduled for March 15, but the state government postponed them to March 22 due to the threat of Covid-19. However, on March 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for the imposition of a ‘Janata curfew’ two days later, prompting the state government to push the elections to March 24. Despite strong protests from people, chief minister Pramod Sawant was adamant on holding the ZP polls on March 24. Only after Modi intervened and asked Sawant to defer the polls, the state government decided to postpone the elections indefinitely||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-election-on-dec-12-covid-patients-get-an-hour-to-vote/articleshow/79586641.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||India’s UN vote on cannabismay ease Pernem cops’ burden||Mapusa: India has voted in favour of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the most strict drug control list. The move is seen as a complex situation for the police in Pernem, a coastal village of north Goa, where they meticulously work to bring to light cases of foreigners growing cannabis indoors. “During the last two months, police raided six cannabis plantations in Pernem. In the latest raid, it seized cannabis plants, ganja and charas worth Rs 20 lakh from Korgao in Pernem,” said a police source. Cannabis is the main ingredient to produce popular drugs like charas, ganja and opium. Police sources said the recent raids and seizures have shown that cannabis plantations are being grown in special set-ups inside rented premises by foreigners. “For those in villages of Keri, Paliem, Arambol, Mandrem and Morjim in north Goa, this isn’t a surprise at all,” they said. TOI had published a report on October 26, stating how Goa is grappling with the problem of home-grown cannabis. “Until recent years, Goa was a consumption and transit point for drugs, but the state has now turned into production of psychotropic and narcotics drugs,” said a source. India has favoured removal of cannabis from Schedule IV of the 1961 convention where it has been listed alongside drugs like heroin. The decision to reclassify cannabis and drop it from the strict drug control list followed a recommendation by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for a change in the scope of control of cannabis and cannabis-related substances. In India, presently 1kg of ganja is considered as small quantity, while 20kg is considered as the commercial quantity. In the case of its resin, charas or hashish, 100 grams is considered as small quantity and 1kg as commercial quantity by the law enforcement agencies. Police sources said that a minimum of 15 raids have been undertaken wherein drugs plantations under special set-ups in Goa were found in the past year itself. “Such cases were earlier rare in Goa. Majority of the cases of cannabis plantations are in Pernem taluka. The raids carried out so far are just the tip of the iceberg,” said a Pernem local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indias-un-vote-on-cannabismay-ease-pernem-cops-burden/articleshow/79586666.cms||Keshav Naik
December 6, 2020||Goa||Interstate sex racket busted at Saligao, 4 rescued||Panaji: The crime branch of Goa Police on Saturday busted an interstate prostitution racket and arrested two hoteliers, while rescuing four women. Crime branch superintendent of police (SP) Shobhit Saksena said that the police have arrested Ismail Hanabarkadab, a resident of Caranzalem and Nishant Kapoor, a native of Himachal Pradesh in the case. He also said that four victim girls hailing from different parts of India were rescued and have been lodged at the protective home at Merces. Saksena said that last month PI Mangesh Valvaikar received information that a person, Raaz was involved in running a prostitution racket from a resort in Saligao. Saksena said that Hanabarkadab who was running the same resort on lease is also a partner in the illegal business.  The crime branch conducted a raid and have registered a case under various Indian Penal Code sections and sections 3, 4, 5 & 7 of the Immoral Traffic Prevention Act, 1956.  Further investigations revealed that the main accused namely Raaz alias Nishant Kapoor, who is a hotelier from Mohali, Punjab was operating the prostitution racket in Goa from the hotel in Mohali. Police said that Kapoor was put under surveillance and with help from Punjab Police, Goa Police managed to apprehend Kapoor from Mohali by deputing a team of the crime branch headed by PSI Girish Padloskar. The accused was brought down to Goa and arrested. During the interrogation, Kapoor disclosed that he is also operating an online escort website and another person is providing him technical assistance to maintain the website. His involvement in present crime is being verified. Police said that further investigations are on and they are hoping to arrest one more person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/interstate-sex-racket-busted-at-saligao-4-rescued/articleshow/79586665.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Surat||Woman PSI shoots self to death in Surat||Surat: A 32-year-old woman police sub-inspector (PSI) A P Joshi shot herself to death with her service pistol at her residence in Falsawadi Police Colony in Surat on Saturday afternoon. Joshi was alone at home as her family had gone to Bhavnagar to attend a marriage function. According to police, Joshi shot herself in the abdomen between 12.30 to 12.45 pm and died due to heavy blood loss. Before taking the extreme step she had talked to her husband Vaibhav, a driver with city police on phone, they added. However, the reason for her extreme step is not known.Vaibhav is currently posted at Sachin police station. He and his parents along with their four-year-old son had left for Bhavnagar on Friday night to attend a wedding there. Sources in police informed that Vaibha had noticed status ‘Miss You’ on Joshi’s WhatsApp on Satuday after which he asked his relative to go and check at his home in Falsawadi police colony. When the relatives reached the house, no one opened the door despite knocking several times. They informed the police and broke the door open. Police found a diary from Joshi’s room in which she wrote “Living and dying is difficult. No one is responsible for her death”. However, if was not confirmed if this was Joshi’s suicide note. A team of forensic science and ballistic experts were called to examine the house. A detail report is expected soon. “No one heard the shot fired from the pistol. It was only after some relatives reached there, the incident came to light. After Joshi’s family returns we will get to know the reason for her death,” said a police officer of Mahidharpura police station. Joshi was on night duty and had returned home early Saturday morning. A 2013 batch PSI, Joshi was considered a good officer by her colleagues. She was posted in the city for the last four years. Her father is a retired assistant sub-inspector in Ahmedabad police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-psi-shoots-self-to-death-in-surat/articleshow/79585597.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Do not allow amendment to PR Act, SEC urges governor||VIJAYAWADA: A day after the assembly passed a resolution proposing amendments to the AP Panchayat Raj Act, which will enable the government to decide the dates of local body elections, state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar wrote to governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan, requesting him to reject any such proposal if it comes in the form of an ordinance. The assembly passed a resolution on Friday, the final day of the winter session, that the situation is not conducive to hold local body elections in February as the Covid-19 situation is still fragile in the state. The resolution also proposed to amend the Panchayat Raj Act in such a way that the state government will decide when to conduct elections to local bodies in such exceptional situations. Sources said the government is contemplating bringing in the amendments in the form of an ordinance. Contending the government’s Panchayat Raj Act amendment move, Ramesh Kumar on Saturday wrote to the governor, stating that the state election commission is an independent body having equal power as the Election Commission of India within the state. Holding elections to local bodies is a constitutional obligation vested with the SEC and the state government does not have any role in it, he said in the letter. He further stated that Article 243 (K) of the Constitution provides complete independence to the SEC to hold elections to local bodies every five years and any move contrary to this provision will be in violation of the Constitution. Even the Supreme Court said the same in the Kishan Singh Tomar case, Ramesh Kumar said, adding that the resolution adopted by the assembly is in violation of the Constitution and apex court judgements. He requested the governor not to give assent if the state government comes up with an ordinance proposing amendments to the Panchayat Raj Act, and consult legal and constitutional experts on the matter. The state government has already moved the high court challenging the proceedings issued by the SEC to conduct local body elections in February. The high court on Friday reserved its verdict on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/do-not-allow-amendment-to-pr-act-sec-urges-guv/articleshow/79584893.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||PAU students start ‘green ribbon’ campaign in solidarity with farmers||Ludhiana: To express their solidarity towards farmers fighting against the recently rolled out agricultural laws, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) students are meeting after university hours, at 5pm, outside the library wearing green ribbons. PAU students hailing from other areas of Punjab also participate in the sit in and extended support to farmer organisations. Jagjit Singh, MSC plant pathology final year student, who has taken the lead along with few PhD students in the green ribbon movement — where everyone wears green ribbons in campus to spread awareness — said, students of PAU are with the farmers of Punjab and support the call for the withdrawal of the agriculture farming acts passed by the Government of India. “We oppose the corporatisation of agriculture, education, health and the new labour codes being formulated by the central government. We support the cause of farmers against the anti-farmer bills passed by the central government,” added Jagjit. According to him, they are planning to organise a rally in support too. Vikram, another student of PAU, said, “We tie the green ribbon to show solidarity with protesting farmers. Students are also holding group discussions on farm acts and its implications on farmers in campus regularly. Also, we are trying to have mass movement on social media with hashtag #Green RibbonMovement.” Amitoz Singh Maan, hailing from Maur Mandi in Bathinda, a student of BSC II year agriculture, who has been to Tikri border to support farmers. “I am with farmers from December 1 onwards. I have been giving speech to farmers and distributing pamphlets about the movement. Through this, many youngsters have come forward to join this mission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pau-students-start-green-ribbon-campaign-in-solidarity-with-farmers/articleshow/79585588.cms||Mehak Jain
December 6, 2020||Bareilly||Liquor laden mini-truck overturns, hundreds of IMFL bottles damaged||BAREILLY: Hundreds of bottles of Indian-made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) were damaged after a mini-truck transporting the liquor consignment from a manufacturing unit in Saharanpur to Sultanpur district overturned in a bid to save a herd of stray cattle crossing the road near Kanshiram Colony in Alapur area of Budaun district on Friday evening. As passers-by tried to grab bottles, police thwarted their attempt. There were 200 cartons of liquor — the estimated cost of which is nearly Rs 18 lakh — in the truck, of which nearly 10% of the consignment was damaged, said district excise officer Neeraj Singh. Singh said, “No one was seriously hurt in the accident. Nearly 10% of the total bottles were damaged while the remaining bottles were sent back to the unit in another vehicle. The documentation of the accident has been done and police have initiated the action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/liquor-laden-mini-truck-overturns-hundreds-of-imfl-bottles-damaged/articleshow/79584899.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 6, 2020||Delhi||80% saplings planted along Delhi highways okay: NHAI||NEW DELHI: Around 80% of the 6,400 saplings and trees planted by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) along the capital’s highways have survived, the authority has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT). NHAI was presenting a detailed report highlighting removal of encroachments carried out across the country, along with the extent of plantation done. The body stated that 6,400 trees and saplings were planted on either side of the highway as part of a green belt between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020. The data submitted to the NGT showed that in the first quarter of last year (April 1-June 30), 960 saplings were planted, with 4,480 saplings planted in the next quarter. In the last two quarters, 640 and 320 saplings were planted, respectively. The report stated that the saplings had a survival rate of 80% in each quarter. For the next financial year, NHAI says it aims to plant another 1,000 saplings along highways passing through Delhi. NHAI said it had planted 1.4 crore trees through the country in the last three years, with an aim of planting 55 lakh saplings in the financial year 2020-21. “It is respectfully submitted that NHAI has planted around 1.4 crore trees in the past three years, even apart from the statutory requirements, in order to maintain the ecology and environmental balance. Further, there is a plan to plant around 55 lakh saplings from April 2020-March 2021,” said the report. The report also specified the number of encroachments that had been removed across the country in different states, however, it added that no encroachments existed in Delhi. The NHAI had earlier this year been fined by the Delhi forest and wildlife department Rs 2.4 crores after 400 trees had gone ‘missing’ during an inspection. While the forest department had given them permission to fell 9,435 trees for the Dwarka expressway project, an inspection later had found 400 trees to be missing from the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/80-saplings-planted-along-city-highways-okay-nhai/articleshow/79586686.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 6, 2020||Goa||Ex-lifeguards to go on hunger strike over govt jobs demand||Panaji: With their demand to be inducted into government service still not met, former Drishti lifeguards have threatened to go on a chain hunger strike starting from Monday. At least 200 lifeguards have been agitating for more than a year over the issue. They were hired by the lifeguarding agency, Drishti Marine, which has been engaged by the tourism department. Drishti has, over the past year, recruited new lifeguards since the agitating ones refused to join work. Meanwhile, the government has repeatedly made it clear that it is not possible for it to regularise the lifeguards into service. Moreover, since they were recruited by a third party — Drishti Marine — the government has maintained that it is under no obligation to hire them. Swati Kerkar, president of the All-Goa Marine Lifesaving Guards Union — an umbrella group of agitating lifeguards — said that since the state government has failed to redress their problem, the lifeguards have decided to intensify their protest. Kerkar alleged that although many of the lifeguards served under Drishti for over a decade, they were not treated well by the agency. She claimed that even drinking water was not provided to them while on duty. “The government has announced the creation of 10,000 jobs. Surely it can accommodate around 200-250 lifeguards too,” she said. She also said that chief minister Pramod Sawant had had a discussion with the agitating lifeguards in the past, offering them recruitment through the Goa Human Resource Development Corporation, to work as security guards. The offer, she said, wasn’t appealing since the agitators are trained in lifeguarding and had given more than 10 years of their life to the profession. “Some of them are over 45 years of age and will automatically be out of the recruitment race unless the government modifies the eligibility criteria,” Kerkar said. The upper age limit for aspirants in Goa to enter government service for Class C and D posts is 45 years. “We had also suggested that the lifeguards form a society and the society be given the task of lifeguarding,” Kerkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-lifeguards-to-go-on-hunger-strike-over-govt-jobs-demand/articleshow/79586667.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CI suffers stroke, dies on way to hospital||VISAKHAPTNAM: A circle inspector died after suffering brain stroke while offering prayers at the Vaddadi Venkateswara Rao Swamy temple on Saturday. He was immediately taken to a hospital by locals after they found him lying unconscious at the temple, where doctors declared him brought dead. The deceased was identified as Reddy Srinivasa Rao. The 1995 batch officer was ailing for some time and was under vacancy reserve. He had suffered a stroke three months ago and was on medication. He was scheduled to join duty from December 8. He served as circle inspector at Rajam, Amudalavalasa in Srikakulam, airport and CCS station in the city. A resident of Bangarumetta in the district, he is survived by his wife and two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ci-suffers-stroke-dies-on-way-to-hospital/articleshow/79584910.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Will not lift dharna till we receive assurances in writing: PAU employees||Ludhiana: On the 53rd day of the strike, Baldev Singh Walia, president of PAU Employees’ Union (recognised) said although the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) is promising to resolve issues and demands of the employees, they will not lift dharna until they get written assurances.  A series of meeting is continuously being held between the representatives of PAU Employees’ Union and the authorities of PAU. A meeting was again held in the office of the director of research on Saturday in which Jaskaran Singh Mahal, director of extension education, Gurinder Kaur Sangha, dean of postgraduate studies and Navtej Singh Bains director of research met Walia and Manmohan Singh, general secretary of PAU Employees’ Union. Walia said they have held nine to 10 meetings with authorities so far and consensus has been made on many demands. He added that authorities have assured to fulfil all the genuine demands of the employees. “But, we will not lift the dharna until we receive everything in writing,” he added. PAU employees have been protesting since October 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-not-lift-dharna-till-we-receive-assurances-in-writing-pau-employees/articleshow/79585591.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Coronavirus smothers kite-makers’ business||AHMEDABAD: Naseema Ali and three of her family members used to make dozens of kites daily in December last year, a period usually considered the busiest in the run-up to Uttarayan. A household kite-maker in Jamalpur, she has been making kites over the past 25 years and earning wages per batch of 1,000 kites. The ongoing pandemic, however, has dented the demand for kites and thus her daily income as well. "I now make Rs 100 per batch, against Rs 120 last year. Since the sale is less, the prices of kites have come down and so have our wages," said Naseema. The Covid-19 outbreak has spared no sector. And the kite manufacturing, along with several other cottage industries, are among the worst affected with barely any business. Kite-makers tend to work almost round the year manufacturing kites, which are widely sold in Gujarat during Uttarayan and in other states during other times of the year. However, thanks to the lockdown, the production took a major hit with migrant workers fleeing to their home states. Yusuf Mohammad Ali, a kite manufacturer and trader based in Jamalpur, said, "Against a production of some 25,000 kites daily, we’re barely able to make 10,000 kites as on date. The shortage of workers is tremendous and at the same time, the night curfew imposed by the state government is also hampering operations, as most of our work is done during the night." Demand for kites has also taken a major hit amid the pandemic and subdued festivities. "Some regular customers have been ordering kites on the phone and we make sure we deliver it to their doorsteps," said Yusuf. "Usually, orders begin pouring in six months prior to the festival of Uttarayan. No one has turned up so far for placing orders due to the pandemic. Apart from Gujarat, kites are flown in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh on different occasions as well," said Brijesh Dani, a kite maker and seller from Kalupur in Ahmedabad. According to him, only 100 bundles (one bundle contains 1,000 kites) have been sold so far. As against this, the sales stood at 500-700 bundles during the same time last year. The situation is the same in other kite manufacturing centres in Vadodara, Surat, Nadiad and Khambhat. "At present, business is almost down by 50% due to Covid-19 induced slowdown," said Iqbal Belim, who has been into the kite business for over five decades now. Business is normally booming a month ahead of Diwali, as corporate orders also pour in. However, this time around, the pandemic has wiped out corporate orders. "Corporate orders are almost non-existent. We used to get orders from business houses even before Diwali to make kites with company logo for promotions. However, with the pandemic, there are no such orders, and the quantum of business has reduced to 30% of what it was last year," said Mohammad Salim, a trader in Raipur. Many kite dealers in Ahmedabad outsource kite-making to individual households. Around 5,000 to 7,000 individuals get orders to make kites at their homes. Adding salt to the kite suppliers’ injury, prices of raw materials such as sticks, paper and glue have also surged by 15-20% following supply side constraints on account of the pandemic. There is also a great deal of uncertainty among dealers, manufacturers and retailers about Uttarayan celebration given the spike in Covid-19 cases. "The awareness among people has grown substantially and they are going to limit their celebration this time. We don’t know as yet if the government would allow people to gather in large numbers on their terraces amid rising cases of Covid-19," said a city-based kite maker. "The good thing is that many people have started making other products like whistles, horns and masks locally. This augurs well for Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) mission as previously such goods used to be imported from China. The imports of these items have stopped this year," added Belim. Kites with messages of social distancing flood markets The pandemic may have dented production and sales but it hasn’t stopped kite-makers from getting creative. As you walk through the traditional kite markets of Ahmedabad, be it at Jamalpur, Kalupur Tower or at Raipur, kites giving out messages of social distancing and wearing masks are seen widely, with some carrying slogans such as ‘Go Corona Go’. Even the popular and almost timeless, ‘Jo baka...’ slogans are back with messages of staying safe during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/coronavirus-smothers-kite-makers-business/articleshow/79586794.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 6, 2020||Surat||Now, cops try to curb Covid violations through street plays||Surat: After its exemplary innovativeness during the lockdown, police have now taken to the streets literally to drive home awareness about Covid guidelines the play way. ‘On Road Against Corona’ campaign that began on Friday will see city-based association of theatre artistes perform street plays along with cops to sensitize people on importance of masks and of distancing oneself. On the first day, plays were performed in Pandesara GIDC and a school where a group of young artistes performed a short play explaining the importance of self preservation to contain spread of the dreaded coronavirus and halt the pandemic.“The battle against Covid is a long haul and we need to attack it in different directions. Theatre is the best medium to connect to people and it is for the first time such a campaign has been planned by police in the state,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. More street plays will be performed in the textile and chemical industrial areas of Pandesara, Sachin, Laskana, Amroli and Udhna — a few of the most sensitive zones. In the second phase, diamond industrial clusters will be targeted, said cops where plays will be performed in Varachha, Katargam, Kapodra and Mahidharpura. Working on the idea together, cops and theatre artistes have prepared plays in only two days and also started performing on these simultaneously. “It is a good initiative by the police which helps the workers understand the importance of the Covid guidelines and to adhere to it for own safety. Industries in Pandesara are supporting the police in the awareness campaign,” said Ravi Juneja, a textile unit owner. PASA order against cyber criminalSurat: In a first PASA order against an accused of a cyber crime case city police commissioner Ajay Tomar sent Vinod Parmar, 34, to Vadodara Central Jail on Saturday. While the Act is mostly used against repetitive offenders caught in bootlegging, gambling, assault or gangsters, it is for the first time that an accused in a cyber crime case too has been sent into PASA. “Parmar was booked in March 2020 for fraud with investors to invest their money in the stock market. Police arrested him during the investigation. He duped victims for Rs 12 lakh,” said A P Salaiya, police inspector, Singanpore police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/now-cops-try-to-curb-covid-violations-through-street-plays/articleshow/79585616.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Liquor scam: Punjab and Haryana HC gives bail to distillery owner||CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court has granted regular bail to one of the alleged kingpins of the Haryana liquor scam. The racket was exposed following seizure of a huge quantity of illegal product manufactured at the N V Distilleries, owned by the accused Ashok Jain. Now, the latter has claimed that the recovered liquor was never distilled in his factory and was being sold by other arrested accused by misusing the Crazy Romeo brand of NV Distilleries. The accused has also claimed that despite complete monitoring of liquor stock transported out of his distilleries by the excise and taxation officials, no one from the department had been named an accused in the case. "Considering the allegations in the FIR and the fact that after the arrest of the petitioner nothing has been recovered, and the petitioner has already made complaints to the higher authorities of the police and the excise department regarding counterfeit liquor of NV Distilleries brand available in the market, no action was taken by the department concerned. Also, in view of the fact that the petitioner is a senior citizen having multiple health problems, the instant petition is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released on regular bail," observed Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the HC while granting regular bail to Jain. While seeking bail, Jain’s counsel had contended that the petitioner had sent complaints to the Punjab DGP and the excise and taxation commissioner, Punjab, informing them of the recovery of counterfeit liquor being sold by misusing the NV Distillery brand by some of the vendors operating in Lalru and Ambala. Jain’s counsel said that on July 17, 2020, a complaint had been given to the police regarding sale of fake and spurious liquor under the brand name of ‘Crazy Romeo’, however, the police had not taken any action. Apart from this, the counsel said a proper protocol and record was being maintained in the petitioner’s distillery and CCTV cameras were also installed to keep a check on the liquor transported out of the unit, and this was available with the excise and taxation department, however, no official had been named accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/liquor-scam-hc-gives-bail-to-distillery-owner/articleshow/79586704.cms||Ajay Sura
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Centre opens career centre for SC, ST jobseekers||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union ministry of labour and employment opened its 25th National Career Service Centre (NCSC) for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) jobseekers in Vizag city. The centre has been set up at the ITI premises in Kancharapalem. Speaking to STOI, NCSC Visakhapatnam sub-centre employment officer Shyam Sundar Nittala said, “We will start the services from July 2021. Since the centre was recently opened by the government, we are now in the process of gathering details of candidates who need to officially register with us.” The centre was created for enhancing the employability of SC and ST youth through coaching in general knowledge, general English, training in shorthand and typing, computer software and hardware courses and subsequent prospective placements. Sundar said some of the functions of the NCSC include confidence-building programmes, mock interviews, group discussions, counselling of parents and guardians, job development programmes, regular training in typewriting and computer skills, entrepreneurial development programmes for promoting self-employment, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/centre-opens-career-centre-for-sc-st-jobseekers/articleshow/79584920.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Deputy DEO chargesheeted for accepting bribe||Ludhiana: The district education office has chargesheeted deputy district education officer (DEO), elementary, for accepting bribe of Rs 70,000 from a private school. Vigilance bureau had undertaken an inquiry against deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh and submitted a report confirming that he took a bribe of Rs 70,000 from a private school. In March 2018, a Sarv Sikhiya Abhiyaan clerk, Amit Mittal was caught red handed by Atam Nagar MLA, Simarjit Singh Bains with a bribe amount of Rs 70,000. Mittal had alleged that Kuldeep and Sarv Sikhiya Abhiyaan legal advisor Harvinder Singh had asked him to get the money from the school staffer. The school was reportedly run without affiliation and lacked infrastructure and there were some discrepancies in following to Right to Education as well. Mittal had then said the deal was stuck on Rs 70,000 to sweep away the discrepancies and he was only collecting money as told by his seniors. Secretary Education, Krishan Kumar has asked him to submit his reply within 21 days and can give clarification on the allegations against him if any. Despite repeated attempts, Kuldeep could not be contacted for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/deputy-deo-chargesheeted-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/79585603.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Schoolchildren and adolescents malnourished in country’s granary||CHANDIGARH: School-going children and adolescents in Punjab — one of the most affluent states in the country — lack proper nourishment, which is essential for normal growth and body functioning. They have been found severely underweight, stunted, and thin. Girls are more affected by malnutrition as compared to boys, raising concern about their healthy transition from childhood to adulthood. The worrying fact has come to the fore in a joint study conducted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda, Punjab; Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; and Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi. To estimate the burden of malnutrition in schoolchildren and adolescents, 1,060 participants from 18 government and government-aided schools were profiled, of which a total of 897 — 352 in the age group of five–nine years, and 545 in 10–18 years — were included in the final analysis for nutrition survey. In the age group of nine-nine years, mean weight, height, and body mass index (BMI) was 15.7 +\- 3.8 kg, 110.7 +\-10.6 cm and 12.7 +\- 2.1 kg, respectively. About 58.8% of children were found to be severely underweight, 37.4% stunted and 31.8% thin. As many as 90 children in the age group (25.6%) were underweight while 207 (58.8%) were severely underweight. A total of 123 children (34.3%) were stunted and 135 (37.6%) were severely stunted. Only 1% children were tall, according to the height-for-age (HAZ) criterion. The mean height-for-age (HAZ), weight-for-age (WAZ) and BMI-for-age (BAZ) in boys were higher than the girls. In the age group of 10-18, mild to moderate stunting was found among 185 (33.9% ) and 106 (19.4%) were severely stunted. BAZ was found below the normal rage in over 50% of children. As many as 136 (25%) had mild to moderate thinness, 146 (26.8%) had severe thinness. Only one child was overweight. A significantly higher proportion of females in early adolescence (27.8%) were severely stunted compared to males (12.5%). The findings of the study titled ‘Nutrition Status of School Children in Punjab, India: Findings from School Health Surveys’ have been published in the Journal of Tropical Pediatrics. The study done Dr Madhur Verma and Dr Soumya Swaroop Sahoo of AIIMS, Bathinda; Dr Priyanka Sharma of Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi; and Dr Poonam Khanna and Dr Rachana Srivastava of PGIMER, Chandigarh, has recommended strengthening of nutrition interventions for middle childhood and adolescence period that can help in a healthy transition from childhood to adulthood and break the intergenerational cycle of malnutrition. It concluded: “Programmes to support nutrition interventions for schoolchildren and adolescents could provide a window of opportunity for a healthy transition from childhood to adulthood, ultimately breaking the intergenerational cycle of malnutrition. Also, high undernutrition in the rural areas mandates a focused nutritional intervention approach, which is context specific by including indigenous food systems as compared to urban areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/schoolchildren-and-adolescents-malnourished-in-countrys-granary/articleshow/79586702.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Man buys inverter on loan by forging ID, booked||Ludhiana: Division III police here have booked a man for allegedly taking a loan on the ID proof of a woman and also making the first installment for the loan from her bank account. The FIR has been registerd after a 10-month probe. Kabir Rai of Ambedkar Nagar, who is already facing trial in several such cases, had allegedly used the bank details of Karamjit Kaur, 49, of Dhoolkot village to avail a loand of Rs 20,335 to buy an inverter, said police. The woman came to know of the fraud in December 2019, when Rs 2,741 were withdrawn from her bank account. She filed a complaint with the finance company concerned, but she received another message in January which asked her to deposit the Rs 2,741 installment. She came to know of the loan when she enquired further and then filed a police complaint on February 5. Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO of Division III police station, said the accused bought the inverter from a shop near Samrala Chowk and its owned helped them track the accused. The FIR has been lodged under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and various sections of IT Act. The accused is already facing trial in three such cases. He is yet to be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-buys-inverter-on-loan-by-forging-id-booked/articleshow/79585607.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||One arrested for sexually abusing woman in Salcete||Margao: Margao town police on Saturday arrested a 30-year old person, a native of Madhya Pradesh on charges of raping a 19-year old married woman from a town in Salcete. Santaram Shakya was charged under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code. The incident occurred on Saturday night.  Police sources said that the accused and the survivor are neighbours. On Saturday, the accused invited the woman to his house on the pretext of helping him cook his meal, and later sexually assaulted her. The Margao police swung into action following a complaint lodged by the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-arrested-for-sexually-abusing-woman-in-salcete/articleshow/79586691.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bareilly||Unidentified FB account holder booked for ‘abusive posts on Gods’||PILIBHIT: An unidentified Facebook account holder was on Friday booked for allegedly posting abusive comments on deities of a specific religion, following a written complaint filed by a resident. The complainant stated that she found abusive comments on Gods posted on a Facebook page ‘Bandit Queen’, which hurt her religious sentiments deeply. Such comments could also spark communal hatred and lead to clashes in society, she added. Pilibhit kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said an FIR was registered against the unidentified holder under section 298 (wounding the religious feelings of any person) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant section of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act. Police are tracing the accused, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/unidentified-fb-account-holder-booked-for-abusive-posts-on-gods/articleshow/79584915.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Defence upgrade and pensions not zero sum game||In a recent media interaction, proposed reforms in terms of service and graded pensions were outlined. Surprisingly, some documents outlining these proposals were even leaked on social media. These reports have come amidst festering litigation on One Rank One Pension (OROP), resulting in angst and frustration. Coupled with this legal logjam are unresolved problems of non functional financial upgradation (NFU), anomalies of seventh pay commission and senseless missive (now retracted) on disability pensions. All this has resulted in angst and frustration with veterans flagging “lip service” approach, bordering on hypocrisy, on their concerns. Unfortunately, there is an apprehension that the case (in final stages), is being dragged, with the distinct possibility of rehearing, in front of the new bench. There is also considerable dissatisfaction on recent restrictions in canteen services and management of ECHS. Notwithstanding the seminal reality that no system can meet all aspirations, there is an urgent need for better communication and bridging of the hiatus between senior hierarchy and veterans. The recent televised message by CNS is good example and needs to be replicated. Digital communication and connectivity without congregation is the recommended way forward.It will be pertinent to categorically mention that serving community is largely insulated from this discontent. They have in-built herd immunity to such distractions and to remain focused on their mandate. However, in closely bonded society of soldiers and veterans, detrimental effect is bound to manifest in the long term. The timing of such reforms, with the potential for demoralising effect, while troops are combating major challenges on the Northern borders, is inappropriate. Reports of proposed far-reaching changes have come as a rude shock, as there have been no prior consultations. These proposals were not part of the Shekatkar Committee report, which is still to be fully implemented. We seem to be caught in an unending cycle of tinkering, with an attempt to pass them off as transformation. Unfortunately, most senior commanders start believing that they can deal with all intricacies of cadre management, including redesigning cadre structures and compensation benefits. Cadre designing, unlike routine cadre management, is a highly complex function, best undertaken by skilled experts and institutions. Most reforms like command exit model as part of AV Singh Committee (AVSC) reforms and permanent commission to women officers have resulted in acrimonious litigations. Despite courts passing severe strictures, the urge to tinker persists. This is further vitiated by short tenures and the desire to build a “quick-fix” legacy. Current proposals basically aim at deferring pension and gratuity pay-outs by extending terms of engagement of officers and even jawans of logistics cadres. They seek to build disincentive for those seeking premature release by introducing graded pro-rata pension slabs. In addition, severe monetary restrictions for technically qualified and skilled personnel seeking early release are contemplated. These changes are unlikely to stand legal scrutiny, especially when applied to those recruited many decades back with specified terms of engagement. Challenges like keeping superseded officers motivated require imaginative solutions instead of ham-handed ones. It is also pertinent that no such economy drive is being even remotely contemplated by other cadres. Recently, a slew of questionable benefits were announced for retired judges and chief secretaries in Tamil Nadu. There are numerous instances of bureaucrats getting public exchequer funded prestigious foreign degrees and leaving with full benefits. Some abstain for long terms, amounting to desertion in Army parlance. A few like Kashmiri bureaucrat and DGP have even dabbled in electoral politics. It will be appropriate to flag that implementation modalities for increase of age in 1998 were worked out by the College of Defence Management (CDM) after extensive opinion surveys. It was ironical that overruling parts of the study, agenda suitable to senior hierarchy was pushed through. One could recall famous Urdu couplet, “Lamho mein khata ki, saza sadiyon ne payi.” This resulted in stagnation for following batches and triggered AVSC palliatives. The report did encapsulate aspirations of those affected and almost all jawans categorically opined against any increase in their service period. It is hoped that in keeping with Chetwode credo, genuine aspirations of those affected, particularly jawans, will be factored and if possible, an option clause built in. The basic concept of applying zero-sum economics of cutting revenue expenditure to fund capital modernisation is against the oft stated government policy that funds will be provided to meet security threats. This suo-moto exercise is questionable as pay and pensions is best dealt by pay commissions and committees. There is concurrent mounting apprehension that ploy of pro-rata differential pension may be utilised to cut down existing pensions by extrapolating equalisation formula. Our pension system, probably the most complex, globally, needs to be simplified. Accounting anomaly of clubbing pensions of DRDO, DPSU and OFB with defence budget should be rectified. To curb rumours and apprehensions, It will be worthwhile if following points are categorically reiterated. First, as a macro concept, funding for modernisation and capability building to combat national threats is not a function of economisation or budgetary cuts in revenue expenditure. Second, humane approach will be adopted in reforms, affecting terms of service, release and financial benefits. Third, reforms will be carried out only after wide consultation and detailed vetting. Ideally, these should be referred as study with CDM, with inputs from IIMs/XLRI. Fourth, commitment to welfare of defence community, including veterans, is abiding. Fifth, if the system can’t go the extra mile (what is termed as ‘X’ factor), it will treat them at par with other cadres. Finally, as promised by all parties, the proposed ESM commission should be constituted on priority. The writer is former Army commander, Western Command||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/defence-upgrade-and-pensions-not-zero-sum-game/articleshow/79586712.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: After sudden spurt in Diwali, active cases in MP drop again||BHOPAL: After a rise in active cases in the past several days, active cases of Covid-19 in the state. On November 25, there were 13741 active cases in the state. Now 10 days down the line, there are again 13641 active cases on December 4. However in between these dates, the active cases increased by nearly 1300 in few days when it reached a peak on November 27 when there were a total of 14974 active cases in the state. The number again started coming down and on December 4 when there were 13641 active cases — a reduction of 1333 in active cases. As on December 5, there are 13,532 Covid-19 active patients in Madhya Pradesh. Sources said that though it is early to conclude but it seems that like other states where the cases increased reached a peak and then have again started to come down and same is happening in Madhya Pradesh as well. A total of 1773 new cases were reported in the state on November 25 and since then it has been reducing day-by-day and on December 4, a total of 1324 new cases were reported in the state. This is lowest in the past 10 days. In the past six days, the number of people recovering in a single day has outnumbered the number of people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state. If the situation remains the same for another 10 to 15 days, the number of active cases in state is likely to go below 10,000 mark. As it was a month ago, when the new cases started to increase, said sources. Sources however said that earlier it were by-elections, which were followed by Diwali festive season and shopping and then it was marriage season starting from November 25. It is on December 14, that the marriage season will come to an end, though government imposed restrictions and night curfew following the increase in number of cases, leading to a chaotic marriage season, but actual improvement is likely when the marriage season is over, said sources. The situation will be clear only after marriage season is over that whether Covid-19 is on a downturn after reaching peak or otherwise, added the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-sudden-spurt-in-diwali-active-cases-in-mp-drop-again/articleshow/79585660.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covaxin trial resume, more volunteers turn up||BHOPAL: Saturday proved to be the best day for doctors monitoring the Covaxin trials at Peoples’ Medical College as large number of volunteers turned up to get themselves registered for the vaccine trial. It was the sixth day since the trials began for Covaxin, the Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for protection against Coronavirus in the city. Encouraged by the response, the college decided to keep its centre open on Sunday. The human-trial of vaccine at Peoples’ Medical College in Bhopal had started on November 28, but it was stopped on last weekend and Monday which was a holiday. Thursday again being a holiday trials were not conducted, and it started on Friday. Those who turned up to get themselves registered for the trials as volunteers were mainly youngsters and students. Apart from Peoples’ Medical University, the trials would be conducted at Gandhi Medical College (GMC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covaxin-trial-resume-more-volunteers-turn-up/articleshow/79585663.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||1,352 new Covid-19 patients take Madhya Pradesh count to 2,13,050||BHOPAL: With 1,352 new people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state on Saturday tally of patients reached 2,13,050. And Saturday was the sixth consecutive day when the number of people recovering in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. In past 5 days between November 30 and December 5—the number of active patients in the state has reduced by 1,442. There were a total of 14,974 active cases in the state on November 29, it started reducing since November 30 and as on December 5, there were a total of 13,532 active patients. Apart from these fresh cases, 12 deaths were also reported on Saturday. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3,326 in the state. The districts from which these deaths were reported includes Indore where 3 death cases were reported, Gwalior and Bhopal 2 each and one death each in Khargone, Shivpuri, Harda, Guna and Niwari districts. On Saturday, new cases were reported from all the 52 districts of the state. And cases were reported in double figures from 18 districts of the state. The districts where maximum cases were reported includes Indore where 546 cases were reported, Bhopal 324, Jabalpur 53 cases and Ujjain 31.A total of 29,952 samples were tested in the day and the positivity rate— number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Saturday stood at 4.5%. On the brighter side, 1449 people recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. The total recoveries from Covid-19 stood at 1,96,192.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1352-new-covid-19-patients-take-state-count-to-213050/articleshow/79585667.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Will clean MP of crime and adulteration: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Calling himself a sanitation worker, Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan pledged to clean the state from the filth of adulteration, crime and goons. Chouhan while distributing Swachh Seva Samman-2020 to urban bodies at Minto Hall in Bhopal on Saturday also urged the people of the state to take a pledge to make Madhya Pradesh state number 1 in all areas of cleanliness. Stating that Madhya Pradesh has been setting records in the country since the last many years in the field of cleanliness, he said Indore city is being consistently selected as the cleanest city in India since the last four years in the Swachh Sarvekshan, other urban bodies from the state too are becoming pioneers in the field of cleanliness. Chouhan said that “I mainly congratulate and greet all the sanitation workers for the achievements of MP in the field of cleanliness.” It is the duty of every citizen to keep the environment clean. He honoured several urban bodies including Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain, Sagar, Jabalpur which topped the various sectors in the Cleanliness Survey 2020. Urban administration and housing minister Bhupendra Singh, minister of state of the department OPS Bhadoria, local MP Pragya Thakur, Indore mayor Malini Gaur, MLA Krishna Gaur, principal secretary of the department Nitesh Vyas were present in the programme. On the occasion, Chouhan interacted with the sanitation workers of Sagar, Singrauli and Indore Municipal Corporation through video conferencing and asked how they led their urban body to the top position. Rajkumari of Sagar told the CM that she used to begin cleaning work from morning itself (“sakare se safai ko kaam chalu karat the”) and would continue with her team till evening. Chouhan congratulated the entire team. Ashish and Mahajabeen, members of Young Sanitation Group of Singrauli, told the CM that they used the 3 R’s i.e. Recycle, Reduce and Reuse as well as the fourth R “Refuse” which made it easier to achieve cleanliness. Refuse means refusing to use such items as polythene which harms the environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/will-clean-mp-of-crime-and-adulteration-cm/articleshow/79585669.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dust mitigation lax at own sites of govt agencies||NEW DELHI: Delhi woke up to a hazy morning on Saturday with the day’s AQI being recorded at 404. Since the contribution of stubble burning is negligible now, local pollution and weather conditions are to be blamed for the deterioration in air quality. Dust mitigation, i.e reducing PM 2.5 in the air, can surely make a difference. While the civic agencies in the city are regularly taking action against private contractors at residential or other construction projects for not adhering to pollution norms, the urgency seems to be missing when it comes to their own sites or public spaces, such as roads where various agencies are carrying out digging or construction work. TOI visited central and east Delhi and found earth being dumped on pavements or roadside at many places while digging roads for laying cables. This reporter witnessed this at Swami Dayanand Marg (near Madhu Vihar traffic signal) and opposite Preet Vihar’s A block market. Even in the heart of Lutyens’ Delhi, at Janpath Lane or Vidyut Bhawan Lane (near Moti Lal Nehru Marg), one came across an NDMC (New Delhi Municipal Committee) site where construction material had been left uncovered inside the complex with no provision for sprinkling of water while the four-storey building had not been sealed off till the top by tin sheets as is mandated. This was, obviously, leading to air and noise pollution. According to an NDMC official, the building is known as Vidyut Bhawan, which once used to be the office of the electricity engineering department. “Now the office has been shifted and work for renovating the building before renting it out to Enforcement Directorate is going on. The work will take a few more months to be completed,” said the staff. People around the construction site complained that the construction activity was causing severe environmental pollution. “Besides being a public nuisance, it has also affected our peace and health adversely. A group of construction workers stay at the site and burn wood, leaves, kerosene etc. which give out harmful emissions,” said a local who wished to remain anonymous. NDMC’s nodal officer for pollution and environment CL Meena claimed that work was stopped at the site as soon as these issues came to their notice. “Our staff visited the site and found that work for installing barricades at the boundary was going on. We have asked the construction company to ensure regular sprinkling of water to avoid action. We expect the situation to get better within the next two days,” he said. Meanwhile, at Swami Dayanand Marg at Patparganj in east Delhi, labourers were carrying out work for laying telephone cables. They said the road had been dug up as they have to replace the entire line. “But we have not been asked to sprinkle water on the mounds of earth piled up on the side of the road,” said a labourer. Similarly, a pavement opposite A Block Market, Acharya Nagraj Marg, in Preet Vihar which faces the DDA district park was also dug up at various places. A senior East Delhi Municipal Corporation official said their teams were regularly taking rounds and ensuring no one left construction material and loose earth in the open. “All public utilities should be adhering to the pollution norms even if the work had started after obtaining all NOCs. They should sprinkle water regularly to settled down the dust. We will immediately get the sites checked and take appropriate action,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dust-mitigation-lax-at-own-sites-of-govt-agencies/articleshow/79586779.cms||Vibha Sharma
December 6, 2020||Chennai||We’ll keep our word, give free vaccine to all: Tamil Nadu health minister||CHENNAI: Vaccine for Covid-19 will be given to all citizens free of cost, as per the promise made by the CM, health minister C Vijayabaskar said here on Saturday. “We have managed to implement the 7.5% reservation for government school students in MBBS/BDS admissions as per the CM’s promise. Preparatory work for getting lists of frontline workers and installation of cold chains is under way. The CM has had two virtual meetings regarding this with the PM.,” the minister said. The state will offer the vaccine to frontline workers in the first phase. After doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, priority will be given to state and central police personnel and armed forces. The government is also getting names of people above 50 years and those with comorbid conditions so they can be given priority, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/well-keep-our-word-give-free-vaccine-to-all-tn-health-min/articleshow/79586760.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Gujarat HC judge dies days after testing positive||AHMEDABAD: A sitting judge of the Gujarat high court, G R Udhwani, succumbed to Covid-19 on Saturday morning at a private hospital, days after he had tested positive for the virus. Justice Udhwani is survived by his wife and two sons. He was 59, HC officials said. Udhwani had tested Covid-19-positive on November 19 and was hospitalised on November 22 with a severe lung infection. He was among three high court judges who had tested positive after Diwali. Sources said Udhwani was treated aggressively in the ICU for Covid-related complications but his condition grew aggravated. He finally died due to multi-organ failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-hc-judge-dies-days-after-testing-positive/articleshow/79587676.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Filing tax key to nation’s growth: Guv||Hyderbad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Saturday said that payment of income tax contributes to the nation’s progress.  Taxes are major sources of revenue for the governments and they help the governments take up welfare and developmental programmes, she said. She was the chief guest at the inaugural of the 23rd National Convention of the All India Federation of Tax Practitioners virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/filing-tax-key-to-nations-growth-guv/articleshow/79587279.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana records 1,557 new infections, 25 more Covid-19 deaths||CHANDIGARH: While new Covid-19 cases in Haryana remained restricted at 1,557 on Saturday, the number of deaths remained high at 25. At 2,551, recoveries continued to exceed new cases detected. The overall case tally of the state now stands at 2,42,398 cases, deaths at 2,564 and recoveries at 2,26,524. The recovery rate now stands 93.45% and mortality rate at 1.06%. There are 13,310 active cases, which include 369 critical patients who are hospitalised in Covid care centres across the state. Maximum eight deaths have been reported from Hisar district, followed by five deaths in Panipat, four in Gurgaon, two in Mahendegarh, and one each from Faridabad, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Rohtak, Palwal and Jind districts. Maximum 395 cases were reported from Gurgaon district, where overall count has gone to 51,854 cases, 314 deaths and 3,762 active cases. Faridabad reported second highest 333 new cases. Here the total count has gone up to 42,119 cases, 360 deaths and 1,719 active cases. Rohtak reported 86 cases, with total rising to 11,146. Hisar reported 85 cases and total count of 16,077 cases and 262 deaths. Sonipat reported 79 cases with a total of 13,418. Panchkula reported 78 cases, followed by 72 in Rewari district. 59 new cases came from Karnal, followed by 48 in Jhajjar, 47 in Ambala and 45 in Bhiwani district. Palwal detected 37 cases, while Jind reported 36 cases. Rest of the districts reported less than 30 cases, with lowest three cases reported from Nuh district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1557-new-cases-25-more-deaths-in-haryana/articleshow/79586804.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Shimla||In Himachal Pradesh, dedicated vehicles to transport Covid-19 patients||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh cief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday said dedicated vehicles would be provided in identified community health centres (CHCs) to transport Covid-19 patients under home isolation to health institution for treatment, if required. He said if in any case the patient under treatment at home is required to be shifted to hospital for treatment and faces difficulty in getting a proper vehicle for transportation to hospital, these vehicles would facilitate the patients in a long way particularly in rural areas. Thakur said these vehicles would be fitted with fibre glass to separate the driver cabin from the rear seat. He said two vehicles would be provided in every such institution to facilitate the patients. He added that in addition to this, 30 ambulances had been added from the districts to supplement the emergency services. The CM said walk-in-kiosks had been placed in few places of the state to collect the samples. He said the decision of not allowing more than 50 persons in any social function must be implemented in letter and spirit. He added that the government had increased Covid-19 testing in the state to ensure effective tracking of the patients and to avoid any further spread of the virus. Secretary (health) Amitabh Avasthi said four pre-fabricated Covid-19 hospital were coming up in the state and the work for which would be completed within a fortnight. Box: Event registration portal launched To facilitate the people of Himachal Pradesh to obtain permission for organising any gathering, an event registration portal has been started by the state government. Those wanting to organise any kind of social, cultural, political or any other event can register on https://covid.hp.gov.in. Event registration portal has been started to avoid large gatherings in public offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/dedicated-vehicles-to-transport-covid-19-patients-in-hp/articleshow/79586816.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||25 winners have criminal record: FGG||HYDERABAD: NGO Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has said among the 149 successful candidates elected to the GHMC council on Friday, 25 of them have criminal records. In the previous council, 30 corporators had criminal records against them. In the latest election, 49 candidates, fielded by various political parties, had criminal cases pending against them. Among them, 25 won the election. FGG data reveals that of the 25 candidates, 10 winners were from BJP, eight from TRS and seven from AIMIM. MIM corporator-elect from Shah Ali Banda, Mohammed Mustafa Ali, has seven criminal cases against him, while BJP’s T Srinivas Reddy, who won from Mailardevpally division, is an accused in five cases. On the day of voting and counting too, cases were filed against members of different parties for code violation and distribution of liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-winners-have-criminal-record-fgg/articleshow/79586822.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Medipally boy goes missing, case booked||Hyderabad: A 12-year-old boy who is a resident of Medipally went missing on Friday. Anxious about his whereabouts, his mother lodged a complaint.She said that the boy left their residence without informing anyone that he was going out. After he did did not return, the family approached cops. A case was registered by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medipally-boy-goes-missing-case-booked/articleshow/79587281.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19 shrinks Hindu jathas going to Pakistan for pilgrimage||AMRITSAR: The coronavirus pandemic is likely to reduce the size of the jatha for Hindu pilgrimage to Hyat Pitaphi and Katasraj cluster of temples in Pakistan, where the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) has started preparations to receive the pilgrims from India. Talking to TOI over the phone from Katasraj, ETPB deputy secretary Faraz Abbas said a jatha each of Shadani Darbar and Kendriya Sanatan Dharam Sabha would arrive in Pakistan on December 15 and December 23, respectively. According to him, the Shadani Darbar jatha would enter Pakistan on December 15 and be given special permission to travel to Hyat Pitaphi by buses. Besides Hyat Pitaphi, the Hindu jatha will also visit Mathelo, Sukkur, Khanpur Mahar, Ghotki, Mirpur Mathelo, and Daharki before leaving for India on December 21, he said. “Normally the Hindu jatha leaves for Hyat Pitaphi by train but due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Pakistan government has made special arrangements of buses for the Indian Hindu pilgrims,” said Faraz. Recently, a Sikh jatha of 850 pilgrims, as against the routine strength of 3,000 devotees, had gone to Pakistan to celebrate the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Shadani Darbar secretary Babu Lal said according to the bilateral protocol agreement on visit to religious shrines, 1974, as many as 400 devotees could go but this year, he said they had received only 70-odd passports. President, Kendirya Sanatan Dharam Sabha, Shiv Partap Bajaj, said there was not much enthusiasm among devotees to visit Pakistan due to the pandemic. Deputy secretary, ETPB, Faraz Abbas said chairman Aamer Ahmad had visited Katasraj to inspect development work and arrangements for Indian devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/covid-shrinks-hindu-jathas-going-to-pak-for-pilgrimage/articleshow/79586835.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||680 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths surface in U’khand||Dehradun: With the state recording 680 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 77,573. The state also reported deaths of eight Covid-19 patients. Among the eight deaths reported on Saturday, four were recorded in Dehradun, two in Haldwani, and one each in Almora and Srinagar. With this, the toll of the virus rose to 1,281. In view of the rising cases, people coming from outside Uttarakhand will now have to undergo mandatory screening at borders in Nainital. The exercise will start from Sunday. “The teams of the local civic body and the health department will screen every one coming to the town from other states and all symptomatic people will be tested,” said Dr KS Dhami, medical superintendent, BD Pandey Hospital, Nainital. According to the health department, as many as 12,045 Covid-19 test samples tested negative on Saturday and test results of 16,000 Covid-19 samples were pending. The official data also reveals that Dehradun accounts for more than 28% of the total Covid-19 cases in Uttarakhand and more than 55% of the total coronavirus-related deaths in the state have also been reported from Dehradun. Among the 680 positive cases found on Saturday, the maximum of 307 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 87 cases in Nainital, 50 in Almora, 38 in Haridwar, 36 in Pithoragarh, 33 in Pauri, 31 in Udham Singh Nagar, 27 in Chamoli, 15 in Tehri, 14 in Champawat, nine in Rudraprayag, and eight in Uttarkashi. Also, with 457 patients recovering from Covid-19 infection, the number of cured cases reached 70,288 in the state. Meanwhile, the health department claimed to have tested 14,09,056 samples since March when the state reported its first case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/680-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79584999.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Swanky cars in dust bowl: State of an industrial hub in Delhi that pays crores in tax||NEW DELHI: It has dealerships of brands like Audi, BMW and Harley-Davidson and a large number of multinational IT companies. But in stark contrast to the high-end vehicles on display, the road outside the shiny windows is stony and muddy. This contrast is visible all over Mohan Cooperative Industrial Estate. Though a prominent industrial area, well sited on Mathura Road and connected with other commercial hubs in Delhi-NCR, it appears a picture of civic apathy. The Mohan Estate Cooperative Welfare Association alleges that its members file at least Rs 1,000 crore in goods and services tax and other dues annually without commensurate facilities being provided to them. Vijay Khandelwal, president of the association, claimed, “You can be sure that any maintained patch of road here is the work of the plot owners. It is a pity that agencies like Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation want to collect revenue even from road cutting fees, but nobody wants to provide civic services.” Developed in the mid-1960s on a cooperative basis with land acquired on lease from Delhi Development Authority, Mohan Industrial Estate has 349 plots, 85% of which, over the decades, have converted from leasehold to freehold. The unit owners grumbled that despite being made to pay parking fees even for spaces in front of their premises, no civic body has upgraded the infrastructure in the area. Khandelwal complained that the sewer lines, over five decades old, were never maintained and are all clogged now. “We don’t even have a water-sewer connection in this day and age. Is this how we encourage hi-tech industries?” he fumed. During its visit to the area, TOI noted the pathetic state of the roads, the dust and the debris. Akash Gupta, a businessman, said that it becomes impossible to commute during the rainy season. “The road has never been developed here. If it’s not the rain during the monsoons, then it’s dust pollution,” Gupta said. “Nobody takes responsibility for the area, not DDA, SDMC or DSIIDC.” He also complained about rampant encroachments of public spaces. When asked for a response, a spokesperson said that the maintenance of Mohan Industrial Estate didn’t fall under Delhi government. An SDMC official countered that the area had not been transferred to the jurisdiction of the civic body. On the Delhi-Haryana border with direct connectivity to Gurgaon, Faridabad and other markets, Mohan Industrial Estate has location advantages that led to its development as a mini-hub for enterprises centred on BPO, KPO, e-commerce, pharmaceuticals and information technology. Shankar Ingrish, another unit owner, compared the locality to an orphaned child’s fate. “We don’t know who we are with and nobody is willing to take care of us. It is an amazing location in terms of commercial convenience, but we don’t have amenities,” Ingrish rued. Ingrish disclosed that except for a few plots that had old permissions for tubewells and ground water extraction, the rest of the units depend on water tankers because there is no piped water supply. He added, “A new parking contractor has been appointed and we haven’t even been informed which spaces now come under paid parking. So, I have to pay for my parked car, but the civic authorities will put in any money to improve the infrastructure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/swanky-cars-in-dust-bowl-state-of-an-industrial-hub-that-pays-crores-in-tax/articleshow/79586932.cms||Paras Singh
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Complete land acquisition for Kompally IT hub: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal and information technology (IT) minister KT Rama Rao has said the government will expand IT to Tier II cities. He said foundation would be laid for an IT hub at Kompally in Medchal-Malkajgiri district soon apart from inaugurating an IT tower in Khammam on Monday. The minister said there was an overwhelming response for the growth in dispersion (GRID), which was proposed to focus on promoting dispersed growth across Greater Hyderabad, especially at places like Nacharam and Uppal industrial areas.KTR was back to his routine after a gap of nearly a month and held a review meeting on IT and ease of doing business with officials on Saturday. He said the state government already initiated measures for expansion of IT to Warangal, Khammam and Mahbubnagar. “Two companies are evincing interest for setting their shop in Warangal in the second phase. The Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) should make arrangements for providing infrastructure facilities at the IT tower in Warangal,” the minister said. He also instructed TSIIC managing director EV Narasimha Reddy to complete land acquisition process for the IT park at Kompally at the earliest, where the revenue department had identified the land and arrangements were being made for a laying foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/complete-land-acquisition-for-kompally-it-hub-ktr/articleshow/79586861.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Shimla||905 test Covid-19 positive in Himachal Pradesh, 13 die||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 13 Covid-19 deaths and 905 positive cases on Saturday while 945 positive patients have also recovered. Four deaths have been reported from Shimla district, two each in Kangra, Lahaul-Spiti and Solan and one each in Chamba, Mandi and Bilaspur districts. As many as 44,405 positive cases have been reported, of which 8,247 are active, 35,403 patients have recovered, 711 have died and 34 have migrated out of the state. A total of 56,6,956 persons have been tested for Covid-19 in the state till Saturday, of whom 5,21,359 persons have tested negative while the results of 1,192 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include 48 from Bilaspur district, 52 from Chamba, 40 from Hamirpur, 113 from Kullu, 22 from Kinnaur, 25 from Kullu, 13 from Lahaul-Spiti, 204 from Mandi, 243 from Shimla, 11 from Sirmaur, 112 from Solan and 22 from Una.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/905-test-ve-in-himachal-13-die/articleshow/79586848.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Sainikpuri man nabbed for cheating||HYDERABAD: A resident of Sainikpuri was nabbed by Central Crime Station, Hyderabad, sleuths on Saturday as he allegedly duped more than 100 investors after accepting huge investments from them. Sources said that persons from Hyderabad, Delhi and West Bengal were duped by the accused. Three months ago, a city resident lodged a complaint alleging that the accused had collected money from him in the pretext of investing money in online trading. Then, there was no response from the accused. After investigation, the accused was nabbed and a cheating case registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sainikpuri-man-nabbed-for-cheating/articleshow/79586872.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR to review Rythu Bandhu on Mon||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will hold a meeting on Monday to discuss the release of funds for the second phase of Rythu Bandhu assistance. Government has not released the amount for Yasangi season so far due to polls and financial constraints. Agriculture minister S Niranjan Reddy, chief secretary Somesh Kumar and principal secretaries for agriculture and finance departments will attend the meeting. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-review-rythu-bandhu-on-mon/articleshow/79586837.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Forest department to speed up pending work||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Forest Department in a review decided to speed up forest protection works that slowed down due to Covid-19. The principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) R Sobha advised officials to make arrangements for the next season of Haritha Haram. The PCCF further asked the officials to ensure that all precautions are taken to keep wild animals in forests and reduce man-animal conflicts. Meanwhile, IFS officer Swargam Srinivas has been promoted as principal chief conservator of forests (P&V), office of the principal chief conservator of sorests (HoFF), Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forest-dept-to-speed-up-pending-work/articleshow/79586888.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Majerhat bridge reopening paves way for metro station work||KOLKATA: Construction of the Majerhat station of the 16.5km Joka-Esplanade Metro that had been stalled ever since Majerhat bridge collapsed, has started. With the Majerhat bridge issue out of the way, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the agency tasked to build most of the city’s Metro projects that are underway, has started the foundation work. But Gammon India, which was building the station when the bridge collapsed on September 4, 2018, abandoned the project — as design issues cropped up — in order to accommodate the bridge’s reconstruction. So, re-tendering was done and GBT Infraprojects, won the Rs 190-crore contract to build the rest of the 1.3km viaduct on the Taratala-Mominore stretch and the two stations — Majerhat and Mominore. The Majerhat Metro station is coming up just beside the bridge. A 3m space around the pylon cross-section designed for the new bridge needed to be kept free. Therefore, RVNL was asked to stop work at this particular section. A 1.2m protrusion infringed upon the stipulated 4m gap between the proposed bridge and the Majerhat Metro station. PWD asked RVNL to stall construction of the cantilever section of the Majerhat Metro station because they would need a 3m space for movement of machines for piling (foundation) or pilecap of the pylon. That’s when the contractors walked out of the project. With the bridge nearing completion, RVNL invited fresh bids for the two Metro stations near the bridge and the 1.3km viaduct in June, this year. GBT Infraprojects emerged the lowest bidder. “Now that the bridge has been completed, there’s no hurdle for the Majerhat Metro station. We have a December 2022 target to start operations on phase 2 — the 2.6km Taratala-Mominpur stretch, and a December 2021 deadline for the 8.5km Joka-Taratala section,” a senior RVNL official said. The line is elevated from Joka to Mominpore. The 5.6km Mominpore-Esplanade stretch is underground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bridge-reopening-paves-way-for-metro-stn-work/articleshow/79585797.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC witnesses growth in patronage||HYDERABAD: Two months after resuming bus services in the city, the TSRTC is now witnessing a growing patronage with overall occupancy registering a steady rise. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, TSRTC had suspended operations for over six months and resumed services on September 25. While the services were resumed in September with only 25 per cent of the total 2,800 buses at 29 depots in Greater Hyderabad limits, another 25 percent services were resumed last month after recording a steady rise in occupancy rate. V Venkateshwarlu, Executive Director (Greater Hyderabad Zone) said, “When services resumed post lockdown, the corporation registered an occupancy of 10 percent. Now, the occupancy has touched 45 per cent but many routes are registering a very low patronage because there are no schools and IT employees are still working from home.” On the other hand, the corporation’s efforts to increase its revenue are yielding results with its parcel, courier and cargo services (PCC) evoking an encouraging response from customers.  PCC services, which were introduced in June this year, are being used for freight transport, with first phase of services made available from 147 bus stations across the state including Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, Jubilee Bus Station and Rathifile bus station in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-witnesses-growth-in-patronage/articleshow/79586902.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chandigarh||644 Covid-19 cases, 23 deaths reported in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 23 more Covid-19 deaths and 644 fresh cases on Saturday. With this, the total cases in the state rose to 1,55,424 and death toll to 4,905. There are 7,727 active cases in Punjab. Of deaths reported in last 24 hours, six people died in Patiala, four in Jalandhar, three in Mohali, two each in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Ropar, and one each in Muktsar, Kapurthala, Barnala, Kapurthala and Faridkot. Mohali contributed 115 cases to the state’s overall tally, while 87 people were detected positive in Amritsar, 80 in Jalandhar, 77 in Ludhiana and 51 in Patiala. As many as 44 people were found positive in Hoshiarpur, 33 in Bathinda, 24 in Ropar, 19 in Fazilka, 16 in Mansa, 14 in Kapurthala, in 12 in Pathankot, nine in Fatehgarh Sahib, eight in Moga, six each in Barnala and Nawanshahr, four in Faridkot, three each in Ferozpur and Sangrur, and two in Tarn Taran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/644-cases-23-deaths-reported-in-punjab/articleshow/79586874.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Air quality slumps to ‘poor’ in two weeks||AHMEDABAD: The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Ahmedabad city, which was below 100 on November 21, slumped to ‘poor’ category in two weeks with the index crossing the 200 marks on Saturday. Of the 10 areas in the city which are monitored by Safar, six had ‘poor’ air quality while two had AQI of over 180 which was ‘moderate’. The best AQI in the Ahmedabad was that of Gift city situated on the outskirts. For the past two days, the AQI in Ahmedabad city hovered around 200. As the bio-mining project has started again and movement of vehicles has gained momentum, the AQI at Pirana is recorded above 300. The AQI on November 21 was below 100 for almost all parts of the city with the highest AQI reported from Raikhad area at 122. Surprisingly, Bopal on Saturday recorded AQI of 211 which was the lowest in the city on November 21 at 77. The officials said that there might be some respite in the AQI on Sunday as it was expected to be around 186 which will be moderate. The website also indicated that the AQI will be around 170 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/air-quality-slumps-to-poor-in-two-weeks/articleshow/79585810.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid: Plaint line open to AMC chief||Ahmedabad: The AMC has made it clear that any complaint related to the 106 designated Covid hospitals in the city should be sent directly to municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. An AMC press release issued on Saturday stated that the corporation had under the Epidemic Act designated 106 private hospitals in the city as Covid-treatment facilities. Any person who is not satisfied with the treatment, faces issues over payment, or experiences any hardship can inform the commissioner. After receiving such a complaint, the commissioner will initiate an inquiry and if any irregularity is found, action will be taken against the hospital concerned. The AMC was forced to take such a step as more and more people are seeking treatment at private hospitals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-plaint-line-open-to-amc-chief/articleshow/79585816.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||Former Deputy Speaker of U’khand assembly Anusuya Prasad Maikhuri passes away at 67||Dehradun: Two-time Congress legislator Anusuya Prasad Maikhuri – also the deputy Speaker of assembly from 2012 to 2017 – passed away on Saturday. The 67-year-old Congress leader was suffering a kidney ailment. Recently, he had also tested positive for Covid-19 but had recovered from the virus after undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dehradun. Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana told TOI, “He recovered from Covid-19 and his report later came as negative. However, his kidney and lungs got damaged and he was admitted in the hospital for over a month. He breathed his last on Saturday.” An MLA from Badrinath constituency from 2002 to 2017, Maikhuri contested and won from Karnaprayag constituency in 2012. Maikhuri had been raising his voice for many years to declare Gairsain as the state capital of Uttarakhand. He was a native of the Maikhura area of Karnaprayag Tehsil in Chamoli district. Maikhuri did his MA from Meerut in 1976. Thereafter, he completed LLB in 1982, B.Ed in 1994, and PhD in 2001 from Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University. Meanwhile, state Congress chief Pritam Singh held a condolence meet, which was attended by senior members including Heera Singh Bisht, Vijay Pal Sajwan, and Dhirendra Pratap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-deputy-speaker-of-ukhand-assembly-anusuya-prasad-maikhuri-passes-away-at-67/articleshow/79585028.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Man kills wife for not giving food on time at Telangana's Meerpet||HYDERABAD: A 40-year-old housewife was allegedly killed by her husband after she failed to cook food for him on time in Meerpet on Friday. Meerpet police said that B Jayamma got married to lorry driver Srinu 20 years ago. On Friday, she and her son went to attend a wedding and Srinu to attend some other function. After the mother and son returned home, Srinu also came back and asked Jayamma to cook food as he need to take the lorry out. Later, when he checked the food was not ready. He picked up quarrel and later he allegedly strangled her to death using her saree. At the time of the incident, their son was not at home. When the son returned, he found his mother on the floor and his father missing. A case was registered under section 302(murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-kills-wife-for-not-giving-food-on-time/articleshow/79586911.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Goa||Tender floated to hire fishing trawlers||Panaji: The state fisheries department has invited sealed tender for the supply of a private fishing trawler for hire “as and when required”. Sources from the department said that the vessels will be hired for about three days as part of a Sagarkavach exercise. In an annual exercise conducted by the coast guard, fishing vessels are hired through the fisheries department. The department has therefore floated a tender to hire the vessel from private operators. Here, five fishing vessels will be selected for the exercise, sources said. The three-day exercise is going to held on December 14, 15 and 16. The last date for the receipt of tender is December 8 at 3pm and the same will be opened on December 9 at 11am. The tender forms along with terms and conditions are available at the head office of the directorate of fisheries, D B Marg, Panaji till December 8 at 1pm, at Rs 500 for each form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tender-floated-to-hire-fishing-trawlers/articleshow/79586929.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Peak-hour traffic on new bridge eases as selfie crowd thins||Kolkata: The morning peak-hour traffic snarls that had highlighted the first day of the Majerhat bridge resumption cleared on Saturday, courtesy a strategic management of traffic flow by cops along Diamond Harbour Road and the absence of “bridge-tourists” who were on the ROB for fun and were slowing down traffic by stopping on the bridge to shoot selfies and videos.“The situation was brought under control from Friday afternoon when the number of casual visitors dipped and only genuine commuters along the route started using the bridge. From Saturday morning, the traffic moved just as per our estimate and there were no snarls on either side of the bridge,” said a senior officer of the Kolkata Police traffic department.Cops said Saturday, being a non-working day also helped. Officers of South west traffic guard — in charge of traffic maintenance on the bridge — also worked in close coordination with the DH Road traffic guard on the Behala end and Vidyasagar Setu traffic guard on the Ekbalpore end to ensure smooth flow of vehicles.“The carrying capacity of the bridge has exceeded by more than two times. Hence, if the approach roads to the bridge are kept free, congestion will automatically ease,” said Ajay Das, former chief traffic transportation engineer of the state transport department.Cops aso continued their drive against unsafe riding by two-wheeler owners, stopping cyclists trying to get on the bridge and booking bikers without helmets.Meanwhile, three bus routes considered the lifeline of Behala — connecting the area with Park Street, Esplanade, Sealdah, Maniktala, R G Kar and Baranagar — resumed services, bringing much needed respite to commuters. Buses plying on routes 3D (Sakherbazar-Milk Colony via Kidderpore), 3D/1 (Sakherbazar-Milk colony via Rabindra Sadan-Park street) and 222 (Behala Chowrasta- Bonhooghly), which had over 100 buses have resumed services. Two others — 235 (Amtala-Salt Lake) and 18A (Greenfield City-Howrah) are likely to ramp up services from Monday.Commuters said that they are still hoping for services to normalize. “The owners cannot complain of losses now as almost all buses are plying with passengers standing,” said Dipannita Mukherjee, a resident from Silpara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/peak-hour-traffic-on-new-bridge-eases-as-selfie-crowd-thins/articleshow/79585814.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Minor gang-raped in New Town||KOLKATA: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped on Friday by four youths on a vacant plot in New Town. The girl was out on an evening walk with a friend and they were stopped at a dimly lit and secluded area. The four accused — all in the twenties — were arrested before midnight. The incident occurred around 9.30pm, around 1km from Eco Park. Cops on evening patrol were alerted by the muffled cries of the woman around 10.30pm when they found the girl battered and bruised in the bushes. Shortly after that they arrested one of the four youths, who was still in the area. “The girl told us how the youths beat up her friend and took turns to rape her amid tall grasses. The youth who was apprehended from the spot revealed the whereabouts of the other three. Multiple teams of officers launched a manhunt and managed to arrest all of them before midnight from three different places,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. Police said the accused knew the girl and stalked her when she set out with her friend towards the desolate area, around two kilometres from her home. Cops booked four of them under IPC sections 376D (gang rape), 342 (wrongful confinement) and Section 6 of Pocso Act dealing with aggravated penetrative sexual assault. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/minor-gang-raped-in-new-town/articleshow/79585819.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Hyderabad||Invalid, Nota votes play spoilsport in several wards||HYDERABAD: Blame Nota and invalid votes for the defeat of some candidates in the GHMC polls. But that the voters were not happy with any of the candidates in the fray was reflected in the votes polled for NOTA. A substantial number of invalid votes were polled and also for Nota in the 150 divisions in the GHMC polls held on December 1. The division-wise details of the votes polled were out on Saturday. The invalid votes were rejected. It would have been a close call for many if the rejected votes and Nota polled votes were considered. For example, in Macha Bolaram division, there were 473 rejected votes and 302 votes polled for Nota. TRS candidate ES Raj Jitendranath polled 12,089 votes with BJP’s Sarvey Naresh got 12,055 votes. The difference in margin was only 34 votes. Mettuguda division verdict which TRS candidate R Sunitha won is interesting. She polled 7,592 votes with BJP rival U Sharada Mallesh coming in a close second with 7,008 votes with the victory margin being 584 votes. The rejected votes in the division 340 votes and Nota 230 votes, add up to 570 votes. The most number of rejected votes were cast in: Amberpet 1,133, Goshamahal 1,109, Shalibanda 1,011, Goshamahal 1,109, Jambagh 987, Nallakunta 955, Golnaka 851, Jangammet 756, Kummarguda 745, Chandrayangutta 735, Kanchanbagh 729, Falakunuma 700, Mallapur 671, Uppguda 662, Pathergatti 611 and Gowlipura 615. A TRS candidate who broke into tears after she lost alleged that all the rejected votes were added to the count of the BJP votes by the polling staff in one ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/invalid-nota-votes-play-spoilsport-in-several-wards/articleshow/79586926.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU asks student to prove Indian citizenship for info under RTI||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat University has asked its student to establish her Indian citizenship first in order to get information under RTI provisions. This has created a controversy and an MLA has complained about this issue to the chief minister and sought action against the university authorities. A law student studying in Gandhinagar’s Siddharth Law College, Tanaz Afzalkhan Nagori, sought details about marks obtained in internal examination of sixth semester. She was not satisfied with her result declared this year after she took examinations conducted by GU. Nagori filed an application under the Right to Information Act in October and sought details and document related to result of internal examinations. On December 3, the student received a letter from the public information officer of GU’s examination section asking her to furnish evidence of her Indian citizenship. The letter said that section 6 of the RTI Act confers right to Indian citizens to obtain information. Once she supplies proof of her Indian citizenship, further action will be taken on her application filed under the RTI Act. Denial of information by GU before ascertaining Nagori’s citizenship has created a controversy. Dariapur MLA, Gyasuddin Shaikh, on Saturday wrote a letter to the chief minister and demanded action against the responsible officials of the university for “denying information to the Muslim student” under the pretext of citizenship proof. The legislator has stated that the GU authorities did not supply information under the limited period of 30 days. Ultimately, when she received a reply from the university, she was asked to establish her Indian citizenship first. He further stated that Nagori has topped the exams in her law degree course and was felicitated with four gold medals from the governor and the education minister in GU’s 68th convocation. He has sought action against the public information officer and other responsible authorities of the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-asks-student-to-prove-indian-citizenship-for-info-under-rti/articleshow/79585820.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||After 397 years: Jupiter-Saturn spectacle on December 21 set to wow stargazers||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 pandemic has completely disrupted life on earth. But celestial movements continue uninterrupted. And every once in a while comes a spectacle that has the ability to drive away all the earthly despondence and leave one in wonder and amazement.  The night of December 21 promises such an experience over the great conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn. The two planets will almost overlap each other — the closest they will appear in four centuries. “This will be the second-most close conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn since the invention of the telescope in 1609 by Galileo Galilei. The two planets have not been viewed this close to each other since 16 July, 1623,” pointed out M P Birla Institute of Fundamental Research director Debiprosad Duari. Prior to 1623, the closest observable Jupiter-Saturn conjunction was in the medieval times — in 1226. December 23 also happens to be winter solstice in the northern hemisphere, the longest night of the year. While a conjunction between Jupiter and Saturn occurs at an interval of 19 years and seven months, the proximity between them when viewed from earth varies and hasn’t appeared this close in 397 years. Jupiter takes 11.86 years to go around the sun once. The orbital period of Saturn is around 29.5 years. A conjunction is an apparent phenomenon caused by the observer’s perspective: the two objects involved are not actually close to one another in space. Two celestial bodies visually appearing close to each other, as seen from the earth is called a conjunction. A conjunction of Saturn and Jupiter is called a ‘great conjunction’. The once-in-a-lifetime super conjunction has sparked great excitement among sky lovers and enthusiasts. The next occasion when these two giant planets will come comparably close will be on March 15, 2080. But they will not appear this close. Though the two planets will appear juxtaposed one on top of the other on December 21, their actual distance from each other will be around 735 million kilometres. In Kolkata, the conjunction can be viewed on the south-western horizon, between 5.28pm when the sun will set that day and 7.12pm when the two planets will disappear beyond the horizon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jupiter-saturn-spectacle-on-dec-21-set-to-wow-stargazers/articleshow/79585817.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Administrator to be appointed for AMC?||Ahmedabad: The last general board meeting of this set of elected councillors in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has been scheduled for December 12, as their term expires on December 13. This means the city may soon have an administrator replacing the elected body. The move put a full stop to speculation that the present body of the BJP, led by Mayor Bijal Patel, would be given an extension till the elections are held and the new mayor is elected. Bijal Patel said, “My term as mayor expires on December 13 and it is my duty to ensure all proposals cleared by the standing committee are cleared in the general board and this has thus been scheduled for December 12.” Usually the general board meeting is scheduled for the last Friday of the month. Officials said there was speculation that the present body may get an extension till the next election. As the standing committee meeting was held on Friday and all the proposal cleared by the health and solid waste committees and other committee were included on the agenda, it indicates that they next committee meeting may just be a formality to bid each other farewell. Officials said that since the state election commission had postponed the elections, it was speculated that the ruling party may get extension. A senior BJP office bearer said several party meetings were held and the party has not given any indication of an extension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/administrator-to-be-appointed-for-amc/articleshow/79585824.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Dehradun||After Haridwar, BJP national president JP Nadda meets party workers in Doon||Dehradun: A day after BJP president JP Nadda kicked off his 120-day-long nationwide tour from Haridwar, he reached Dehradun on Saturday to a rousing welcome from the party cadre. To welcome him, thousands of BJP functionaries stood along the side of the roads creating human chains. Several party workers, both men and women, were dressed in traditional Uttarakhandi attires to welcome Nadda. However, social distancing norms went for a toss quite similar to what was seen in the Haridwar events on Friday. Meanwhile, in his address, Nadda praised the role of the BJP workers in shaping the party. “Workers are the people who built the party. I will request each party worker to learn about at least 20 achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and make people aware of them,” said Nadda. Attacking the opposition parties, Nadda said, “Our opponents have been working on selfish agendas and are thus being rejected by the public. In the Bihar elections, we won 74 out of 110 seats. Our strike rate was 67%, better than any other party. The primary reason behind our wins is our agenda of development.” Slamming the Congress party, he said, “Imran Khan opposed India in the United Nations by quoting Rahul Gandhi. Meanwhile, a senior Congress minister is talking about revoking Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, which we abrogated after much struggle. Also, Congress leaders like Shashi Tharoor go to Pakistan and speak ill of their own country. This is the reason why the people of India have given us a huge mandate not just in Lok Sabha but also in states. We are also winning municipal elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-haridwar-bjp-national-president-jp-nadda-meets-party-workers-in-doon/articleshow/79585046.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Protests to express solidarity with farmers||Ranchi: Political parties -- Congress, RJD and Left outfits -- on Saturday staged demonstrations at the block level and in the state capital in support of farmers who protesting along the borders of New Delhi against the new farm laws. The representatives of CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L) and the Marxist Coordination Committee burnt an effigy of central government at Albert Ekka Chowk and raised slogans demanding the withdrawal of the ‘black laws’. They also opposed the alleged anti-constitutional steps and corporatisation of agriculture. CPM state secretariat member Prakash Viplav said that Centre was inclined to crush farmers’ rights and ignored the constitution by framing the laws on agriculture, which is a state subject. He said, “The laws were framed without consulting the state government. This is an attack on federalism. The laws will finish the identity of farmers and also impact the public distribution system.” CPI district secretary Ajay Singh said protests against the laws were also held at the block level across the state. RJD staged demonstration in Kanke block. Congress party held demonstrations at the block level demanding withdrawal of the new farm laws and then submitted memorandum addressed to the President of India. Party leaders said that central government has attacked the livelihood of farmers by getting the laws passed in Parliament. Stating that laws are made in view of public aspiration, the leaders stated neither the NDA government consulted the farmer’s body nor the latter had raised any demand in this regard. They said that the winter session of Parliament must be convened to annul the laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/protests-to-express-solidarity-with-farmers/articleshow/79585745.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Mass loan mela to ease street vendors out of lockdown lull||RANCHI: In order to revitalise the urban economy by providing soft loans to street vendors, public sector banks in collaboration with the state urban development department on Saturday organised a mass loan mela across three cities, including Ranchi. As part of the fair, the banks gave street vendors and other small business owners collateral-free loans under the PM Street Vendors’ Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PMSVAN) scheme so that they can resume their work which was disrupted due to the Covid-induced lockdown. In Ranchi, the event was organised in Harmu and inaugurated in the presence of state urban development secretary Vinay Choubey and senior officials from municipal administration and the Bank of India (BOI). Vijaya Jadhav, the director of municipal administration, said, “The idea is to financially support the street vendors and others working in the unorganized sectors so that they can get their livelihood back.” He added, “We had conducted a survey some time ago to collect information about those who were rendered jobless because of the lockdown and a total of 41,000 people were identified across various urban local bodies. Till now, the banks have processed loan applications of more than 25,000 vendors and over 20,000 have been sanctioned already.” Vibhav Kumar, senior manager at BOI and a member of the Jharkhand-based Bankers Committee, said they had set a target of sanctioning loans across three large urban local bodies and they have already sanctioned 6,000 in the last 10 days alone. “A total of 2,400 loans were sanctioned in Ranchi while over 2,000 in Dhanbad and 1,800 in East Singhbhum have been processed between November 26 and December 5,” he added. The PMSVAN scheme was launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on June 1 and it provides loans of up to Rs 10,000 (payable within a year). The Union government is also providing an interest subsidy of 7% on regular payment which is directly transferred to the bank accounts of the borrower. Vegetable vendor Amrita Devi, who has availed the benefits of the scheme, said, “I used to sell vegetables near Birsa Chowk but during lockdown, I lost my only source of income. I did not have the capital to set up my shop again but now thanks to the PMSVAN loan, I no longer have to work as a daily wage labourer – a challenging task to do when you have two kids to take care of — and can go back to my old business.” Another beneficiary named Suraj Kumar Rajak said, “Prior to the lockdown, I used to sell clothes on a pavement near the Indian Bank on Main Road. However, in order to make ends meet, I started selling vegetables during lockdown but I could not sustain for long because there is intense competition and I was new to the trade. With this loan, I will bring in a fresh stock of clothes and will start my makeshift shop again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mass-loan-mela-to-ease-street-vendors-out-of-lockdown-lull/articleshow/79585659.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Three of family attack cops inside Laxmipura police station||Vadodara: Two persons were held and while one managed to flee after creating a ruckus at Laxmipura police station on Friday night and getting into a brawl with cops. Police said that on receiving a distress call from a person living in Samta on Friday night, three persons were taken to the police station. One of the three persons Arjun alias Mahi Mandlik insisted that his police complaint be also registered and started shouting. When he was asked to keep his voice low, his two other family members – Kishor alias Keshav Mandlik and Madhav Mandlik – reached the police station and joined Arjun in creating a ruckus. The trio banged the table and chair in the police station. When the cops intervened, Keshav hit the police station officer with a chair while Arjun hit a constable Meenaxi Narendraprasad with a table. Madhav got into a fistfight with another head constable. As a commotion ensued inside the police station, some cops who were standing outside, rushed in and tried to nab the trio. While Arjun and Keshav were nabbed, Madhav managed to flee. An offence of assaulting a public servant was registered against the trio on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-of-family-attack-cops-inside-laxmipura-police-station/articleshow/79585416.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Private investment to rejuvenate ailing tourist spots in Jharkhand||RANCHI: The state tourism department’s New Tourism Policy, 2020, is aimed at wooing private investment to rejuvenate the ailing tourist spots of Jharkhand and generate one lakh jobs to to combat job losses due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Earlier this week, chief minister Hemant Soren, who will complete a year in office this month, has given his in-principal agreement to the draft policy, which will now be tabled in cabinet for a formal rollout. Talking to TOI on Saturday, state tourism director A Dodde said the policy is expected to be rolled out next year. “We are sending it to cabinet and, if all goes well, it is expected to be ratified this month. We will soon notify it for a formal launch early next year,” he said. Sources in the department added that the CM is expected to unveil the new tourism policy on the occasion of the first anniversary of the mahagatbandhan government on December 29. Jharkhand first got its tourism policy in 2015 during the erstwhile BJP government under the leadership of Raghubar Das. Citing the need for a new policy, Dodde said the earlier plan failed to evince any private investment in tourism sector. Detailing the salient features of the new policy, he said, “For the first time, we have provisioned 30% subsidy on capital investment or up to Rs 10 crore whichever is lesser. If the investment is in scheduled area, an additional 5% subsidy will be granted on capital investment. In the earlier policy, the maximum subsidy was Rs 1.5 crore, which did not interest any private player.” Dodde said despite having immense natural beauty and resources, the reason the state is lagging behind in the tourism sector is lack of investment to create capital assets for tourists. “The facilities that exist have been created by the government using its own funds. However, in the long run, a government can’t go on spending alone. We have now decided to open this sector to private players so that they can set up facilities, create infrastructure while we act as facilitators,” he said, adding that the spike in investments will also lead to creation of jobs. “Tourism and hospitality industry is one sector where lots of jobs can be created. Under this policy, we are hoping to generate anywhere between 75,000 to 1,00,00 jobs,” he said, adding that the policy has been prepared after studying the best practices from top destination states like Rajasthan, Kerala, Goa, Gujarat among others to conceptualise a policy to suit state’s needs. Creation of Tourist Security Force (TSF) has also been provisioned in the new policy. Another official said, “Tourists will only get attracted when their safety and security is ensured. Hence, TSF will act as facilitators for tourists for taking care of their all kinds of needs, including security.” The department has divided tourist circuits into different sectors — religious, ecological, cultural, rural, craft, adventure, weekend getaway, film, water sports, recreation, wellness and mines — for segment-specific intervention. There is also a plan to geo-tag all the tourist places, document their significance, and host them at a single window platform so that all needs of tourists can be availed at a tap of a button. “We are also planning to devise a dedicated one-stop portal/app and other kinds of digital interface to suit all kinds of needs of tourists. Also, there is a plan to prepare a system for documentation of every visitor,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pvt-investment-to-rejuvenate-ailing-tourist-spots-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79585783.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Elderly woman killed over witchcraft suspicion in Gumla||GUMLA: An elderly woman was killed by a villager and others on suspicion of practicing witchcraft in Koynara village under Gumla police station on Friday night. The woman, Karmi Oraon (65), is survived by two sons. While one is said to be mentally challenged, the other works in Ranchi as a labourer. Although a named FIR has been filed against a few villagers, no arrests have been made so far, police said on Saturday. Officer in-charge of Gumla police station P S Vimal Kumar said raids are on to arrest the accused. According to police, Karmi had gone to wash clothes at a pond 1.5 km away from the village at 4.30pm on Friday. When she did not return, the villagers started looking for her. “Around 6.15pm they found her body near the pond. She was attacked with a sharp-edged traditional weapon,” Kumar said. “Her son Veer Oraon, who lives in Ranchi, filed the FIR against Pheku Oraon, a resident of the same village and accused him and others of killing his mother on charges of practicing black magic,” he added. Feku happens to be the brother of a 22-year-of Chaitu Oraon, who died in November last month due to some ailment. His family members charged Karmi of performing black magic on him leading to his death. Village sources said that tension had been brewing between the two families since Chaitu’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/elderly-woman-killed-over-witchcraft-suspicion-in-gumla/articleshow/79585662.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||State passes festive and bypoll tests, bends Covid graph||Ranchi: After putting up a relentless fight for the past six months, Jharkhand seems to have bent the Covid graph. The positivity rate — which was at its peak in July when out of every 100 sample, six tested positive — started declining from September when it hovered around 3% and last month it went below 1%. This reduction in rate despite hosting back-to-back festivals and twin bypolls indicates that things went in the right direction — both medically and administratively. In terms of absolute figures, September was the worst-hit month with 41,882 cases being reported but in terms of casualties, July was the worst with 313 deaths. As part of a mass testing drive conducted in August, out of the one lakh samples tested, only 3,331 were positive. Similarly, another testing drive in November indicated the curb in virus spread when only 198 samples tested positive out of a similar sample size, thus resulting in the positivity rate currently standing at 0.18%. Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, the head of trauma and critical care at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) and the one responsible for managing the affairs of the state Covid centre, credited the success to the common people’s responsible behaviour. “Everyone has contributed in whatever way they could to control the virus spread. If the public did not avoid mass gatherings and follow all the safety norms diligently, it would have been difficult to control the spread after the festive season,” he said. With just nine active cases, the Covid centre at Rims now appears less loaded, a sharp contrast to what the scenario was like just a few weeks ago when the hospital was flooded with critical patients. Dr Bhattacharya said, “Although, there are reports doing rounds globally that the virus strain is gradually becoming less infectious, we cannot draw a conclusion without proper data.” Principal health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni feels this would not have been possible without the effective administrative strategies. “Targeted testing and timely isolation played a major role in containing the virus. Unlocking in a phased manner and keeping places of mass gatherings, like schools and colleges, closed played a big role as well,” he said. The health department was worried about a fresh spike in cases after Chhath Puja last month but was relieved after the incubation period of 14 days went without any fresh spike. Kulkarni said that credit should be given to the public’s immunity, especially to the villagers as the virus could not invade much into rural areas except for a brief period when the migrant labourers returned to their native places. Indian Medical Association (Jharkhand) president Dr Arun Kumar Singh agreed with the health secretary and said that fear of contracting the virus made people stock up on immunity pills and adopt healthy eating habits, besides wearing masks. “Many became mindful of what they were eating and immunity boosting food ranked high on every one’s menu. Even if they got infected, their strong immune system could combat the virus,” he said. Some experts also attributed the success to the lack of modern urban amenities in Jharkhand. Dr Jogesh Gambhir, the state president of Association of Healthcare Providers of India, said, “Unlike Delhi and other cities, we do not have mass transportation systems like local trains and metros nor do we have closed market places like Palika Bazar in New Delhi and so the virus could not proliferate much in urban areas.” As of Saturday morning, four urban centres — Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Bokaro and Dhanbad — accounted for more than half of the total number of active cases in Jharkhand. Out of nearly 1,970 cases, Ranchi and Jamshedpur alone account for 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-passes-festive-and-bypoll-tests-bends-covid-graph/articleshow/79585749.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 6, 2020||India||Pfizer seeks emergency use nod in India||NEW DELHI: Pfizer India has become the first pharma firm to seek an emergency use authorisation from the DCGI for its Covid vaccine in India after its parent company secured such approval in the UK and Bahrain. In its application on December 4, the firm asked the drug regulator for nod to import the vaccine for sale and distribution in India besides waiver of clinical trials on Indian population as per the special provisions under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pfizer-seeks-emergency-use-nod-in-india/articleshow/79587679.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: CA arrested for Rs 7.5 crore GST fraud||VISAKHAPATNAM: Visakhapatnam GST Intelligence sleuths arrested a chartered accountant on Saturday and busted a major fake input tax credit (ITC) racket operated by the 28-year-old CA based out of Guntur. The Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), as part of its drive against ITC rackets that help in evading taxes, has booked 11 cases in the last two months and detected 51 such dummy or non-existent GST registrations. Fake transactions to the tune of Rs 440 crore involving duty evasion of Rs 38 crore have been detected by the DGGI. The CA was involved in issuing fake GST invoices to the tune of Rs 30 crore, using 14 fraudulent GST-registered firms, to various infra firms located in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and used to get commission from the recipient entities of such fake invoices without the knowledge of the proprietors of those business entities. Various firms, mostly created with fictitious addresses in and around Guntur, were identified and simultaneous searches were carried out at various locations in AP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ca-arrested-for-rs-7-5-crore-gst-fraud/articleshow/79585093.cms||Siva G
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vudu Park in Visakhapatnam to get a smart solar flower||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will install a smart solar flower at VMRDA Park (popularly known as Vuda Park) with around Rs 40 lakh as part of on-going renovation works. The smart solar flower, which works on a mechanism similar to a sunflower, is a ground-mounted solar system that follows the sun all day. GVMC believes that the smart solar power will become another attraction at this popular park. Even though the park belongs to the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA), GVMC has included the facelift for the park as a convergence project under the Vizag Smart City project. GVMC will spend a total of Rs 33.5 crore on park facelift works. GVMC superintending engineer (smart city) M Vinay Kumar said that park renovation works will be completed within the next one month. “Several smart city projects will be concluded in December,” Vinay Kumar said. The park is set to host a range of attractions including multipurpose play areas, galleries, an amphitheatre, lake boating, walking tracks and yoga space. It will also house rare and medicinal plants. A bonsai garden will be developed. Located adjacent to the beachfront with idyllic hills on the other side, the Vuda Park is one of the first-generation parks of Vizag which has been serving as a great tourist attraction. Due to its location, the park is visited by both residents and tourists. While the old charm of the park remains intact, the facelift is expected to bring advanced facilities to the park which will attract more visitors. GVMC has developed several parks on the beachfront as well as colonies under the smart city project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vuda-park-to-get-a-smart-solar-flower/articleshow/79585100.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||K’taka may get law to curb cow slaughter too||BELAGAVI: The BJP government in Karnataka is likely to table bills against ‘love jihad’ (unlawful conversion for marriage) and cow slaughter in the upcoming winter session of the legislature, to push its Hindutva agenda ahead of the gram panchayat polls. “Many states have already brought in the bills. We are also in the process of bringing these bills,” deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said. Uttar Pradesh had recently promulgated an ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions, which provides for imprisonment of up to 10 years and a fine of up to Rs 50,000 under different categories. Haryana and Madhya Pradesh governments have started mulling over it. The day-long executive committee meeting of the Karnataka BJP, held in Belagavi on Saturday, passed a resolution urging the Karnataka government to formulate or amend laws at the earliest to curb both cow slaughter and ‘love jihad’. The meeting was attended by chief minister BS Yediyurappa, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh and state president Nalin Kumar Kateel among other senior party functionaries. “We discussed how some terror organisations use love jihad as a tool to convert innocent Hindu women. In view of this larger threat, the party resolved to request the state government to enact laws to stop this practice which is a social evil,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ktaka-may-get-law-to-curb-cow-slaughter-too/articleshow/79587684.cms||Shreyas HS
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Water released from Kalyani Dam||Tirupati: Farmers and locals in Tirupati cheered as water was released from Kalyani Dam near Rangampeta on Saturday according to directions of Chandragiri legislator Dr Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy. With Chittoor district seeing heavy rainfall triggered by back-to-back cyclones within a week, Kalyani Dam has reached its full storage capacity of 895 feet, following which two gates were lifted to release 50 cusecs of water downstream. The dam’s gates were last opened 15 years ago when the region received copious amounts of rainfall.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/water-released-from-kalyani-dam/articleshow/79585119.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 lecture at SRM University||Vijayawada: Prof Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, dept of science & technology, government of India, said Covid-19 has taught a lesson that sustainable development, which as a result of sustainable knowledge, can address major challenges. He said this while delivering a virtual lecture on ‘Art of Science in the time of virus and beyond: The Brave New World’ to students and faculty of SRM University on Saturday. Prof Hema Chandra Reddy, chairman of AP State Council of Higher Education, also participated in the lecture which was attended by faculty members and students. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-lecture-at-srm-university/articleshow/79585137.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Breach Candy shore extends 200-400m after reclamation||MUMBAI: The city's shoreline has extended by 200-400 metres along Priyadarshini Park, Nepean Sea Road and Breach Candy owing to coastal road reclamations. This is the largest reclamation in the city since the 1970s, when reclamation was carried out for the Nariman Point and Backbay areas and thereafter banned. Municipal commissioner I S Chahal said the tunnel boring machine (TBM) to be used to drill through Malabar Hill for the underground section of the coastal road is now being assembled on site and will be ready for boring by December 15. The TBM's constituent parts were brought to Priyadarshini Park in April in 17 trailer trucks. "The sea has receded on account of the reclamation being done for the coastal road. We have completed 17% of the physical work in the last four months and spent Rs 1,281 crore, the highest-ever on the coastal road. Work that had come to a complete standstill has moved at a fast pace," said Chahal. Two days ago, the BMC had arranged a visit for chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to see the progress of work on the 9.98km coastal road, being constructed from near Girgaum Chowpatty to the Bandra Worli sea-link. Seafront residents anguished as the sea recedes from viewResidents of seafront flats along the stretch from Nepean Sea Road to Breach Candy are unhappy about the sea receding from view on account of the coastal road reclamations. Municipal commissioner I S Chahal said he has received several calls from residents of flats and bungalows that till very recently were right next to the sea. “Environment minister Aditya Thackeray mentioned to me that his friend’s wife told him she was from Dehradun and the only reason she married in Mumbai was because the sea was so close to her marital home,” he said. But six months into her marriage, she finds that the sea is no longer nearby. Chahal said the lockdown proved to be a boon for the project as trucks could move without hindrance, though much of the material for reclamation was brought by sea. “Three hillocks were cut for the Navi Mumbai airport project. We brought those boulders here by sea for the reclamations,” he said, adding that the TBM will finish boring under Malabar in nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-breach-candy-shore-extends-200-400m-after-reclamation/articleshow/79587696.cms||Clara Lewis
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 430 railway crime cases in August-November, over 6 times the April-July figure||MUMBAI: After a massive dip in railway crimes in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region during the complete lockdown, cases steadily picked up in the unlocking period of August-November. About 7,500 crimes were recorded in the first quarter of the year, which dropped to a mere 70 cases in the lockdown months of April-July. Times ViewSince entry to stations and local trains is still restricted, the easy trespassing of thieves does not reflect well on the overall security framework. Deployment of police personnel on the suburban railway network must increase and the rate of case-solving, which is a poor 5%, must grow if a deterrent is to be established and the rise in crimes checked.The figure grew to 430 cases in August-November, which was over six times the number of cases recorded in the April-July period and which included serious offences such as molestation. Local trains have still not been thrown open to all, though the last few months have seen more categories of passengers added to the list of people permitted to board them. Overall, railway crimes were much lower compared to last year, when 70 lakh people used to travel in locals daily. Over 31,000 crimes were recorded in the January-November period last year. The figure dropped to around 8,000 in the same period in 2020 as the lockdown limited passengers and services. Three instances of molestation within seven days in November prompted the police to take a re-look at security. "We have increased the number of escorting duty hours in 24-hour ladies coaches," GRP commissioner Ravindra Sengaokar said. Earlier, escorting duty began at 8.30pm and ended at 6am. Now, personnel have been asked to report for duty at 6.30pm and duty concludes at 8am. Each staff member has a fixed number of shifts, so no one is overworked. Robberies and thefts were among the most frequent crimes reported this year. From the around 6,900 thefts in January-March, the figure fell to 50 in April-July and rose again to 315 in August-November. Stealing mobile phones from sleeping commuters and bags from overhead racks was most common. Only 5% of the over 7,200 thefts reported between January and November were solved. The police have increased focus on the Karjat-Kasara route to keep a check on organised gangs that loot passengers of express trains. "The lockdown robbed people of a chance to earn their living. Initially, many survived on savings. But even after unlocking, railways are catering to only a few categories of passengers. Inability to work due to non-availability of affordable transport could have pushed first-timers into crime," Madhu Kotian, president of the Mumbai Rail Pravasi Sangh, said. The police have begun the random inspection of rakes inspection and increased their presence on platforms. "Our officers have been visiting houses of undertrials released from prison due to the Covid situation to check their whereabouts. Besides that, preventive action is being taken against repeat offenders," Sengaokar said. With 640 vacancies, the GRP has manpower issues. Home guards and Maharashtra Security Force personnel, who used to make up for the shortage in the force, have largely stopped reporting to work because of some issues. On Friday, a delivery boy was arrested after a 19-year-old pressed molestation charges against him. The two had had an argument on Thursday at the entrance of Sandhurst Road railway station. The woman had alleged that the accused, Tejas Kadam (38), pulled off her dupatta when she and her mother were at the overcrowded entry-exit point for the railway station. Kadam, a Dombivli resident, has no criminal record.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-430-railway-crime-cases-in-august-november-over-6-times-the-april-july-figure/articleshow/79587708.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 6, 2020||India||Akalis meet TMC netas to strategise||NEW DELHI: A five-member Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) delegation led by party spokesperson and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra came down to Trinamool Bhavan in Kolkata on Saturday to strategize the future course of the farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws enacted by the Centre. The delegation came a day after West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee spoke with the protesting farmers and sent TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien to the stir site at the Delhi-Haryana border in support of their cause. Functionaries of both SAD and TMC decided to meet politicians of other regional parties in a week or two before making a joint march to Rashtrapati Bhavan or going for a joint showdown. “ Our leader Parkash Singh Badal had a talk with (Mamata) Didi. We will work out a joint action plan,” Chandumajra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/akalis-meet-tmc-netas-to-strategise/articleshow/79587711.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Farmers' protests at Delhi borders: Traffic & industry choking, more capital chaos ahead||NEW DELHI: Traffic moved bumper to bumper on key routes in Delhi on Saturday as thousands of protesting farmers stayed put at the city’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for the tenth day. The second carriageway of the Chilla border was also closed to traffic during the day. The police closed the two national highways connecting Ghaziabad with Delhi as the farmers occupied the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. Singhu, Auchandi, Lemuria Maniyari and Mangesh borders were also closed for traffic along with NH-44 on both carriageways. People who use these routes were advised alternative accesses such as via Safiabad, Saboli, NH-8, Bhopra and Apsara borders and the two Peripheral Expressways. In a series of tweets, Delhi Traffic Police suggested optional passages bypassing the roads closed due to the demonstrations. With traffic movement closed at Chilla border, motorists going to and from Noida were diverted from Crown Plaza Chowk and Akshardham. Commuters were asked to altogether avoid Mukarba Chowk, Outer Ring Road, GT Karnal Road and NH44, despite which long snarls formed at the points from where traffic was being diverted. Tikri and Jharoda Borders continued to remain shut on both sides for traffic movement. Jhatikara border let through two-wheelers, while people crossed into Haryana from Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH8, Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. Badusarai Border was open only for light motor vehicles and two-wheelers. Roads to Delhi were generally affected after farmers affiliated to Bharatiya Kisan Union-Bhanu were stopped by police barricades at the Jewar and Mathura toll points and near the Uttar Pradesh-Palwal border and in retaliation, protesters at Chilla border closed one carriageway of Noida-Delhi Link Road. “Our brothers are being stopped at the UP border. We had vacated a carriageway in good faith, but police have stopped our supporters from reaching here,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president, BKU-Bhanu. The cops, in turn, alleged that the agitators were “misbehaving”. Commuters heading to Noida from Delhi via Chilla border were, therefore, caught by surprise and had to return or use alternative routes. Around 11.30 am, Delhi Traffic Police tweeted that both carriageways near Chilla border were shut and traffic had been diverted from Crown Plaza Chowk and Akshardham. Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East), accused the farmers of insisting they would go to Parliament, Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar. “We tried to make them understand that one carriageway should be opened because patients going to hospitals like Max Patparganj and AIIMS use the route. So far, however, we haven’t received any positive response to our request,” he said. (With inputs from Shikha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/logjam-closure-of-2-more-nhs-adds-to-traffic-trauma/articleshow/79587705.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 6, 2020||India||People have the right to demonstrate peacefully, authorities should let them do so: UN||United Nations: People have a right to demonstrate peacefully and authorities need to let them do so, Stephane Dujarric, spokesperson for UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, has said. He was responding to a question on the farmers protest in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/people-have-the-right-to-demonstrate-peacefully-authorities-should-let-them-do-so-un/articleshow/79587714.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Juice shop employee ends life||Vadodara: A 28-year-old man hanged himself to death at the juice shop near Sangam crossroads, where he worked, on Saturday morning. The deceased was identified as Ramesh Damor, a native of Dahod. For the past two months, the owner of the shop had allowed him to live at the shop itself. On Saturday morning, Damor’s employer found his body when he opened the shop. Police said that Damor had left a suicide note which he hanged on his neck with a wire. “Prima facie it seems that he was not happy with his wife as he has addressed the suicide note to her. However, more details will be known after we question the family members,” said a police official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/juice-shop-employee-ends-life/articleshow/79585400.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Good sleep, not popping pills, aids immunity: Bengaluru doctors||BENGALURU: Worries about a second wave of infections are driving up consumption of immunity boosters and pills, but doctors say a healthy diet and a good night’s sleep are the only effective methods against disease in general. Experts involved in Covid-19 testing and treatment have repeatedly said that there is no scientific study which shows popular products improving immunity. “Sleeping well is the only proven immunity booster. Anything else is sheer marketing,” said Dr V Ravi, former head of neurovirology at Nimhans. He recommends vitamins in the natural form. “Food supplements help build immunity. Vitamin D in the form of sunlight; B12 in meat, fish and eggs; and zinc in vegetables are good. Exercise and yoga also have a profound influence on psycho-neuro immunology. Rest, products claiming to boost immunity, is industry-driven marketing. I suggest having a healthy lifestyle, getting quality sleep,” Dr Ravi said. Doctors say properly wearing a mask, washing hands frequently and avoiding crowds (outdoors and indoors) are the most effective precautions against Covid-19. Dr Carolin Elizabeth George, the head of community health and research division at Bangalore Baptist Hospital, told STOI that it was a human tendency to believe in magic. “But there is no magic pill for immunity. After popping immunity boosters, many develop a false sense of security that they are safe from Covid-19. There is no scientific proof to say that a certain medicine helps in boosting immunity in the context of Covid-19. People should be careful while using or advocating any drug labelled as an immunity booster,” Dr George said. On the benefits of good rest, she explained that the body’s repair mechanism gets cracking when you sleep. “The cells in the body switch to minimum function, so they can recharge for the next round of action. Everyone needs that, apart from a balanced diet and daily exercise,” she added. While multivitamin tablets and B-complex drugs are useful in maintaining general health, they are not known to offer any special protection from Covid-19, according to Dr George. Pulmonologist Dr Satyanarayana Mysore also said that immunity boosters were nothing but a myth. “Immunity is one of the most abused terms in the ongoing pandemic. Good immunity helps in slowing the virus in the initial stage. But a greater degree of immunity or erratic behaviour of the immune system can put people in trouble later,” he said. Dr Mysore cited a study conducted during the 2009 outbreak of H1N1 virus in Mexico. “Young, gym-going athletes had greater mortality than older patients. The study said that younger people with good immunity had higher cytokine storms [excessive immune response] than the older population,” Dr Mysore added. The ideal duration of shuteye depends on age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/good-sleep-not-popping-pills-aids-immunity-bengaluru-doctors/articleshow/79587716.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 6, 2020||India||Industry supports DBT for fertiliser, seeks duty reduction||NEW DELHI: The fertiliser industry has backed the proposal of direct cash transfer to farmers to buy fertilisers while urging the government to reduce import duty on raw materials for nonurea fertilisers in the next Union Budget to encourage domestic production. Responding to a query on the government’s proposal for direct benefit transfer (DBT) to farmers on account of fertiliser subsidy, the director general of Fertiliser Association of India, Satish Chander, said they are on the same page on this issue. “The government has held several discussions with the industry. We are for DBT for fertiliser subsidy and it should be linked to the buying of fertiliser only. The fertiliser basket should be increased for the farmers to make the choice,” he said. Chander said there have been rounds of brainstorming sessions with the industry and DBT in this sector is very much feasible. He said now the government has a good database to identify the farmers. Currently, the government pays the subsidy amount to the companies. FAI has also demanded that the government take steps to encourage domestic production of fertilisers as a part of the ‘Atmanirbhar’ scheme. He said the customs duty is rendering domestic fertiliser manufacturing uncompetitive vis-à-vis imports. The association has demanded the government exempt raw materials and intermediates from customs duty, or levy of only a nominal 1% duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/industry-supports-dbt-for-fertiliser-seeks-duty-reduction/articleshow/79587720.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Clerical error turns 100 quintals into 11, Bastar farmer kills self||RAIPUR: A 45-year-old farmer has killed himself in Kondagaon district in Bastar division after a clerical error put his paddy procurement limit at 11 quintals instead of the 100 quintals he had hoped for. Unable to pay off loans, he hanged himself. A patwari has been suspended for making the wrong data entry and a tehsildar showcaused. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has ordered verification and update of all farmer records. The victim, Dhaniram Markam, had 6 acres land in Baderajpur, about 290km from Raipur. After the state government began procuring paddy on December 1, he hoped to sell 100 quintals at MSP in the cooperative society, and sent his cousin to get a token. The cousin came back with a token for just 11 quintals. Markam was shocked when told that the records — both in the register and on computer — showed him owning 0.79 acres, say officials. In a district where literacy rate is just over 57%, ‘computer records’ are cast in stone, as they were. The farmer’s family says he had loans of Rs 61,000 from traders and co-operative societies, and had hoped to repay it from his paddy proceeds. The death of his son four years ago had left him shattered, and the 11-quintal shock proved too much to bear, they said. On December 2, he hanged himself. The district administration began investigating the suicide and found that a patwari’s negligence had led to a wrong entry under Markam’s name. He was immediately suspended and the tehsildar issued a showcause notice. Records are being verified and a list of erroneous entries being draw up so that they can be corrected, say officials. Former CM Raman Singh blamed the state government’s “misrule and poor policies” for the death of the farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/clerical-error-turns-100-quintals-into-11-bastar-farmer-kills-self/articleshow/79587744.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Registration of Christian marriages halted since previous officer retired in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The registration of Christian marriages in Mumbai has come to a halt since the previous marriage officer retired around July. Newly-wed couples who wish to get their marriage certificates stamped by state government authorities are forced to travel to Pune to do so amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Activists Godfrey Pimenta and Nicholas Almeida of Watchdog Foundation have urged the state government to appoint a new officer in Mumbai at the earliest. Advocate Vivian D'Souza, Rita D'Sa and Tulip Miranda, president of Bombay East Indian Association, have co-signed it. Pimenta said, "Mumbai has a Catholic population of 10 lakh, and every year, thousands get married in the 100-plus Catholic churches in Mumbai alone. The post of marriage officer is vacant since the previous incumbent Ashish Lopez retired." Pimenta explained the procedure saying, "Couples are required to procure their marriage certificate from the local church where nuptials were solemnised. The certificate is then attested by the chancellor attached to Archbishop House in Colaba, and subsequently by a notary public. Later, it is to be stamped by the state home department and finally by the marriage officer whose office is in Mantralaya." In the absence of the Mumbai appointee, couples have to travel to Pune to get attestation done through the Commissioner of Social Welfare. Almeida said, "This is a matter of concern since Pune has a high number of Covid-19 cases... The government should immediately fill the vacancy in Mumbai." The archdiocese of Bombay expressed concern as well. Spokesman Fr Nigel Barrett said, "The situation of having no registrar of Christian marriages is indeed true. It has been communicated to the government... We are hopeful it will be addressed soon." Chief secretary of the state government directed the matter to the principal secretary of social justice department. A senior official there told TOI that the subject does not fall within its purview.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/registration-of-christian-marriages-halted-since-previous-officer-retired-in-mumbai/articleshow/79587749.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 6, 2020||Mangaluru||Two held for writing pro-terror graffiti in Mangaluru||MANGALURU: Police have arrested two youths — one of them an engineering student — for allegedly writing pro-terror graffiti on buildings here. Police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said the duo appeared to be attention-seekers but investigations are on into their antecedents. The messages, that cropped up in the last week of November, sent authorities into a tizzy and created fear among residents. The arrested duo have been identified as Mohammed Shariq, 22, and Mazz Muneer Ahmed 21. Ahmed is a third-year engineering student and has been working with an online food delivery company for the past one-and-a-half months. Shariq, a BCom graduate, works as a salesperson at a cloth store owned by his father. Both hail from Thirthahalli and know each other. “Various teams followed the accused over a period of time after the case was registered. Preliminary investigation revealed that the accused had first written graffiti on a dilapidated wall under Mangaluru North police station limits, which they felt was not noticed by anybody,” Vikash said. “After a couple of weeks, they chose a prominent location where everyone could see their message. They planned and conspired the whole move together. Investigations will reveal their background and if they have any links to any such organisation.” The messages scribbled had expressed support to Lashkar-e-Taiba and Taliban. The first graffiti — where they wrote Urdu words in English — came to light on November 27. Several officers and teams led by DCP (crime and traffic) Vinay A Gaonkar, DCP (law and order) Hariram Shankar and ACPs, among others, worked on the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/two-held-for-writing-pro-terror-graffiti-in-mangaluru/articleshow/79587747.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: FYJC cutoffs high in popular colleges||MUMBAI: In the second merit list announced on Saturday, 76,231 students were allotted first-year junior college (FYJC) seats in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and cutoffs at sought-after colleges continued to be high around 90%, keeping them out of reach for many. For the second round of admission, the education department had received 1.6 lakh applications and 76,231 students were allotted seats. Of these, 20,371 were allotted a seat in the college they had listed as their first preference. It would be mandatory for these students to confirm their admission. The list-announced after a three-month gap-saw cutoffs only marginally dip or even rise in some colleges. For instance, at St Xavier's College, Fort, one of the most popular choice for the arts stream, the cutoff of 94.6% remained unchanged from the first merit list. Only eight seats were up for grabs in this round. At Jai Hind College, Churchgate, the arts stream cutoff, in fact, rose from 92.6% in the first list to 92.8% in the second. The commerce cutoff at the college saw an increase too. "Ahead of each merit list, since students can change the choice of colleges, the preference order changes and hence the cutoffs could be higher than the previous list," said an official from the education department. After admissions resumed on November 26, students were given until December 1 to fill out admission forms and alter their college choices. Cutoffs in the science stream dipped in most colleges but only marginally. This, despite the fact that 15,968 Maratha quota seats were added to the general category. "We had only a handful of seats vacant in the Maratha quota as well, so it did not make a big difference in the general category. The cutoffs have only marginally dipped in the arts and science streams and remained the same for commerce. We, though, have some seats in the other quotas which, if vacant after the third round, will be available for students from the open category," said Vidyadhar Joshi, vice-principal, V G Vaze College, Mulund. Students have until December 9 to confirm their admissions in this round. The second merit list was put on hold for nearly three months after the Supreme Court's interim order staying the Maratha quota for this academic year. It was only on November 24 that the government decided to implement the order and continue admissions without the quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-fyjc-cutoffs-high-in-popular-colleges/articleshow/79587752.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
December 6, 2020||India||Amarinder reciting BJP’s script: Sukhbir Badal||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday slammed Punjab CM Amarinder Singh over his recent meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, and accused him of “reciting the BJP’s script” for allegedly linking farmers’ agitation to national security. Amarinder has “surrendered” to the BJP after he was told to “choose between facing the Enforcement Directorate and betraying the farmers”, Badal alleged. Singh had made an appeal to find an early resolution to the impasse over the farm laws, saying the agitation was affecting Punjab’s economy and the nation’s security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amarinder-reciting-bjps-script-sukhbir-badal/articleshow/79587750.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||AP charts course to execute ban on sub-quality helmets||VIJAYAWADA: With the Union ministry of road transport and highways banning non-ISI helmets in the country, Andhra Pradesh police and transport officials have an immense task at hand enforcing the notification. On November 26, the Centre issued a gazette notification banning manufacture, sale and use of helmets that do not comply with BIS (Bureau of Indian Standard) safety standard. Vijayawada traffic police acknowledge that sub-standard helmets have flooded the market in recent years. While showrooms predominantly sell ISI-certified helmets, roadside shops often sell now-banned sub-standard ones. Explaining why non-standard helmets have flooded the market, Ganapathi Rao, who runs a helmet business, said that private companies in Pune, where most helmets are produced, are capable of producing only 3,000–4,000 helmets for the entire country daily. However, retailers say that demand for helmets in AP alone surpasses 2,000 units per day. “Out of which, dealers in Maharashtra and other states where the helmet rule is implemented strictly procure most of it. Hence, many retailers are forced to sell sub-standard helmets to meet the immediate requirement,” Rao told TOI. Another reason why substandard helmets are bought is because of their wide availability. Many of these helmets either don’t have an ISI mark or have a fake ISI seal. Experts point out that such helmets are even sold on e-commerce portals. People often choose stylish helmets over those that provide adequate safety. Meanwhile, road safety activists in Andhra Pradesh have welcomed the Centre’s move and hope that it does not remain only on paper.  “Enforcing the helmet rule and bringing helmets under quality control is the most effective approach in reducing two-wheeler fatalities in Andhra Pradesh. Two-wheeler fatalities account for more than 60 per cent of overall road mishaps in state,” said M Vasu, founder of VHEEDU — a Vijayawada-based road safety NGO. In Andhra Pradesh, the state police have tried different means to enforce the helmet rule such as: ‘No helmet, no petrol’, suspension of driver’s license and other awareness campaigns. However, the state still has a long way to go in universal helmet use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-charts-course-to-execute-ban-on-sub-quality-helmets/articleshow/79584946.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 630 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 630 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,71,305. The toll increased to 7,024 as four more patients succumbed to the disease. Of the four deaths registered on Saturday, two are from Krishna and one each from Chittoor and Vizianagaram. As many as 882 patients were declared cured on Saturday and there are currently 6,166 active cases with 8,58,115 cumulative recoveries and 7,024 deaths. Krishna reported 97 new infections on Saturday, followed by West Godavari (90), Chittoor (89), and Guntur (85). Kurnool reported only five cases. The active cases are less than 200 in five districts, including Anantapur, Kadapa, Kurnool, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Other than Krishna and Guntur, all other districts achieved at least 98 percent recovery rate. Currently, Vizianagaram is the only district to have touched 99 percent recovery rate. The north coastal Andhra Pradesh district, which recorded the lowest cases among all districts, also witnessed the lowest fatalities of 237. Chittoor contributed the highest number of deaths (832) to the table. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 1.03 crore Covid-19 tests, including 57,132 people tested for the virus on Saturday. The overall case positivity rate stood at 8.4%, while it was an average 2.2% in November. The positivity rate has come down to 1% range in the last few days. The overall mortality rate is 0.8%. The state has been conducting more RT-PCR tests than the rapid antigen tests for the last few weeks. For instance, of the 57,132 tests conducted on Saturday, 43,074 tests were conducted using RT-PCR, while the remaining were done with antigen kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-630-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/79584950.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vijayawada||VMC commissioner suspends officials for keeping pension payments on hold||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has initiated action against discrepancies and corruption in its accounts department. Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh suspended the manager, accounts wing and also shifted additional commissioner to the municipal administration and urban development department for ignoring payments of pensioners, amounting to Rs 60 crore, over the past six years. Upon receiving a number of complaints from pensioners about delay in payments, the VMC chief ordered an internal enquiry. Officials found that pension files of around 385 health wing pensioners have been pending for years and they had not received their dues under the 010 bill. However, payment of bills to various contractors was given top priority. Pensioners alleged that officials were ignoring payments due to them for the sake of benefitting contractors. The finance department, however, said it paid bills to contractors to facilitate ongoing development works in city. Taking the complaints and the detailed enquiry report into consideration, VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh passed orders suspending officials of concerned departments. “Every official of VMC should do their duties with utmost dedication. Despite repeated instructions and meetings, these officials failed to pay arrears of pensioners. We will not tolerate such negligence in work. This is just the beginning and we will take firm action against employees who are neglecting their work and encouraging corrupt practices,” Prasanna Venkatesh said. Meanwhile, the commissioner’s decision to suspend officials has created a flutter in various departments of the civic body. The health, accounts and town planning departments, it was learnt, have started to clear old bills as a matter of top priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmc-commissioner-suspends-officials-for-keeping-pension-payments-on-hold/articleshow/79584954.cms||Venu Lanka
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||15 injured in bus-lorry collision||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over 15 passengers of a private travels bus travelling from Srikakulam to Visakhapatnam were injured after a lorry hit the bus on National Highway (NH)-16 near Madhurawada in Vizag city early on Saturday. The bus turned over with the impact of the collision. No casualties were reported. All the injured were shifted to a hospital. According to police, the bus and the lorry were travelling in the same direction. The lorry hit the bus after the bus driver suddenly applied the brakes. The lorry driver could not control the vehicle and the lorry skidded on to the other side of the National Highway with the impact of the accident while the bus turned over on the road. Police said that the driver and a passenger were seriously injured and received fractures while others sustained minor injuries.— Siva G||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/15-injured-in-bus-lorry-collision/articleshow/79584963.cms||Siva G
December 6, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam doctors to boycott elective OPs on December 11||VISAKHAPATNAM: Doctors in the city have said they will continue their protest against the Centre’s proposed move to legitimise ‘mixopathy’, or permit Ayurvedic practitioners undertake surgeries. They now plan to intensify their stir and undertake a public demonstration on Tuesday and boycott non-essential non-Covid services on Friday, December 11. Allopathy doctors have demanded the withdrawal of the Central Council for Indian Medicine’s (CCIM—under the Union ministry of Ayush) order allowing Ayush doctors to perform surgeries and the four committees formed by the Niti Aayog integrating all systems of medicine. As per the decisions of the national and state presidents and secretaries of IMA, on December 8, a group of 20 participants will publicly demonstrate adhering to Covid-19 protocols in one or more designated areas between 12 noon and 2 pm. The decision has been conveyed to the local branch presidents and secretaries. Doctors, wearing white aprons and sporting stethoscopes, will carry placards with slogans against ‘mixopathy’. On December 11, doctors will withdraw all non-essential elective surgeries and outpatient services between 6 am and 6 pm. However, emergency services including casualty, labour rooms and emergency surgeries will function. Inpatient services including ICUs and critical care will also function. “Recent policy tilt as evidenced in the medical pluralism advocated by the National Education Policy-2020 and the four committees of Niti Aayog for officially integrating the systems of medicine in medical education, practice, public health and research ostensibly under a one nation, one system policy will ring the death knell for the modern medicine system as a whole,” said Dr P A Ramani, chairperson, IMA WDW AP state and president of IMA, Visakhapatnam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-docs-to-boycott-elective-ops-on-dec-11/articleshow/79584980.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 6, 2020||World||China conducted tests to develop ‘super soldiers’: US intel chief||WASHINGTON: US intelligence has revealed that China conducted “human testing” on members of PLA in hope of developing soldiers with “biologically enhanced capabilities,” NBC reported, citing a top American intelligence official. John Ratcliffe, director of national intelligence, included the claim in a Wall Street Journal op-ed. “There are no ethical boundaries to Beijing’s pursuit of power,” he wrote. “The People’s Republic of China poses the greatest threat to America today, and the greatest threat to democracy and freedom worldwide since World War II,” he wrote. “The intelligence is clear: Beijing intends to dominate the US and the rest of the planet economically, militarily and technologically,” he said. His office and CIA did not respond to his claims. Last year, two American scholars in a paper examining China’s ambitions to apply biotechnology to battlefield, included that Beijing was interested in using gene-editing technology to enhance human — and perhaps soldier — performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/china-conducted-tests-to-develop-super-soldiers-us-intel-chief/articleshow/79587778.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Firefighter dies of suffocation in blaze at Taloja chemical unit||NAVI MUMBAI: Balu Deshmukh, a 32-year-old fireman from Ambernath, died due to suffocation after a blaze broke out at Mody Chem-Pharma factory in Taloja MIDC area late on Friday. Taloja MIDC fire officer Deepak Dorugade and fire leader Vijay Bait were also affected by the smoke and gas leakage following the blaze and were rushed to a private hospital in Taloja, where they were provided treatment and discharged. Taloja MIDC fire officer Deepak Dorugade said, "When we reached the ground-plus-one chemical unit, it was completely engulfed in the blaze and the workers were evacuated. As the fire was raging, we summoned fire tenders from Ambernath, Cidco's Kharghar fire station and Rabale MIDC. At the factory, there were nine tunnels, and each contained around 900kg of chlorine. Even if one tunnel had exploded in the fire, more than 100 persons would have got injured and this would have resulted in several fatalities. Hence, to prevent the chlorine tunnels from blasting, we used breathing apparatus kits and started firefighting by standing outside the company's compound." Dorugade said during the operation, Deshmukh felt dizzy and collapsed. They sprinkled water on his face and he gained consciousness and even walked a little. Soon, though, he was again found unconscious. "Deshmukh might have inhaled the toxic gas and died due to suffocation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-firefighter-dies-of-suffocation-in-blaze-at-taloja-chemical-unit/articleshow/79587780.cms||George Mendonca
December 6, 2020||India||As government goes slow, OBCs get restive||NEW DELHI: As the Centre continues to overshoot the deadline for the periodic increase in the income ceiling for the OBC “creamy layer”, uncertainty is only growing over when will the long-pending proposal see the light of the day — the reason being that the government doesn’t plan to delink the income hike from the larger proposal to revise the criteria for “creamy layer”, which has triggered a controversy resulting in the hold-up. As is done every three years, the social justice ministry has proposed to hike from Rs 8 lakh to Rs 12 lakh the ceiling for “creamy layer” — the economically better off among the backwards who are ineligible for 27% Mandal reservations. The due date is already past by three months as the last revision was cleared by the Cabinet on August 23, 2017. The move is stuck because the government has clubbed the routine hike with the plan to revise the criteria for “creamy layer”, both placed in the same Cabinet note floated in February. While it was expected to sail through, roadblocks came up because the second point on the revision of criteria drew objections from the National Commission for Backward Classes, the watchdog of OBC interests. The ministry has proposed to include “salary” of an OBC household in its “gross annual income” — cut-off for creamy layer. This is contrary to the 1993 Office Memorandum which says that “salary” and “agriculture income” are not part of income to determine “creamy layer”. If the move goes through, it will lower the bar to identify an OBC as “creamy layer” and thereby make many ineligible for job and education quotas. While the issue of inclusion of salary in gross income is holding up the routine hike in income bar, a top source told TOI, “We are not separating the two points. It is a package deal. Let us see when it it cleared.” This has heightened the uncertainty over when the income bar will be revised, which is keenly awaited by the Mandal classes every three years as it provides greater latitude to the backwards to qualify for quotas. While the time-line has also been overshot in the past, the NCBC had earlier taken serious note of the lapse and insisted that the 3-year periodicity be strictly adhered to. Many had speculated that the BJP brass chose to put the issue on the back burner because of Bihar polls where OBC issues have a strong resonance with the electorate. But now that the polls are over, the continuing indecision is triggering unrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-government-goes-slow-obcs-get-restive/articleshow/79587785.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||At 18.4C, Mumbai sees season's lowest minimum temperature||MUMBAI: The city's minimum temperature dipped further to 18.4C on Saturday, the lowest for the city this season. The maximum temperature of 35.5C at Santacruz observatory was the highest December temperature recorded in five years. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) Santacruz observatory on Friday recorded a minimum temperature of 19C, and Colaba 21.4C. KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD said, "Mumbai started with 18.4C minimum temperature in the early morning hours but the day was warmer. There has been a large variation between day and night temperatures in the last two or three days." Saturday's maximum temperature was the highest December temperature since 2016 at 36.2C. The highest December temperature ever recorded was 39.8C in 1987. Owing to the dip in minimum temperatures, the city's Air Quality Index (AQI) remained in the moderate category on Friday. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) the overall AQI for Mumbai was 190, as opposed to 176 on Friday. The AQI is forecast to be 183 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-18-4c-mumbai-sees-seasons-lowest-minimum-temperature/articleshow/79587786.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress minister warns Sharad Pawar against criticising Rahul Gandhi||MUMBAI: Congress leader and Maharashtra's women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur on Saturday hit out at NCP president Sharad Pawar, without naming him, for saying that Rahul Gandhi lacked consistency. "Stop commenting on the Congress leadership if you want a stable government," she said. NCP president Sharad Pawar, the architect of the three-party coalition that is in power in Maharashtra, had chosen the first anniversary of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government at the end of November to criticise Rahul Gandhi. In an interview to Lokmat, when asked if India was ready to be led by Rahul, Pawar had said, "There appears to be lack of consistency (in Rahul), and it will have to be seen if there is acceptance within the party organisation." However, he had added that the rank and file of the Congress still had faith in the Nehru-Gandhi family. While most of the cabinet members in the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government in Maharashtra maintained silence on the remarks, Thakur tweeted, "Being a working president of the MPCC, I must appeal to colleagues in Mavikasaghadi, if you want a stable government in Maharashtra, then stop commenting on leadership of Congress. Everyone should follow the basic rules of coalition, adhere to the coalition Dharma." Thakur, who has been elected to the legislative assembly from Teosa constituency in Amravati district for a third consecutive term, is considered a member of the Rahul brigade within the Congress. She further said that the Congress leadership was very strong and stable, and the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state after the 2019 assembly elections was the result of a strong belief in democratic values. "In the recent past, I have read articles and interviews of prominent leaders associated with the MVA, and I feel that for providing a stable government, all of us must adhere to coalition Dharma," she noted. BJP legislator Ram Kadam too on Saturday launched a frontal attack against Sharad Pawar, saying, "Pawar has raised a question mark over the leadership of Rahul Gandhi, saying he lacks consistency. On the one hand, he has questioned Rahul Gandhi's leadership, and on the other, the NCP is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The NCP is in government in the state with the support of Congress and Shiv Sena," Kadam said. Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said that the circumstances in which the NCP president made the statement about Rahul Gandhi would have to be seen. "Rahul Gandhi is the most consistent politician who has taken on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and the Modi government on all fronts," Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-congress-minister-warns-sharad-pawar-against-criticising-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/79587788.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
December 6, 2020||India||Big boost for desi makers of automatic fare collection gates||NEW DELHI: Indian manufacturers of automatic fare collection (AFC) gates will not need to go to any other country for certification of the contactless system, which can be installed at metro stations and in buses for fare collection through National Common Mobility Card (NCMC) or debit and credit cards. In a tweet, housing and urban affairs secretary D S Mishra said Bengaluru-based Fime India has got the EMVCo accreditation for AFC gates. EVMCo is the global technical body that facilitates global interoperability of secure payment transactions by managing and evolving the EVM specifications. Mishra said it took oneand-a-half years to get the “test bench and qualifications”. This authorisation to an India-based company will come as a big boost for AFC manufacturers as they can now apply for approval in the country. Fime has its headquarters in France. “Bharat Electronics Ltd is developing a large number of AFC manufacturers in the SME sector. This facility of getting accreditation from Fime India will push the new products, with ease of accreditation in India, in the market. After catering to our local demand, we’ll become exporters of this product in a few years,” Mishra told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-boost-for-desi-makers-of-automatic-fare-collection-gates/articleshow/79587789.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Farmers’ stir: Akali team meets TMC leaders for joint strategy||Kolkata: A five-member Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) delegation led by party spokesperson and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra came down to Trinamool Bhavan in Kolkata on Saturday to strategize the future course of the farmers’ agitation. It came a day after CM Mamata Banerjee spoke with the protesting farmers and sent TMC’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien to the stir site at the Delhi-Haryana border in support of the cause. Leaders of both parties decided to meet leaders of other regional parties in a week or two before making a joint march to Rashtrapati Bhavan or going for a joint showdown. “We want the laws repealed. Our party chief has asked Trinamool workers to hold agitations in each block. We have also given moral support to the all-India bandh call on December 8. In Bengal, the Trinamool Kishan Morcha will launch a dharna in front of the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road on December 8. Mamata Banerjee has always upheld the farmers’ cause as she did in Singur and Nandigram,” said TMC’s Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay. He and O’Brien took part in the talks with the SAD delegation. Bandyopadhyay held that the three farm bills were tabled in Parliament “all on a sudden”. “The Prime Minister could have called an all-party meeting before placing such crucial bills affecting thousands of farmers. The Centre says minimum support price is here to stay, but there is no such guarantee in the law. What’s more is one law takes out food items, including cereals, potatoes and onions, out of the list of essential commodities,” he added. Chandumajra said the issue had become a common issue for farmers, traders and transporters. “Even the Prime Minister of Canada has reacted to this. Our leader Parkash Singh Badal had a talk with Didi. The Centre has intruded into the state’s domain and has framed laws on a subject that happens to be on the state list. The law says that states can’t tax farm produce. We will work out a joint action plan,” he said. According to TMC leaders, Banerjee is looking at a national-level-handholding against the Narendra Modi government when BJP is focussed on Bengal ahead of the assembly polls. Trinamool, while stepping up the ante against BJP, is also aiming to snatch from the Left the space for gaining back a toehold in Bengal politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/farmers-stir-akali-team-meets-tmc-leaders-for-joint-strategy/articleshow/79586797.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Eastern Command to host B’desh team for Vijay Diwas||Kolkata: On this day in 1971, battles raged across what is now Bangladesh as Mukti Joddhas and Indian troops progressed towards Dhaka. Ten days later, history was created, giving birth to a new nation and the surrender of nearly 93,000 Pakistani troops to the Indian Army. Had things gone according to plan, the 49th anniversary of the 1971 War would have been celebrated in Kolkata. But the pandemic played spoilsport. “Vijay Diwas, that is celebrated on December 16 every year to commemorate capitulation by the Pakistani forces, is a historic event. This was a war where people’s aspirations were supported by military force. The credit must be shared equally between the people of Bangladesh and the Indian armed forces. This was a joint effort by all three services of India, the Mukti Bahini and the people of Bangladesh. The Mukti Bahini effectively pinned down Pakistani forces before they were taken care of by our troops,” Major General V Sreehari, MGGS, EC, said on Saturday. While several restrictions have been imposed at the EC headquarters of Fort William due to the pandemic, 30 Mukti Joddhas, their spouses and some serving military officers from Bangladesh will be hosted in Kolkata by the Army for over three days till Vijay Diwas on December 16. “We are thankful that the Indian Army and Eastern Command considers us as well during the celebrations. As on previous years, there will be a delegation from Bangladesh to Kolkata. India provided morale and diplomatic support as well as material help during our war of independence. I am proud to be a part of Bangladesh’s first foreign mission (in Kolkata). I offer my tributes to all freedom fighters and the 1,661 Indian Army personnel who were martyred for the cause. It was only because of the wholehearted support by India that we got our independence in just nine months,” said Toufique Hasan, deputy high commissioner of Bangladesh in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eastern-command-to-host-bdesh-team-for-vijay-diwas/articleshow/79586916.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||State minister goes public with grouse||Kolkata: State forest minister Rajib Banerjee, who led the Trinamool Congress rally in Haldia the other day, struck a discordant note with his views on Saturday, sending out signals that he was possibly not happy with the ways of the party leadership. “The corrupt in the party are making it to the frontline because they take to flattery. They thwart efforts of people who want to do some good work,” Rajib said to a private television channel, dropping broad hints how the ‘Suvendu phenomenon’ might be catching up within the Trinamool even though he didn’t indicate he was keen on quitting yet. Firhad Hakim reacted soon and described Rajib as the party’s “prominent second-generation leader”. The state urban development minister said: “He is our forest minister and an upcoming leader. He is a good boy and one among our prominent second-generation leaders.” Rajib Banerjee is not alone in his seeming dissent. Trinamool minister Sadhan Pande, former minister Madan Mitra, party’s Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Dutta, Shibpur (Howrah) MLA Jatu Lahiri and Bally (Howrah) MLA Baishali Dalmiya have all spoken out from time to time. Former deputy mayor of Kolkata Municipal Corporation Atin Ghosh too held that “the old guard” in the party was being sidelined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-minister-goes-public-with-grouse/articleshow/79586838.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Corona safety hit for a 6 in Gandhinagar: 200 hold bike rally for cricket win||AHMEDABAD: At a time when gatherings are heavily restricted to halt the Covid spread, 200 youths of a Gandhinagar village have been booked for holding a bike rally to celebrate the victory in a cricket tournament. The youths of Chala village were rejoicing in their team’s triumph in a night-match tournament held on Friday at Giyod village. Their rally included a DJ. The video of the rally went viral the same night. Gandhinagar Police took cognizance of the video and initiated action. DSP M K Rana of Gandhinagar said three persons of Chala village have been identified from the video: Harshil Patel, Jignesh Patel, and Keval Chaudhary. The three have been held. “About 200 people on approximately 70 bikes took part in the rally,” Rana said. “All have been booked for violating relevant notifications. The Epidemic Act has been invoked as well.” According to police, for the past few days, the tournament was being held at Giyod village. “We are searching for the remaining accused by identifying them in the video,” Rana said. “We are also searching for the tournament organizers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-safety-hit-for-a-6-200-hold-bike-rally-for-cricket-win/articleshow/79585747.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Satyajit jacket designs for Soumitra’s poem collections to see new light of day||Kolkata: Legends Soumitra Chatterjee and Satyajit Ray shared a connection that went far beyond that of an actor and mentor: the two bonded over literature, art, cinema, theatre, music and more. Over the four decades of their association, Ray had designed the covers of four anthologies of poems and a play penned by Chatterjee. While none of these collections are now in print, the cover designs have been preserved by the filmmaker’s son, Sandip Ray, who has decided to publish these rare artworks along with two photos of the actor clicked by the master director himself as a tribute to Chatterjee. The covers for the play ‘Rajkumar’ and poetry anthologies ‘Jolopropater Dhaare Darabo Bowle’, ‘Shobdora Amar Bagane’, ‘Pore Ache Chandaner Cheeta’ and ‘Byektigowto Nakshatramala’ were part of his father’s larger experiment with calligraphy, said Sandip. Satyajit Ray’s cover for one of Soumitra Chatterjee’s plays “Baba had done numerous jacket designs. He also did the cover for ‘Ekkhon’, the literary magazine edited by Soumitrakaku. For this, he experimented with the three Bengali letters in the word ‘Ekkhon’. He did the same experiment while designing Soumitrakaku’s book covers too,” he said. These book covers, along with Chatterjee’s photos, his drawings and letters will be published in a limited edition of the literary magazine ‘Bichitrapatra’, of which Sandip is the chief adviser, on December 14. Significantly, the tribute will be published in the form of a ‘kheror khata’ — the red notebooks synonymous with Satyajit Ray that contained the maestro’s jottings, all his film manuscripts, character sketches and set designs. “In fact, Soumitrakaku himself used ‘kheror khata’ for writing. I think that was baba’s influence. I have personally seen one or two of them. Apart from poetry and plays, these also had costume sketches for his plays. I really liked it when Souradip (Bandyopadhyay) and Soumyakanti (Dutta) came up with this novel idea of using the ‘kheror khata’ format to pay this tribute to Soumitrakaku,” said Sandip. ‘ Bandyopadhyay and Dutta along with Ayan Chatterjee are associated with the magazines ‘Bichitrapatra’ and ‘Sandesh. Dutta said it was a conscious decision to follow the ‘kheror khata’ format. “Souradipda, Ayan and I decided to use the string-tied version of ‘kheror khata’ and not the hardbound one that was used by Satyajit Ray,” he said. Besides his ‘kheror khata’ jottings, Chatterjee also kept notes on screenplays. “If these screenplays have survived, we will definitely get the notes. During the making of ‘Ashani Sanket’, he used to maintain a diary. It included his thoughts on the making and the character of Gangacharan. I had asked him about this diary and had even suggested that it be published as a book. Unfortunately, he had told me that it was gone,” Sandip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/satyajit-jacket-designs-for-soumitras-poem-collections-to-see-new-light-of-day/articleshow/79587337.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||TMC cracks Midnapore whip, BJP ups the ante||KOLKATA: Trinamool has started cracking the whip on “black sheep” involved in “anti-party” activities in East Midnapore a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee passed the directive to TMC district president Sisir Adhikari in an organisation meet on Friday. TMC’s Nandigram I president Meghnad Pal and Bhagabanpur II president Manab Barua were removed from party posts for different reasons. While the “anti-party” charge was slapped on Suvendu Adhikari loyalist Pal, Barua was asked to step down for “inactivity,” Trinamool Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri said. Sisir conveyed the decision to Pal although Suvendu didn’t face the flak. “I asked Sisir Adhikari why I was being removed from the post. Have I done any anti-party activity? Is it an offence to have a cordial relation with Suvendu Adhikari? I joined his rallies because he is the party leader and was a minister till recently. I didn’t get any satisfactory reply. This is the prize I got after fighting the Left for 15 years. I was attacked quite a few times but didn’t leave Trinamool,” Pal said after hearing Swadesh Das would take over as the new Nandigram I president. Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh added fuel to the goings-on by sending a warm welcome to Suvendu in BJP. “Suvendu-babu has to remain as an employee in Trinamool. He can become a leader if he joins BJP,” Ghosh said. Later, at a BJP Kishan Morcha rally on Giri’s home turf at Ramnagar, Ghosh dared the chief minister to arrest him. “Didi at one time had threatened to drag BJP leader Narendra Modi with a rope around his waist. Now, she is afraid. I am not scared. I have not taken money from anyone,” the BJP leader said, taking advantage of Suvendu’s rebellion. BJP national secretary in charge of Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, on the other hand, reached out to Barasat’s Satyanarayan Pally to distribute “Aar Noy Onyay” pamphlets in response to the government’s Duare Sarkar programme. The Trinamool-BJP battle of words took an ugly shape in Asansol’s Barabani, where one person sustained bullet injuries. “One of our party workers was shot at. He has been admitted to Durgapur hospital and is critical,” BJP district leader Lakshman Ghorui said, adding that five party workers were also injured in the clash. TMC blamed BJP, saying that four of its men were rushed to Asansol hospital. In the afternoon, BJP workers scuffled with police at Kamalgazi More on the southern fringes of Kolkata after cops put up barricades to stop a rally from heading to Sonarpur and Subhasgram. (With inputs from Suman Mandal, Mohammad Asif, Sanjib Chakraborty)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-cracks-midnapore-whip-bjp-ups-the-ante/articleshow/79586923.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||MSU syndicate polls to be held in Feb||Vadodara: The schedule for the election of the new syndicate body of M S University has been decided. The university’s current syndicate body discussed the tentative schedule for election for one representative from amongst the head of departments (HoDs) and other categories apart from schedule of election for the four seats of the P G Council, three seats of board of accounts and two seats of board of extra mural studies. The election for the one seat representing HoDs will be held on February 5 while polls for the other seats of the syndicate and that of P G Council, board of accounts and board of extra mural studies will be held on February 25. The university’s syndicate body comprises of six seats in general constituency, four in teachers category, two seats representing deans, one representing principal, one in professors category and one representing HoDs. The current syndicate body had got elected on February 27, 2018 and had taken charge on March 4, same year. The ruling saffron group had registered a clean sweep in the last syndicate elections even as the ‘sankalan samiti’ which had members of the BJP, the RSS, the ABVP and the Maharaja Sayajirao Vishvavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh, teachers’ body, had fielded its candidates in most of the categories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-syndicate-polls-to-be-held-in-feb/articleshow/79585315.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||BJP’s Baisakhi transferred from al-Ameen||Kolkata: A day after she called on Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, BJP leader Baisakhi Banerjee was on Saturday transferred from Milli al-Ameen College to Rammohan College. She termed her transfer “a punishment” for criticizing the Trinamool Con-gress government. Baisakhi, the outgoing teacher-in-charge of Milli al-Ameen, had on Friday urged chancellor Dhankhar to order a probe into a recent student agitation. She alleged the agitation was targeted at her and Sovan Chatterjee, former Kolkata mayor and minister. “There has been trouble since last June. I resigned from the post I was holding. Despite that, they are trying to make me responsible for the stalemate in the college. Now, they have transferred me. It is a punishment and I don’t accept that,” she said on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjps-baisakhi-transferred-from-al-ameen/articleshow/79586784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Men, women undress to protest construction of power sub-station||Sindri: Protest against the construction of a power sub-station in Aamtaal village under Baliapur police station of Dhanbad took an unexpected turn when the agitators fully undressed themselves before the block and police officials to register their protest on Saturday. Though a formal FIR is yet to be registered till the time going to press, police took 32 villagers, both male and female, into custody on charges of creating public nuisance. It can be mentioned here that villagers of Aamtaal are protesting against the construction of an electric sub-station for the last one year, stating that the land belongs to their forefathers. However, they have no documentary evidence to show that the land belongs to them. Baliapur circle officer Md Aslam said that the land is owned by government. “Out of a plot of 1.4 acre, we have given NOC to the electricity department for construction of the sub-station on a 4 decimal land about a year ago, but the villagers are not allowing construction. Every time the agency allotted with the work starts constructing the sub-station, the villagers disrupt the work.” On Saturday, when the officials of the electricity department and workers of the construction agency reached the spot to start work, villagers sat on a dharna on the land. Although Baliapur BDO Ratan Kumar Singh and officer in-charge of Baliapur police station G C Ghoshal tried to convince the villagers, they undressed themselves and created a scene on the spot. “Even women protestors undressed to lodge their protest,” said an official. This angered the officials who took 32 villagers in custody and sent them to a police station away from Baliapur. According to Ghoshal, construction work at the site has been started in presence of police force and police will lodge a formal case once it receives a formal complaint from the officials of the electricity department. Watch Dhanbad: Men, women undress to protest construction of power sub-station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/men-women-undress-to-protest-construction-of-power-sub-station/articleshow/79585975.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Covid caseload breaches 1.1 lakh mark, last 10,000 cases in 39 days||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded one Covid death, 196 fresh infections and 288 recoveries on Saturday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,10,186. Of these, 1,07,362, 979 have died and 1,845 are still battling the viral infection. As the state crossed the 1.1 lakh-case milestone, there was a reason for relief as the last 10,000 cases were reported in 39 days, the slowest since the first 10,000 cases were reported (129 days). The lone death reported on Friday came from state capital Ranchi, taking the body count in the capital to 202. The city also reported the highest number of new cases (80), followed by Dhanbad and Bokaro which 24 cases each. The remaining 21 districts reported less than 10 cases. As per government data, taking the recovery rate touched 97.41% while the seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.16% against the national average of 0.32%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-caseload-breaches-1-1l-mark-last-10k-cases-in-39-days/articleshow/79586004.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||CBI to grill coal scam accused Anup Maji on Monday||KOLKATA: The CBI on Saturday summoned Anup Maji, alias Lala, for interrogation in connection with the coal scam. “He has been asked to appear before the agency on Monday. He, along with others, is accused of illegal mining. They were engaged in illegal transportation of coal," said a CBI officer. According to sources, at least seven state government officials are on the radar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cbi-to-grill-coal-scam-accused-tomorrow/articleshow/79586970.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Mitra slams Centre’s ‘improper’ economic response to Covid||Kolkata: Bengal finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on Saturday came down heavily on the Centre for its economic response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Improper response” has hit the industry harder, he said at a webinar here and added, “Government expenditure in the first two quarters of this fiscal is less than that of 2019-20.” Mitra, an economist himself, pointed out that seven quarters before the pandemic, the GDP had started shrinking. “Was it because of demonetisation or an unplanned roll-out of the GST?” he asked and called for an analysis of “the granular implication” of DeMo. “Every important indicator from export to bank lending is in a negative domain now. We are perhaps heading towards depression,” he warned and reminded of the 2008 financial crisis in the US, which triggered the great recession, and the role of the US government in it. The minister also challenged the concept of “new normal” by emphasising that sectors such as manufacturing, MSME, tourism, hospitality and aviation, among others, could not optimally function on virtual platforms. “Some of these sectors have the largest employment generation capability. We need to carry out a proper analysis of what this ‘new normal’ means for them,” he said. Citing from personal experience, Mitra said major boardroom decisions in corporate houses were never taken at virtual meetings. “Only decisions on day-to-day activities and operations can be taken. I have been on the board of SAIL and ONGC, and know well how important the body language of directors is during key meetings. Once the vaccine is available, we have to see if we can continue with this ‘new normal’,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mitra-slams-centres-improper-economic-response-to-covid/articleshow/79586867.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal: BJP leader Mukul Roy named in MLA murder chargesheet||KOLKATA: The state Criminal Investigation Department has named BJP vice-president Mukul Roy in the third supplementary chargesheet in the 2019 murder of Krishnaganj Trinamool Congress MLA Satyajit Biswas, prompting Roy to label it as yet another instance of “vendetta politics”. The CID, in its six-page supplementary chargesheet, accused Roy of being one of the “conspirators” in the murder. “He (Roy) was among the conspirators in Biswas’s murder. He has been charged under Sections 302 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code,” assistant public prosecutor Pradip Pramanik said. Investigating officers had named BJP Ranaghat MP Jag-annath Sarkar as an accused in an earlier charge sheet submitted this September. Roy, however, called the charge sheet “biased”. “The state government has registered at least 45 cases against me. It is part of its vendetta politics. Let the CM accuse me directly. I do not believe in the politics of violence. Let the law take its own course,” Roy said. Central investigating agencies, too, have been pursuing a number of cases in which Trinamool leaders and state officials have been named as accused. The Enforcement Directorate has sought relevant documents from Trinamool MP Prasun Banerjee, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim and former minister Madan Mitra in connection with the probe into the Narada muddle. The Central Bureau of Investigation has sent reminders to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, seeking his permission to draw up proceedings against Trinamool MPs Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Trinamool rebel Suvendu Adhikari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mukul-named-in-mla-murder-charge-sheet/articleshow/79587373.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolkata||Saradha accused says ‘5 leaders took money’, seeks probe||KOLKATA: Saradha group boss Sudipta Sen has written a letter to PM Narendra Modi and CM Mamata Banerjee, seeking a fresh investigation into the “huge amounts of money” taken from him by some political leaders. Immediately after he was arrested in the scam in April 2013, Sen had written a letter to CBI mentioning names of some of the accused. In the latest letter, Sen has named five leaders who had allegedly taken money from him when Saradha group was active across the state. Introducing himself as the owner and director of the group, he alleged that “there are many political parties” who have taken “huge amounts of money” from him. Sen named Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury, CPM leaders Biman Bose and Sujan Chakraborty, BJP leader Mukul Roy and Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari. He also mentioned the amount of money accepted by each, except Roy. According to sources, Sen had written a prisoner’s petition (permitted under Jail Code, Rule 615) on December 1. The petition, which reached the Presidency Correctional Home superintendent, was forwarded to the ministry of prison and subsequently to Nabanna. Sen also urged both “CBI and the state police” to take necessary action in the case. Apart from the five, he mentioned in the letter that several other “political leaders from CPM, BJP, Congress and TMC” have accepted money from him. When contacted, Roy said: “He is an accused in the case. Statement of an accused or co-accused in a case does not have any value. I would not react to what he has said.” Suvendu said: “It has been doctored. How suddenly he has the recalled the events prior to 2013 in December 2020. It is clear to all that Sen had been forced to write it.” CPM leader Chakraborty questioned the timing of the letter. “He has named both Biman Bose and me. Suddenly he remembered these names seven years after he was arrested. There seems to be an ulterior motive behind this. It has to be seen if anyone influenced him to write the letter. It must also be investigated what the state SIT was doing if Sen had such specific information with him,” Chakraborty said. TOI tried to get in touch with Chowdhury, but he could not be reached despite repeated calls and WhatsApp and text messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/saradha-accused-says-5-leaders-took-money-seeks-probe/articleshow/79586976.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 6, 2020||Jamshedpur||Doctors confident of reducing Covid cases to single digit in E Singhbhum||JAMSHEDPUR: Encouraged by the recent declining trend of cases in East Singbhum, doctors here are confident that the daily count of cases will reduce to a single digit in the next few days. In the past 10 days, the district reported 20 cases on an average per day and health officials have urged people to follow the safety norms in order to keep the trend going. “Compliance is the only way to eradicate Covid-19 from the district steadily. The daily count would reduce to a single digit if people continue to sincerely follow the guidelines,” Sahir Pal, the additional chief medical officer-cum-district surveillance officer, said. Between November 25 and December 4, the district reported 267 cases — 20 cases on an average on six days and 43, 38, 32 and 29 cases on the remaining four. As many as 270 recoveries and two deaths were reported during that period. “Continuous monitoring of cases, increased testing and timely treatment of patients have helped in reducing the number of cases,” urologist Dr Harpreet Singh said. Presently, there are 203 cases in the district, of which Steel City constitutes 145 while the rural blocks of Potka and Dalbhumgarh have 13 and 15 cases, respectively. Each of the remaining six blocks have cases in single digit. “The virus spread has been curbed to a considerable extent in the rural areas but we need to be cautious in the urban places as they are often crowded,” Indian Medical Association (Jamshedpur) president Dr Umesh Khan said. From May 12 (when the first case was reported in East Singhbhum) to now, the district has recorded 16,867 cases, of which 16,293 have recovered and 371 succumbed to the infection. East Singhbhum, which has a recovery rate of 97% at the moment, has conducted 38,9402 tests in the past 200 days. “Our district can wipe out the virus even before the vaccine arrives in East Singhbhum, provided we don’t violate the safety protocols, particularly during the ongoing wedding season,” medical practitioner Dr V K Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/docs-confident-of-reducing-covid-cases-to-single-digit-in-e-singhbhum/articleshow/79586002.cms||B Sridhar
December 6, 2020||India||K’taka ex-minister Baig gets bail in IMA case||NEW DELHI: A special CBI court on Saturday granted bail to former minister R Roshan Baig, who had been arrested in connection with the multi-crore I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. Baig has to appear before the CBI on the second and fourth Mondays and whenever summoned. He should not hold a threat to witness and surrender his passport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ktaka-ex-minister-baig-gets-bail-in-ima-case/articleshow/79587793.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chennai||Cyclone Burevi: 11 Tamil Nadu ministers deputed for relief work||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday deputed 11 ministers to take up rescue and relief work in Cuddalore, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Chennai districts affected by cyclone ‘Burevi’ and announced Rs 10 lakh each to the families of seven who died in rain-related incidents. At least 1.21 lakh people from low-lying areas across TN were shifted to 515 relief camps until Saturday evening. At least 14 NDRF teams have been stationed in six districts.  A portion of Kodaikanal-Palani road blocked due to landslideAcross the state, one lakh food packets were being distributed to the affected people. In Chennai, the city corporation will supply free food thrice a day to 26 lakh people belonging to 5.3 lakh families from December 6 to 13. About 42,000 people were shifted to relief camps in the worst-hit Cuddalore district. Officials have started discharging 5,000 cusces of water from Veeranam Tank where water level had touched 46.15ft on Saturday against its capacity of 47.5ft. Fishermen take stock of their boats in Ramanathapuram on Saturday.Though there was respite from rain, several areas in Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur continued to remain inundated, with thousands being sent to relief camps. Of the 3.34 lakh acres of samba in Nagapattinam, 1.05 lakh acres have been inundated. The cyclone has also ravaged 1.21 lakh hectares in Tiruvallur and 23,500 hectares in Thanjavur. The low-pressure system, which remains intact around 40km southwest of Ramanathapuram since Friday, may bring heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over TN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-11-ministers-to-speed-up-relief-work-1-2-lakh-people-in-515-camps/articleshow/79587798.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Is Mumbai's Covid curve under control? Positivity rate down to key 5% mark||MUMBAI: The decline in Mumbai's Covid graph was clearly evident on Saturday as the 'coronavirus test positivity rate' that was at times as high as 32% during the early phase of the pandemic dipped to 5%. Only 825 out of the 16,394 people tested on Friday were positive, according to a statement released by BMC commissioner I S Chahal early on Saturday. "The Covid test positivity for the last 10 days looks promising, but we should not be complacent and should not lower our guard," said the commissioner. Public health experts have warned that cases could increase slightly by December-end, when temperatures drop and air pollution levels increase in Mumbai. The World Health Organisation has maintained that a positivity rate of 5% is significant in order to get the Covid curve under control. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said, "Mumbai had been struggling with Covid-19. It had a high tally of cases as well as a high death rate. But in the last month, the cases have been steadily declining. It has at last caught up with the magic number of 5%. It can now be said that Covid is officially on the decline in Mumbai." The BMC statement on Saturday said the test positivity rate was 6.69% on November 25, when one of the highest numbers of daily tests -- 19,018 - were done and 1,272 tested positive.The rate increased to 6.84% on November 29, when 721 out of 10,538 tested positive. The positivity rate has been under 6% since December 1, declining steadily every day to 5.03% on December 4. However, a closer look at the testing numbers on December 4 showed that positivity rate for RT-PCR tests in government hospitals was still high at 31%: 54 out of 173 tested here were positive. In the private sector, which had done the bulk of the RT-PCR tests at 8,155, the positivity was 7%, with 603 patients. In BMC-run RT-PCR tests, only 27 out of 539 (5%) tested positive. BMC did more of antigen tests - 7,155 - on Friday, with only 113 or 2% testing positive. "In the initial days, when our testing capacity was low and we had a limited number of kits, we would only test symptomatic patients and on a few days we got a positivity rate of 36%," said a senior BMC doctor. Even now, the doctor said, the positivity rate among patients who get tested at hospitals is higher than the overall rate. At the national level, the daily positivity rate has been below 5% for a couple of weeks now. Around 10 lakh tests were being done on an average every day across the country, and positivity rate has been between 4.3% and 5%."With a continuous surge in daily cases in European and the American countries, India is taking all cautionary steps to bring the trajectory of the disease under control. In view of the increase in Covid cases of some of the north Indian States, the Centre has advised all states and UTs to ramp up testing," said the health ministry statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/is-mumbais-covid-curve-under-control-positivity-rate-down-to-key-5-mark/articleshow/79587807.cms||Malathy Iyer
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||After four days, daily Covid cases dip below 5,000 in Maharashtra; toll under 100||MUMBAI: Four days after reporting over 5,000 Covid-19 cases, the state on Saturday reported 4,922 cases and 95 deaths. With this, the total cases in the state stood at 18,47,509, and the fatalities rose to 47,694. The state had been reporting over 100 deaths for the last three days, but the trend was broken on Saturday. The daily number of Covid cases in Mumbai continued to decline, with only 758 cases added on Saturday. The city registered 19 deaths, taking the toll so far to 10,964. The case tally in the city has climbed to 2.85 lakh. Experts said that Mumbai's Covid graph had stabilised between 1,000 and 1,500 cases daily until a month back, and the decline in daily cases has now begun. "Only 5% of the 16,000-plus people who were tested on Friday were positive. Mumbai is in a safe place at the moment," said BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. However, he said the BMC would not lower its guard for another month or so. "Our jumbo facilities and oxygen-supported beds and medicines are all in place to ensure that we are ready for any second wave, if at all," he added. A senior BMC doctor said that even if Covid cases increased in the last week of December, the daily tally is unlikely to cross 1200. "The daily load will not be as high as it was in September," said the doctor. In September, the daily caseload had shot up to 2,500-2,700 on some days. The active cases in the state continued to dip. A total of 5,834 recoveries were reported on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to over 17.1 lakh and the rate of recovery to 92.8%. The active cases in the state stood at 82,849, of which 14,048 were in Mumbai. In Thane, 154 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths were recorded within 24 hours on Saturday, taking the tally there so far to 52,460 patients and toll to 1,188. The recovery rate there is 94.9%. At present, Thane city has 1,456 active cases. In Navi Mumbai, 109 positive cases were reported on Saturday, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 48,896. Of these cases, 95% have recovered so far. Two deaths were also reported in NMMC, taking the toll to 996. PCMC areas reported 81 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the case tally to 25,810. With one death reported, the number of deaths there reached 582 At the state level, the MMR region reported 1,640 cases and 27 deaths, taking its total cases to nearly 6.4 lakh and the total deaths to 18,652. Meanwhile, the task force set up by the state which is headed by the chief secretary is likely to meet this week to review the infrastructure and manpower required for the vaccination drive. As per the timeline set by the Central government, a list of healthcare workers in the state is supposed to be finalised and uploaded on the Central server by this week, and since each district will be uploading their respective data, the total number of healthcare workers is not yet known, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-four-days-daily-covid-cases-dip-below-5000-in-maharashtra-toll-under-100/articleshow/79587820.cms||Bhavika Jain
December 6, 2020||India||Stop commenting on our leadership if you want a stable govt: Maharashtra minister||NEW DELHI: Congress functionary and Maharashtra’s women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur on Saturday hit out at NCP president Sharad Pawar without naming him for saying that Rahul Gandhi lacked consistency. “Stop commenting on the Congress leadership if you want a stable government,” she said. “Everyone should follow the basic rules of coalition, adhere to the coalition dharma.” Thakur, MLA from Teosa in Amravati district, is considered a member of the Rahul brigade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stop-commenting-on-our-leadership-if-you-want-a-stable-govt-maharashtra-minister/articleshow/79587825.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
December 6, 2020||Ranchi||89% seats under RTE lying vacant in Ranchi: RTI||RANCHI: Pinning hopes on Right To Education Act, Fauziya Parween had dreamt of getting her son educated in an English medium private school. It was under the provisions of this Act, regulations of which were notified by the state government in May 2011, that her son Umar Farooq could have got his education free of cost. As per the regulations, she arranged for necessary documents and applied online at dseranchi.com, but her application was rejected without any reason being cited. Umar Farooq is not the only child deprived from the right of child to free and compulsory education as 89% of the applications received under Section 12 (1) C of the RTE for the academic year 2019-20 have been rejected in Ranchi district alone while 74% of the free seats are lying vacant and no one owes responsibility. Talking to TOI, social activist and visiting fellow at the Institute of Human Development, Swati Narayan said there is lack of transparency in the matter of admissions against the free seats. “Two of our fellow activists — Kareem Ansari and Hasan Al Banna — of the Association for Parivartan of Nation (a not for profit organisation) filed an RTI. In the reply, it was found that for the 3,383 seats available in private schools of seven districts, 3,578 applications were filed in 2019-20, but majority of them were rejected and only 40% seats corresponding to 1,471 students were filled up,” she said. Though the RTI application asked for the status of admission at private schools in all the 24 districts, information was available only for Ranchi, Bokaro, East and West Singhbhum, Godda, Seraikela Kharsawan and Garhwa. While secretary, school education department, Rahul Sharma did not respond to repeated phone calls, Ranchi district’s superintendent of education Kamla Singh said government had no role to play in rejection of applications. “The seats must have remained vacant because there was no application and if there were applications they might not be fulfilling the requirements,” he said and clarified that accepting applications is a prerogative of the private schools. Asked if the government maintains any record or ensures that the seats do not remain vacant, Singh said every year during the start of the academic session, online applications are invited. “We cannot push for admissions midway. In January, we will again invite applications,” he said. The data also revealed that of the different districts in Jharkhand, Ranchi is the worst performing with 89% of applications being rejected. Godda and Bokara had more than 50% of applications rejected and more than half the seats are vacant. Of the data available, East and West Singhbhum are the best performing, but several districts have a suspiciously low number of private schools registered or do not provide any information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/89-seats-under-rte-lying-vacant-in-ranchi-rti/articleshow/79585986.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 6, 2020||India||Repay salary of Rs 65 lakh, UP tells disqualified MLA||LUCKNOW: The UP government on Saturday slapped a notice for recovery of salary and allowances of Rs 65 lakh from disqualified Samajwadi Party MLA Abdullah Azam Khan, son of SP veteran Mohammed Azam Khan. A UP assembly spokesman confirmed the move to TOI. Abdullah, who made a debut in the state assembly was disqualified, following conviction in a forgery case in which he fudged his birth date to become eligible to contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/repay-salary-of-rs-65-lakh-up-tells-disqualified-mla/articleshow/79587837.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 6, 2020||Chennai||Five electrocuted in separate accidents in Chennai, Kancheepuram||CHENNAI: Snapped live cables in pools of water claimed the lives of five people including a Tangedco employee and a woman in three separate accidents in Chennai and Kancheepuram districts on Friday and Saturday. At Injambakkam village near Wallajahbad in Kancheepuram district, 48-yearold Bhagyanathan of Tangedco and Dayalan, 38, a contract worker under the state power utility, were electrocuted while trying to fix a snapped cable on Friday night. Unaware that another length of cable, this one live, was lying in a puddle, they stepped into it to reach the post when they received a shock. Concerned that Dayalan hadn’t returned home, his brother Gopi went to the spot and found the two men lying dead. He immediately alerted police. A team arrived and sent the bodies to the Chengalpet Government Hospital for postmortem. A case was registered. On Saturday morning, two workers trying to clear stagnant water from a fence-making unit in Pulianthope were electrocuted. Police said M Arumugam, 48, of Vyasarpadi and P Mohan, 68, of Kannikapuram, arrived at Chain Link and Wire Netting Industries around 9am and found the premises under knee-deep. Instead of informing the owner and seeking help, they decided to clear it themselves. A few minutes later, people of a few residences near the unit heard screams and ran to the spot. They found them lying unconscious in the water and alerted the fire control room. A team of personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) station at Vyasarpadi rushed to the unit run by a man named Sanjay Jain and confirmed they had been electrocuted after stepping on to a live cable that had snapped and fallen into the water. The bodies were removed and sent to the Government Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital (KMCH). The Pulianthope police registered a case. In Anna Nagar, 56-year-old S Nalini Rani touched a leaking power cable at her house in ‘O’ Block and was thrown away. Her family members took her to the KMCH, where doctors declared her dead on arrival. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-electrocuted-in-separate-accidents-in-chennai-kancheepuram/articleshow/79587845.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Mukul Roy named in TMC neta’s murder chargesheet||KOLKATA: The state CID has named BJP vice-president Mukul Roy in the third supplementary chargesheet in the 2019 murder of Krishnaganj TMC MLA Satyajit Biswas, prompting Roy to label it as yet another instance of “vendetta politics”. The CID, in its six-page supplementary chargesheet, accused Roy of being one of the “conspirators” in the murder. “He (Roy) was among the conspirators in Biswas’s murder. He has been charged under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC,” said assistant public prosecutor Pradip Pramanik. Investigating officers named BJP Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar as an accused in an earlier chargesheet submitted this September. Roy, however, called the chargesheet “biased”. Central investigating agencies, too, have been pursuing a number of cases in which TMC leaders and state officials have been named as accused. TheED has sought documents from Trinamool MP Prasun Banerjee, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim and former minister Madan Mitra in connection with the probe into the Narada muddle. The CBI has sent reminders to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla, seeking his permission to draw up proceedings against Trinamool MPs Kakali Ghosh Dastidar, Prasun Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Trinamool rebel Suvendu Adhikari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mukul-roy-named-in-tmc-netas-murder-chargesheet/articleshow/79587848.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chennai||Rajinikanth will decide on alliance after party launch: Tamilaruvi Manian||CHENNAI: Amid doubts whether the BJP would have a rethink on its alliance with the AIADMK for the 2021 assembly polls in the wake of actor Rajinikanth announcing launch of his party, Tamilaruvi Manian, who has been assigned the task of supervising the formation of the party, said the actor would announce his decision about alliance after launch of the party. Rajinikanth will announce the date of launch of the party only on December 31. Manian and party chief coordinator Ra Arjuna Murthy were speaking to mediapersons after a two-hour meeting with Rajinikanth on Saturday. “We discussed all aspects of the party, starting from the party flag to establishing its fundamental infrastructure,” Manian said. Asked whether Rajinikanth would contest from Krishnagiri constituency, Manian said there was demand from people in all the 234 constituencies that the leader should contest from their area. The actor would decide whether to contest or not and from where he would contest, said Manian. He expressed hope that people would support him like they supported MGR. On the actor’s idea of spiritual politics, Manian said, “Rajinikanth is not the first person to talk about spiritual politics. Mahatma Gandhi spoke about it. It is not against or in favour of any religion. It will be different from the hate politics that prevails now”. Reacting to DMK leader A Raja’s comments that spiritualism and religion are intertwined, Manian said there was no difference between secular and spiritual politics. Raja’s confusion emanated from his lack of understanding of spirituality and religion, he said. Asked about an earlier video in which Manian had ridiculed Rajinikanth’s plans to take political plunge, Manian said till he met Rajini, he knew him only as an actor. But after interacting with him and knowing him better, he changed his opinion. Manian said the Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam, headed by him, would be merged with Rajinikanth’s party once it was launched. “It is quite natural for politicians to say that the launch of a new party will have no impact on their party,” he said, reacting to the views of DMK and AIADMK leaders. He said as a matter of policy, Rajinikanth’s party leaders would not speak about the DMK or the AIADMK. “We will reach out to the people and tell them what we would do for them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rajinikanth-will-decide-on-alliance-after-party-launch-tamilaruvi-manian/articleshow/79587857.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Saradha boss names 5 ‘who took money’||NEW DELHI: Saradha group boss Sudipta Sen has written to the PM and the CM seeking a fresh probe into the “huge amounts of money” allegedly taken from him by some politicians. He named five politicians — Congress’ Adhir Chowdhury, CPM’s Biman Bose and Sujan Chakraborty, BJP’s Mukul Roy and Trinamool Congress’ Suvendu Adhikari. When contacted, Roy said: “Statement of an accused or co-accused in a case does not have any value.” Chakraborty questioned the timing of the letter and said, “There seems to be an ulterior motive behind this.” TOI could not reach Adhir and Suvendu despite repeated calls and messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/saradha-boss-names-5-who-took-money/articleshow/79587863.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 6, 2020||India||Naming campus after RSS ideologue stirs Kerala row||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A day after Union minister for science and technology Harsh Vardhan said the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) would be named after RSS ideologue MS Golwalkar, protests have poured in from several quarters against the move. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala were among those who sent letters to the Centre to protest against naming the institute’s new facility after Golwalkar. MP Shashi Tharoor suggested that the new campus be named after Dr Palpu, a renowned bacteriologist and social reformer who hailed from Travancore. However, BJP state spokesperson B Gopalakrishnan said bigotry was the only reason that prompted Congress and CPM leaders to find fault with the Centre’s decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/naming-campus-after-rss-ideologue-stirs-kerala-row/articleshow/79587867.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Chennai||Kamal Haasan supports M K Surappa, slams Tamil Nadu govt||CHENNAI: Actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan on Saturday came out in support of Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa and lashed out at the Tamil Nadu government for constituting an inquiry committee against the V-C based on an anonymous letter. Dubbing ministers and senior leaders of the ruling party as “corrupt collectives (uzhal thilagangal)”, Kamal said he might differ from Surappa's policy and ideology. But he and his party would not remain silent when an honest person was threatened by a collective of corrupt politicians. In a video message, he said, “We must not create another Nambi Narayanan (a former Isro scientist who was falsely charged in an espionage case and arrested).” The MNM had opposed the appointment of Surappa when he was appointed as the V-C and questioned whether there was no eligible person in the state for the post. “We still stand by that, but he is an honest man and he did not give into the authoritative pressure. He tried to improve the quality of the standard of engineering in TN. But the corrupt politicians are not allowing it to happen,” said Kamal. He questioned the rationale behind forming an inquiry committee against Surappa based on an anonymous letter. Kamal pointed out corruption charges against ministers of higher education, animal husbandry, health and family welfare and urban and local body and wondered why there was no inquiry into the charges. “Opposition parties and social activities have raised corruption charges everyday against the ministers. Why is there no inquiry into those charges,” Kamal asked. Calling the tussle between the Tamil Nadu government and the V-C as a “battle between honesty and corruption”, Kamal urged the people who stand by truth to break their “silence and speak up now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/kamal-haasan-supports-m-k-surappa-slams-tamil-nadu-govt/articleshow/79587868.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: School teacher kills nurse wife over suspicion of affair||VADODARA: A government school teacher Jayesh Patel, living on Ajwa Road, was detained on Saturday for allegedly murdering his wife, a nurse, over suspicion of having an extra-marital affair. The 39-year-old victim Shilpa Patel, who works at GMERS Medical College and Hospital in Gotri, was found dead near Vaikunth-2 Society near VIP Road on Friday late evening. Patel was working as a nurse at the Hospital for Mental Health for the last five years but was deputed to the Gotri hospital since the pandemic. Initially, it was suspected that Patel could be a victim of a road accident. But since there was no damage on her scooter and her head injuries also seemed to have been caused by an attack, cops began looking for the attacker. At the crime scene, Jayesh cried profusely in front of cops, but police became suspicious as his answers were not satisfactory. When he was interrogated, he broke down and admitted that he had killed his wife. The couple had been having marital differences for the past one year. On Friday evening too, they had an altercation. When Patel left for work, Jayesh followed and stopped her near Vaikunth-2 Society. “The accused asked her to leave her scooter there and sit in the car. He took her to an open plot near the national highway-48 where they again had a verbal altercation,” said a police official. Enraged by the arguments, Jayesh took out a cloth beater from the car and hit Patel on the head. Jayesh also strangulated Patel. Jayesh drove back and dumped Patel’s body near her scooter before fleeing away. It was only around 8.30 pm that a passer-by saw Patel’s body and informed police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/school-teacher-kills-nurse-wife-over-suspicion-of-affair/articleshow/79585298.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: ‘Conservation reserve’ tag for 7 Western Ghats forests||KOLHAPUR: The wildlife will have their own habitat from the Tillari forest in the south of the Western Ghats section of Maharashtra to Jor-Jambhli forest in the north in Satara district, as seven forest ranges between the protected areas have been declared ‘conservation reserves’ (CR). A decision in this regard was taken by the state wildlife board, headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, at a meeting in Mumbai on Friday. As per the official definition, CRs are notified protected areas that act as buffer zones or migration corridors between established sanctuaries and protected forest areas. Clement Ben, Kolhapur’s chief conservator of forests, hailed the decision as historic, saying that it will ensure the entire stretch of diverse Western Ghats section in Maharashtra is protected. “Granting the CR tag is a first step to protect forest and its wildlife. We have humananimal conflict and now these CRs will help the wildlife move freely. We had proposed only inhabitable sections of the forest ranges and our proposal has been accepted by the state board,” said Ben. Wildlife activists too welcomed the state wildlife board. Samrat Kerkar, an activist associated with the Bison Nature Club, said, “Since these forest stretches are now protected legally, we expect more activities to help grow forest tourism. It will help in the growth of wildlife population as their habitat will remain secured.” Now, any development work in these forest ranges will not be allowed without consulting the state board. All the rules of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, will be applicable to the new CRs. The total size of these conservation reserve forest, along with two from Vidharbha region, is around 1,529 square kilometres. The state government has decided to allocate funds up to Rs 20 crore for the protection of these CRs. In June this year, the board had granted the CR tag to Tillari, which connects the Madhei sanctury in Goa and Bhimgad forest in Karnataka. The inhabitable sections of the Amboli-Dodamarg, Chandgad and Ajara forest ranges connecting Tillari CR to Radhanagari Wildlife Sanctuary, Gaganbawda, Panhalagad and Vishalgad connecting the Radhanagari to Sahyadri Tiger Reserve (STR) and Jor-Jambhali forest encapsulating the northern section of STR have been tagged as CRs. Along with these, the surroundings of the Mayani bird sanctuary too have been declared a CR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maharashtra-conservation-reserve-tag-for-7-western-ghats-forests/articleshow/79587866.cms||Abhijeet Patil
December 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: No ‘kottikkalasam’, campaign ends with mega virtual rallies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Moving away from the practice of ‘Kottikkalasam’ due to Covid-19 restrictions, LDF and UDF replaced the grand finale of election campaigns with virtual rallies addressed by top leaders on Saturday, a day before campaign for the first phase of local body elections ends. However, BJP, which started off its campaign with a series of virtual rallies, has opted for door-to-door campaigns and meetings, adhering to Covid protocols. Addressing a virtual rally, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan slammed UDF, BJP and a section of media, which according to him was playing to the tune of right wing forces. He said none of the detractors were ready to appreciate the LDF government’s developmental works and welfare measures. “UDF and BJP are speaking the same language. A section of media repeats the same. They are not ready to ask important questions regarding the contributions of the government to development and welfare. BJP, which is adept in toppling elected governments by buying MLAs, knows well that such a tactic won’t work in Kerala. Hence, BJP is trying to topple the only Communist government in the country using central agencies,” Pinarayi said. ‘All projects undertaken by govt are mired in corruption’The CM claimed that all allegations against the LDF government were “based on stories cooked up by detractors”. However, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala who inaugurated the UDF virtual rally here said LDF was not in a position to project Pinarayi Vijayan as its leader for local body elections. “LDF’s predicament is such that it is not even able to seek votes by projecting Pinarayi as its leader. The office of chief minister has become a den of charlatans. All projects undertaken by the government are mired in corruption,” he said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said the LDF government has done nothing new. It has only inaugurated projects that were almost completed by the previous UDF government. “Kannur airport and Kochi Metro are examples. CPM leader E P Jayarajan had staged a protest in front of Kannur airport when the first trial flight landed. He had argued that the airport runway was too short. If that is the case, why did the LDF government fail to extend the runway even by a metre,” he asked. The first phase of election would be held on December 8 in T’puram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts. It will be followed by the second and third phase of polling scheduled on Dec 10 and 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-no-kottikkalasam-campaign-ends-with-mega-virtual-rallies/articleshow/79587889.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Scam-exposing RTI activist dies in freak accident||HARIDWAR: Pankaj Lamba, a 50-year-old Dalit RTI activist who had blown the lid off the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam in Uttarakhand, was killed after a freak accident in which a 16-year-old girl accidentally fired a shot at him from the activist’s own pistol, reports MS Nawaz. The bullet hit him on the neck. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him dead. The incident happened on Friday night at Tehri Visthapit colony. According to police, Lamba was at a party at the girl’s house where he allegedly gave his pistol to the teenager to look at. Lamba thought pistol was empty, gave it to girl, say copsPolice said activist Pankaj Lamba had assumed the pistol was empty but a bullet was in the pistol’s chamber. Five persons, including the girl’s sister and two of Lamba’s associates, were present at the time of the incident. SHO Ranipur police station Yogesh Dev told TOI, “Apparently, the girl, her sister and two younger brothers were not happy with their father’s second marriage after the death of their mother. Their father is a resident of Delhi and had left the children in Haridwar where he often came to meet them. The girl, meanwhile, came in contact with a man named Manav who is a close associate of Lamba. Manav invited Lamba for a party at the girl’s residence on Friday.” “Lamba had two firearms at the time of the incident and he gave one of the pistols to the girl to look at,” Dev said. Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI, “Liquor bottles and food were recovered from the site. We have recorded the statement of the girls and two other persons who were at the spot. A probe is underway.” Lamba had filed several RTIs on the basis of which an SIT had been formed on the orders of the court to investigate siphoning off of funds meant for SC/ST students in the state. The scam is estimated to be over Rs 350 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scam-exposing-rti-activist-dies-in-freak-accident/articleshow/79587900.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt for 10 years’ jail if ‘love-jihad’ victim is minor||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday evening chaired a meeting on the format of Religious Freedom Act-2020 — touted as an anti-‘love-jihad’ law — and said no person in the state will be able to forcibly or fraudulently convert anyone’s religion through marriage, seduction or intimidation. Earlier in the day, Chouhan had said: “This bill is our Beti Bachao Abhiyan. We will not allow ‘love jihad’ in MP.” The onus will be on the accused to prove that they aren’t guilty of conversion. The MP government intends to make the law as stringent as possible. Chouhan chaired back-to-back meetings on the law on Friday and Saturday. According to the draft proposal, anyone violating Section 3 of the Act will face imprisonment of up to five years and a fine of not less than Rs 25,000, said officials. If the person converted is a minor or from an SC or ST community, the prison term will be two to 10 years and fine Rs 50,000, they added. 10 years jail proposed for mass conversionsTrying to hide one’s religion will be punishable by three to 10 years’ imprisonment and a fine of at least Rs 50,000. Those attempting ‘mass conversion’ — two or more persons — will be jailed for five to 10 years and fined at least Rs 1 lakh. Under the proposed Act, the affected person’s parents or blood relatives can file a complaint. The offence shall be cognisable, nonbailable and shall be investigated by an officer of at least sub-inspector rank. Sessions courts can take up such cases, say officials. Any marriage conducted with the intention of conversion will be considered null and void, following an application to the family court, says the draft proposal. “Under Section 3 of the proposed Act, no one can convert or attempt to convert either directly or otherwise any other person from one religion to another by use or practice of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement or by any fraudulent means or by marriage. No person can attempt to abet or conspire religious conversion,” said a press statement. Those who wish to convert of their own free will have to inform the district magistrate in writing in advance. So must the religious leader who will conduct the conversion. Chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, additional chief secretaryhome Rajesh Rajaura and principal secretary-Law were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-govt-for-10-years-jail-if-love-jihad-victim-is-minor/articleshow/79587919.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Kochi||Escape bid gone awry? Woman falls from sixth floor in Kochi||KOCHI: In a bizarre incident, a domestic help at an apartment complex in Marine Drive was seriously injured on Saturday after she fell on to the portico of the building while apparently trying to climb down from its sixth floor by tying sarees together. Police said two sarees were found tied together onto the handrails of the balcony of the apartment where the woman used to work as a housemaid. Kumari in her fifties, who is from Salem in Tamil Nadu, is suspected to have slipped and fallen down at around five in the morning but the apartment residents came to know about the incident only by around 8am, police said. She was admitted to a hospital in the city. Hospital sources said that her condition is serious and that she is in ICU. According to police, the woman had gone home during the lockdown and reported back to work only a week ago. A team of senior officers of the Kochi police commissionerate, including Ernakulam assistant commissioner K Laljy, visited the spot in the morning. “The length of the sarees was almost enough for the women to reach a safe spot, from where she could have jumped on to the portico. It seems like she lost her grip at some point and fell. The family who hired herm claims that since the door to the woman’s room was locked from inside they came to know about the incident only late in the morning,” said a senior police officer. Kochi Central police have launched an investigation. Fire force personnel said that they received a call at around 8.10am reporting about the incident. They rushed to the spot and took the woman to the General Hospital, Ernakulam from where she was referred to the private hospital. “She was conscious but was bleeding profusely, ” said a fire service officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/escape-bid-gone-awry-woman-falls-from-siixth-floor-in-kochi/articleshow/79587912.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Case against Pilot’s media adviser, scribe closed over lack of evidence||NEW DELHI: Police have closed the case related to spreading of fake news against former Rajasthan deputy CM Sachin Pilot’s media adviser Lokendra Singh and a TV journalist due to lack of evidence. Those named in the FIR are Singh and Aaj Tak’s Jaipur-based editor Sharad Kumar. The matter pertained to the alleged tapping of phones of Congress MLAs when they were in Jaisalmer during the recent political crisis. Jaipur police commissioner Anand Srivastava said, “The information was circulated on WhatsApp but despite attempts, we could not find the source from which the message originated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/case-against-pilots-media-adviser-scribe-closed-over-lack-of-evidence/articleshow/79587930.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Lucknow||256 more test positive, four lose Covid battle in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: As many as 256 more people tested positive for novel coronavirus infection in the city on Saturday, while four more patients lost the battle with the virus. Both cases and deaths in Lucknow over 24 hours were highest in the state and accounted for 13% and 17% of the tally and toll respectively. The state capital has been on the top in UP in terms of Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state for long. About 344 patients also recovered on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 68,684, which is 94% of the total case count 73,101 since the outbreak. However, 1.4% (1,024) of the patients could not survive. As on Saturday evening, there were 3,393 patients with active infection status in the city. Of these, 2,181 were in home quarantine, while the rest were in hospital. Gomtinagar continued to record the highest number of cases with 32 residents testing Covid-19 positive on Saturday followed by Indiranagar 27, Rae Bareli Road 18 and Aashiana 16. The areas that recorded 10 cases each included Chowk, Alambagh, Mahanagar, Vikasnagar, Cantonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/256-more-test-positive-four-lose-covid-battle-in-lucknow/articleshow/79587929.cms||---
December 6, 2020||India||Jubilant after Hyderabad result, BJP readies for opposition role||NEW DELHI: A jubilant BJP celebrated its dramatic success in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls as “historic” and appeared to be getting ready to occupy the opposition space should TRS and AIMIM decide to break the stalemate in the municipal body by joining hands and showcase its success in scoring a big breakthrough in a hitherto difficult terrain. “Historic result for BJP in Hyderabad GHMC polls shows that people support only development agenda. This result reflects people’s support to PM Modi’s development and governance model,” BJP chief JP Nadda said. Party general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, who was the poll in charge for the GHMC polls, ruled out a partnership with TRS to break the deadlock. “We fought against corruption of TRS and the divisive politics of AIMIM,” he said. The outcome on Friday, which saw BJP pulling off an impressive feat by taking its tally from four to 48, just seven short of TRS, marked another instance of the leadership’s seemingly risky gambit paying off. Home minister Amit Shah and Nadda were convinced that the party’s campaign against “dynasty rule” and “corruption” under TRS and the shrill “secular” rhetoric of AIMIM had created the right climate. “People attacked BJP for giving undue importance to municipal polls. But we maintained that we are striving for development at all levels of governance and it is the people of Hyderabad who got our message,” he said. The performances comes in the wake of the party’s success in LS polls when it surprised many by bagging four seats and the embarrassment it inflicted last month on TRS by winning the by-election for an assembly seat which was seen as part of the stronghold of TRS’s “first family”. Juxtaposed with Congress’s meltdown and TDP’s growing diminution, the results can help clear the way for the party to position itself as the main alternative to TRS and take advantage of the “anti-incumbency” sentiment displayed by results in Hyderabad. “Those who branded BJP as a party of the north must take note, BJP is a party of everyone from Kashmir to Kanyakumari,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jubilant-after-hyderabad-result-bjp-readies-for-opposition-role/articleshow/79587936.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Mandideep production back to pre-Covid levels||BHOPAL: The industrial units at Mandideep have started operating at nearpre-Covid levels, say sources. Hiring is up but semiskilled labourers are in short supply as a large number of them haven’t returned after the reverse migration during lockdown. Production in Govindpura industrial area in Bhopal has also improved. In fact, both industrial areas are in a tug of war for labourers, say sources. “For the past one and a half months, production has almost reached normal level because of an increase in consumption,” said Rajeev Agrawal, president of the Association of Mandideep Industrial Area. Industrial areas of other states have also become operational, leading to an “overall improvement in the industrial scene”, he added. There are over 650 units in Mandideep, about 10km from Bhopal city limits. The majority of them are MSME. ‘Production has improved a lot’Many industrial units are looking for workers and have displayed their requirements at the factory gates,” Agrawal said, adding that all the labour force available at Mandideep has been hired, but demand is still rising. President of Govindpura Industrial Area, Amarjeet Singh, said, “Production has improved a lot, but we need labourers to boost production further.” In the past, industrial units at both estates were working with reduced capacity and reduced strength of 25-30%.Now, as production is being ramped up, industries are struggling to find labourers. Industrialists said the cost of production has also gone up because of the hike in rates of oxygen used in the industrial areas. In September, the government restricted supply of oxygen to industrial areas and diverted it to hospitals for Corona-infected patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-mandideep-production-back-to-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/79587925.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 6, 2020||India||‘Dummy’ bags 39 votes, mom loses by just 32||HYDERABAD: A TRS woman candidate lost the polls because of her son. BJP’s M L Reddy defeated M L Goud by just 32 votes in BN Reddy Nagar division, on Friday. While the defeat by a slender margin was not digestible for her, what shocked her more was the fact that 39 votes were bagged by an Independent candidate. These votes could well have gone in her favour as the Independent candidate was none other than her son Ranjith Goud. As a political strategy, the mother and son both filed their nomination papers. This cost the mother dearly. “Had the party leadership made Ranjith withdraw in time, our candidate could have romped home,” a TRS functionary said. She is seeking recounting of votes. She has charged the returning officer with being partial to the BJP candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dummy-bags-39-votes-mom-loses-by-just-32/articleshow/79587945.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 6, 2020||India||TRS-BJP margins less than 1,000 in 15% of divisions||HYDERABAD: In a closely fought contest between the ruling TRS and BJP in the GHMC polls, the victory margin was below 1,000 votes in 15 % of municipal divisions. Of the 150 divisions, 23 candidates won with narrow margins. TRS lost 14 seats to BJP with less than 1,000 votes and likewise, BJP lost seven to the ruling party. For instance, TRS candidate Jithendranath defeated BJP candidate S Naresh with a margin of 34 votes. AIMIM, which swept the old city, lost its prestigious seat Jambagh to BJP candidate Rakesh Jaiswal with a margin of 180 votes and Congress lost Gajularamaram to TRS by 436 votes. GHMC election authorities said in many places the margins were just 4000-5000 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trs-bjp-margins-less-than-1000-in-15-of-divisions/articleshow/79587951.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 6, 2020||Kozhikode||Case against Kannur CWC chairman over plaint by abuse survivor||KOZHIKODE: Thalassery police have registered a case against Kannur child welfare committee (CWC) chairman after a sexual abuse survivor filed a complaint that he had talked in sexually-coloured language with her. Police said the case was registered on the basis of the statement the girl gave before the magistrate. A case was registered at Kudiyanmala police station for sexually abusing the 17-year-old girl. Dr ED Joseph, who is the CWC chairman, visited the CWC office at Thalassery to have a counselling session with the girl on October 21 in connection with the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/case-against-kannur-cwc-chairman-over-plaint-by-abuse-survivor/articleshow/79587956.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Schools from Classes 1 to 8 shut till March 31, parents relieved||BHOPAL: Parents heaved a sigh of relief after the state government declared that schools for Classes 1 to 8 will remain shut till March 31 next year in wake of the pandemic. “There will be no regular classes for the students of Classes 1 to 8 in the state till March 31, 2021. No test would be conducted for students of Classes 1 to 8 and they will be evaluated on the basis of the project work,” CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said while on Friday. Parents said that the decision has set an example for other states. “I think MP is the first such state in the country, which has made it clear that schools for Classes up to 8 will remain shut till March 31. As a parent, I was worried about how to send my 3-yearold kid to school in such a situation,” said Lalit Verma. He added that the state government has put the safety of students as priority before taking such decisions. Parents also said that students have learnt how to attend classes online and they should not be disturbed in the middle of the session. “My son has been attending classes for the past 9 months. Now, asking students to attending school was not viable. Students have got familiarised with the new normal. In this situation, it is better to continue the ongoing session with the online concept,” said Vineet Sikarwar. However, parents said that there were several issues in online exams. “This is good that there will be no exams and students would be evaluated on the basis of the project work. When there were no proper classes there was no meaning of exams. Students must be relieved after this,” said Nishid Singh, father of a class 5 student. Few parents, however, suggested that the exams could have been organised. “By not conducting exams, students will stop caring about the studies. I think, exams must be conducted as they were organised in the recent past. There was no harm in conducting exams,” said Vidhi Nair, mother of a Class 8 student. Notably, schools for Classes 10 and 12 would resume shortly for the board exams. Students of Classes 9 and 11 will be called to schools once or twice a week, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-schools-from-classes-1-to-8-shut-till-march-31-parents-relieved/articleshow/79587964.cms||Ramendra Singh
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tributes paid to Ahmed Patel||Gandhinagar: A large number of people from Gujarat and across the country paid tributes to the late Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel on Saturday. A condolence meeting was organized on the lawns of the Sardar Patel Smarak to pay homage to the departed leader by the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC). Along with Ahmed Patel’s son Faisal Patel and other family members, many Congress leaders and workers attended the meeting. Moreover, several prominent citizens from different walks of life — industry notables, representatives of social organizations, and religious leaders — attended the meeting. Among those who were present were Rajeev Satav, the AICC in charge of Gujarat; GPCC president Amit Chavda; the leader of the opposition, Paresh Dhanani; and former Union minister and state Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki. Former Gujarat chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela, Rajya Sabha member Parimal Nathwani, and others also took part in the meeting. Scores of followers of Ahmed Patel, many of whom worked closely with him in several parts of the state, were among the other attendees. The GPCC organized the event ensuring social distancing norms, considering the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tributes-paid-to-ahmed-patel/articleshow/79585753.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Dahod addl collector dies of Covid-19||Vadodara: Dahod additional collector Dinesh Hadiyal died at a private hospital in the city early on Saturday morning. He is the first senior bureaucrat to succumb to the coronavirus in central Gujarat. Hadiyal had been actively involved in fighting Covid-19 as the Limkheda sub-divisional magistrate. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on November 20. He was admitted to a private hospital in Vadodara for treatment. His condition had been deteriorating during treatment and he breathed his last at around 5am on Saturday. Officials of the Dahod district collectorate including district magistrate and collector Vijay Kharadi prayed for Hadiyal at the district collectorate and observed silence for the Corona warrior. According to sources, Hadiyal had joined government service as a taluka development officer around 15 years ago. He was promoted as an additional collector last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/dahod-addl-collector-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/79585264.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Noida||Four police stations to come up in new sectors||NOIDA: Four new police stations will come up in the city. The Noida Authority has earmarked space for developing the four police stations in localities which have developed over the years and have a sizeable population staying in such blocks. Among them, the much-needed Noida Phase 1 police station will be established in Sector 5. At present, Sector 20 police station has been looking after a large stretch in the city and its jurisdiction is expected to be divided. The second police station will come up in Sector 63. The other two have been planned as Sector 115 police station (to come up in Sector 113) and Okhla Barrage police station (planned in Sector 126). Officials said at least 1,000 sqm of land has been kept aside for developing the four stations. Besides, the Authority officials also decided of installing an additional 11,000 LED street lights in the city. In the past 22,000 LED lights have been installed to cover several road stretches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/four-police-stations-to-come-up-in-new-sectors/articleshow/79586783.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ghaziabad||35-year-old dies in blaze at abandoned firecracker factory||GHAZIABAD: A 35-year-old man died in Farukhnagar when an illegal firecracker factory caught fire after an explosion on Friday. Police said the factory was closed for a long time. “Huge quantity of explosives were stored in an abandoned firecracker factory. While we still do not know what triggered the fire. There was an explosion which led to wall collapse, and the whole area was engulfed in the fire. An unidentified man of about 35 years of age was found dead with burn injuries,” said an administrative official. The factory was situated in the midst of a field due to which the impact of the damage was not huge. “Fire tenders were rushed to the spot which took about an hour to douse the flames and in the meantime police are trying to trace the owner of the factory,” official added. In November, an illegal consignment of firecrackers was seized from the area. In July, around 250 quintals of explosives used to makeof crackers were seized. In 2017, a similar explosion had taken place in the area which had left four people dead. Farukhnagar used to be the manufacturing hub for firecrackers until the Supreme Court banned its manufacturing in NCR a few years ago. Since then, residents have been manufacturing it illegally. The administration from time to time have been raiding the area and have been seizing consignments of explosives, but still firecrackers are being manufactured in huge amounts without the knowledge of officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/35-year-old-dies-in-blaze-at-abandoned-firecracker-factory/articleshow/79586832.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 6, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Daily Covid-related deaths in Kerala hit new high of 32||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Fatalities from Covid-19 hit 32 on Saturday, the highest single-day deaths reported in the state to date. It was the second time Covid-related deaths had crossed 30 after the figure had hit 31 on Thursday. The toll has reached 2,390. Meanwhile, 5,848 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state along with 5,820 recoveries. Among the new cases, 5,137 had contracted the virus through local transmission while the sources of infection were untraced in 613 cases and 45 healthcare workers were among the infected. The test positivity rate for the day was 9.7% as 60,503 samples were tested in a 24-hour period. To date, 6,31,615 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Kerala. There are 61,393 active cases in the state. The district-wise Covid count was Malappuram, 920, Kozhikode, 688, Ernakulam, 665, Kottayam, 567, Thrissur, 536, Kollam, 405, Palakkad, 399, Alappuzha, 365, Thiruvananthapuram, 288, Kannur, 280, Wayanad, 258, Pathanamthitta, 208, Idukki, 157 and Kasaragod, 112. Malappuram had the most cases (880) through contacts, followed by Kozhikode, 645, Kottayam, 561, Ernakulam, 509, Thrissur, 518, Kollam, 400, Alappuzha, 338, Wayanad, 246, Kannur, 244, Palakkad, 198, Thiruvananthapuram, 195, Pathanamthitta, 173, Idukki, 121 and Kasaragod, 109. Malappuram also topped the recovery tally with 1,023, followed by Thrissur, 590, Kottayam, 588, and Alappuzha, 551. There are 3,15,024 under isolation in the state, including 2,99,962 under home or institutional quarantine and 15,062 in hospitals. On Saturday, 1,721 persons were hospitalized. The number of hotspots in the state remained at 444 after two areas were added to the list and as many regions were excluded from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/daily-covid-related-deaths-in-kerala-hit-new-high-of-32/articleshow/79587982.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Trio molests girl in Koh-e-fiza; one held, two at large||BHOPAL: Two molestation cases were reported in the city in past 24 hours. A 23-year-old girl was allegedly molested by three youths in Koh-e-fiza locality on Friday night. The trio also assaulted her 14-year-old brother. One of them has been arrested, while two are still at large. Investigating Officer SI Richa Tripathi said that the survivor is a resident of Kohe-fiza locality and she stated in her complaint that on Friday night when she was doing household work, accused Rohit, Bhaiyu and Taufeeq, who reside in her neighbourhood, allegedly barged inside her home and started assaulting her brother. When she intervened to, the accused molested her and misbehaved with her parents. SI Tripathi said that during investigation it came to light that accused used to order survivor’s brother to bring cigarettes and other things for them. On Friday when he refused to go, they barged inside his home and misbehaved with entire family, he added. One of them was arrestedand search is on to nab the others, added SI Tripathi. In the second incident reported at Nishatpura police station, a 17-year-old girl was allegedly molested by a neighbour on Friday afternoon. Investigating Officer SI Urmila Yadav said that the survivor is a resident of Nishantpura locality and she stated in her complaint that, accused, who is suspected to be a minor, resides in the same building, and was stalking her for the past 10 days. SI Yadav said that she informed her parents about the incident a few days ago and her parents counselled the accused. However, on Friday around 3pm, when she was going for her tuition class, the accused allegedly molested her. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-trio-molests-girl-in-koh-e-fiza-one-held-two-at-large/articleshow/79587986.cms||---
December 6, 2020||World||Moscow rolls out Sputnik V Covid shot to most exposed||MOSCOW: Moscow began distributing the Sputnik V Covid-19 shot via 70 clinics on Saturday to the most exposed groups, marking Russia’s first large-scale vaccination against the disease, the city’s coronavirus task force said. The Russian-made vaccine will first be made available to doctors and other medical workers, teachers and social workers because they run the highest risk of exposure to the disease. “You are working at an educational institution and have top-priority for the Covid-19 vaccine, free of charge,” read a phone text message received by one Muscovite, an elementary school teacher, early on Saturday. The head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Kirill Dmitriev, said in an interview with the BBC on Friday that Russia expects to give the vaccine to about 2 million people this month. “Over the first five hours, 5,000 people signed up for the jab — teachers, doctors, social workers, those who are today risking their health and lives the most,” mayor Sergei Sobyanin wrote on his personal website on Friday. Russia has already vaccinated more than 1,00,000 high-risk people, health minister Mikhail Murashko said earlier this week during a separate presentation to the UN about Sputnik V. Moscow, a city of around 13 million people, has been the epicentre of Russia’s outbreak. It reported 7,993 new cases on Saturday, up from 6,868 the day before. The age for those receiving shots is capped at 60. People with certain underlying health conditions, pregnant women and those who have had a respiratory illness for the past two weeks are barred from vaccination. Scientists have raised concerns about the speed at which Russia has worked, giving the regulatory go-ahead for its vaccines and launching mass vaccinations before full trialshad been completed. The Sputnik V vaccine is administered in two injections, with the second dose is expected to be given 21 days after the first. Deputy PM Tatiana Golikova said on Friday that the vaccinated should avoid public places and reduce their intake of medicine and alcohol, which could suppress the immune system, within the first 42 days after the first jab. Watch Moscow begins Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccination drive for most exposed groups||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/moscow-rolls-out-sputnik-v-covid-shot-to-most-exposed/articleshow/79587988.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Barsingha killed in territorial fight with deer at Van Vihar||BHOPAL: A male barasingha has died after a territorial fight with another at Van Vihar national park. The guards recovered the carcass from its enclosure on Friday. A team of vets conducted its post-mortem, which revealed that it died of injuries sustained during the territorial fight, said Van Vihar assistant director Ashok Kumar Jain. In 2015, seven barasinghas were brought to Van Vihar from Kanha Reserve. Their numbers have increased here as the environment suits them and they get good care. As the number of males rose, territorial fights have become common, the director added. Van Vihar is a home to 14 Barasinghas six of whom are male. There are four calves, say officials..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-barsingha-killed-in-territorial-fight-with-deer-at-van-vihar/articleshow/79587991.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||For the love of reading: From pages to screen & back to pages||By Babita Baruah I was the family bookworm when I was in school and early college. Nose buried deep almost all the time, much to the annoyance of my mother — especially when I sat down at the dining table with an open book. Perhaps today, had she been alive, she would have preferred this to the mobile phone obsession that many mothers have to contend with. In those days, I devoured everything I could lay my hands on. I would drop broad hints about my favourite authors when my parents casually checked on what I would like for my birthday. I spent hours in the Digboi Club library on Sundays, I borrowed and exchanged books with friends and even had the ambitious idea of launching my own library out of home — converting an old cupboard into one and inviting friends over to borrow books and enter their name and the date in an old diary. This idea lasted for around two weeks, when my mother reclaimed the cupboard with a stern warning that I should never attempt this again. I had managed only three entries in the diary, one of which was my sister’s. The library idea died a natural death, but my love for reading continued. With time and technology, I got involved with studies, relationships, career, marriage, moving cities and becoming a mother. I embraced the phone, enjoyed small screen entertainment and the books I owned started gathering dust, sitting unloved and untouched. I still bought them once in a while, but they were books on brand management , motivation and leadership, rather than the ones that stirred my imagination and soul. Yes, there were some books that I was convinced I would always have with me wherever I go. Jonathan Livingston Seagull by Richard Bach, The Thorn Birds by Colleen McCollough and The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho. But on the whole, the screens had taken over my life. I never stopped to think about whether I am missing out on anything. Life became one big fast track I was always racing on. The pandemic applied the brakes on many fronts. Changing the way we work, engage, connect and spend our days. Tired of long hours of screen time, I sought respite in my bookshelves. Without realising, I embarked on a journey of exhilarating discoveries. Many unread books, many old favourites that I lovingly thumbed through, reliving moments when I had first read those pages. And I fell in love again, with reading. What brought me back to what I loved so much? Not just the content, not only the authors, not just the image of a filled up bookshelf. There was something more compelling. Reading created an alternate world for me, which quietly moved into my off-work screen time. In the summer of 2020, I would sit cross-legged on the old leather armchair, and read into the night, sometimes oblivious to the power outage and the heat. As the weather cooled down, my books took me outdoors. I would rise up at 5am again, with happiness, as I reached out for my latest read, with the soft sound of my family and pets still sleeping. In December now, I can’t wait to snuggle under my mother’s old shawl in a corner of our house with my current book — A Promised Land by Barack Obama. There are many books still unread. But the stacked titles around me are like posters, lines of inspiration. “Live Lagom”, “Don’t Stop Me Now”, “ Born To Run” “The River of Liquid Gold”, “Women Who Run With The Wolves” are just some of the titles that call out to me with meaning, even though I haven’t read them yet. Books help me escape into a world where I can let my imagination and curiosity run wild. It helps me form perspectives, shape ideas and thoughts. I connect with the authors through their words, their narratives, both fiction and non-fiction. I get under their skin, feel the emotion of their words. At the heart of every writing lies a story always. Stories connect us. But as the year draws to a close, what I am grateful for, above all, is that books have made me increasingly live life in an analog world. From a digital junkie of sorts, I write notes in little books. Pen and paper bring out ideas, stories. I take breaks, go for walks, Tend to my plants. Share time and joy with my family, including four dogs and three cats. I stare at the world as the day breaks, my book in hand, thinking of how I can make things matter at work, and in life. I have learnt to live and cherish each day as a fine balance of analog and digital. {The author is managing partner, GTB India (A WPP unit)}||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/for-the-love-of-reading-from-pages-to-screen-back-to-pages/articleshow/79587024.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Noida||Zurich AG submits master plan of Jewar airport to govt||GREATER NOIDA: Zurich AG, the concessionaire appointed to develop and operate the Jewar international airport, has submitted its master plan to Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL). The special purpose vehicle will go through the plan and also get it vetted by regulatory bodies as well as the Union civil aviation ministry before unveiling the same next year. Having signed the concession agreement with NIAL on October 7, Zurich AG had been given time up to December 6 to submit its master plan and design. Yamuna International Airport Pvt Ltd, a 100% subsidiary of Zurich AG, shared the master plan outlining the development of the airport on Thursday evening. The company will bring in capital investments worth over Rs 5,000 crore. “It will take some time to go through the master plan and building design. It will be forwarded to the UP government as well as the Union government for scrutiny. In case some revision or rectification is required as per the industry norms, Zurich AG will be asked to update the plan,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of NIAL. The master plan will be forwarded to Union ministry of civil aviation, directorate general of civil aviation and Airports Authority of India for further examination and vetting. Once the regulatory bodies and the ministry go through the submissions and provide their feedback to NIAL, Zurich AG will be given the green signal to go ahead with the plan. An officer involved with the process revealed, “While focus is on the plan and design of the first phase, Zurich AG has outlined their development plan over the course of 40 years.” To be developed over 4,752 hectares of land in phases, construction work for the first phase over 1,334 hectares of land shall commence in June-July next year. Officials said that it shall take four to six weeks to ratify the master plan. Since Zurich AG has already got a survey of the terrain, soil and surface of the first phase land done in August, it is waiting for the go ahead to start the hunt for vendors. Earlier Zurich AG officials said that tenders and bids for construction and development of the airport will be issued through the company’s website. Earlier on December 3, the Uttar Pradesh government took a decision to develop a total of five runways at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/zurich-ag-submits-master-plan-of-jewar-airport-to-govt/articleshow/79586758.cms||Shalabh
December 6, 2020||Noida||Noida relaxes payment conditions for obtaining bigger industrial plots||NOIDA: Industrial allottees who are offered plots in Noida’s will no longer have to make one-time payment to secure adjacent unutilised land. The Noida Authority said that money for plots that are 10% bigger than what had been promised could be paid in instalments. The decision will reduce the discomfort of people who have booked industrial plots in the under-construction Phase II of the city. Authority OSD Avinash Tripathi said, “While planning new sectors, at times the layout of a sector has to be revised after development work. Some small chunks that are left between plots are offered to adjacent plot holders. However, money for securing such land has to be paid upfront besides the land premium for the allocated plot. Now half the money will be taken in instalments and the remaining have to be paid upfront.” The Noida Authority is gearing up to add more than 900 acres of land in the Phase II industrial area by the end of this fiscal and is expected to launch a scheme soon to allocate plots in the developing sectors. Since the Authority carries out development work around the time a scheme is launched, factors such as development of roads, drains and sewerage construction alter the size of the plots. “The Authority thrusts extra space on the allottees in case land is left unutilised adjacent to the allocated plots. And allottees were asked to pay up the amount in one go. The allottees got a raw deal in the process,” said an allottee of an industrial plot in Sector 151.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-relaxes-payment-conditions-for-obtaining-bigger-industrial-plots/articleshow/79586770.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Two arrested for stabbing friend to death in Madhya Pradesh's Talaiya; minor still at large||BHOPAL: Two youths were arrested for allegedly stabbing their 24-year-old friend to death over a petty fight in Talaiya locality on Friday night. Another accused — a minor — is still at large. Police said that the deceased identified as Arib Khan, had come to his uncle’s in Bhopal for a wedding. He had his return ticket to Mumbai for December 10. SHO Talaiya SI DP Singh said that the accused identified as Abdul Wahab, 22, Mohammed Ujefa, 21, and the suspected minor boy reside in Budhwara area of Talaiya and were common friends of deceased Arib. They were also relatives. Abdul Wahab works as a tailor while Ujefa works at a computer hardware shop. The minor boy’s father is a hard-core criminal of Bhopal and his elder brother too has crime record. SHO Singh said that three days ago, a dispute took place between Arib and the minor boy over a petty issue, after which Arib grabbed him by his collar. Abdul Wahab and Ujefa pacified the matter then and resolved the dispute. SHO Singh said that on Friday night around 10pm, Arib was standing near a kiosk in Budhwara area, when the trio accused reached the spot and all four began to chit-chat normally. Suddenly, the suspected minor boy started hurling abuses on Arib, and he retaliated. Offended, the minor boy and Abdul Wahab took out their knives and stabbed Arib in the hand and abdomen, while Ujefa held him tight, said police. The trio stabbed him multiple times and left him to bleed. His uncle Tanveer Khan, who happen to pass by, stopped seeing the crowd. He was shocked to see his nephew Arib Khan lying in blood. He rushed him to a hospital, and a few minutes later hhe died while undergoing treatment. SHO Singh said that Abdul Wahab and Ujefa were arrested a few hours later from NCC ground while the suspected minor boy was still on the run. Search was on to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-arrested-for-stabbing-friend-to-death-in-madhya-pradeshs-talaiya-minor-still-at-large/articleshow/79588008.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Indore||Fever clinic footfall dips in Indore||INDORE: Fever clinics across Indore district reported a slight decline in footfall at their out-patient departments in November,. The fever clinics diagnosed 43,402 patients in November, which was around 0.9% lower than 43,799 in October. This led to a lower number of persons diagnosed with Severe Acute respiratory Infection (SARI) and Influenza like illness (ILI) in November compared to October. The doctors at fever clinics only detected 3,760 people cumulatively with SARI or ILI in November. This happened despite the district adding one more fever clinic and increasing their timings. Civil surgeon and fever clinics in-charge Dr Santosh Verma said, “The first couple of weeks in November reported very less number of infections. But, in post Deepawali period, the footfall started to rise drastically and after November 18, when timings were increased, maximum people came to the fever clinics”. The figures, however, revealed that samplings at fever clinics increased and remained at its highest mark in November since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. The authorities collected over 27,200 samples in November, which was 4.5% higher than October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/fever-clinic-footfall-dips-in-indore/articleshow/79588003.cms||Antriksh Singh
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||The legend of Lala Hardaul revisited||BHOPAL: The story of Orchha prince Lala Hardaul has been narrated several times on various platforms, yet it remains evergreen. A play on ‘Lala Hardaul’ staged at Ravindra Bhavan on Saturday, already had the audience expecting nothing short of best. Scripted by Kalyan Jain and directed by Balendra Singh, it moved the audience with its emotional appeal. The adorable prince died centuries ago, yet he remains alive in the hearts of Bundelkhandi people, who worship him as a deity. Legend has it that Hardaul was the nephew of Aalha and Udal, whose valiant stories are narrated with great passion till date by Bundelkhandi singers. An innocent man, who worshipped his bhabhi like a mother, he was accused of adultery with her by his own stepbrother and willingly accepted the poison offered to him as a punishment, despite being innocent. Centuries after his death, people of Bundelkhand still believe that he attends every wedding and lends a helping hand to bride and groom’s parents. The play had the right balance of refined acting, deft direction and subtle lighting effects that did justice to this all-time classic. “I had heard about the legend of Lala Hardaul but to watch the entire story unfold live, was an eclectic experience,” said Indu Saxena, a theatre buff. Dinkar Sahu, an entrepreneur said, “Most of the historic plays tend to go overboard, but it was nice to see the actors keep it subtle and it made more relatable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/the-legend-of-lala-hardaul-revisited/articleshow/79588017.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
December 6, 2020||World||In a first, US CDC recommends using masks indoors when not at home||NEW YORK : Americans should be wearing a mask indoors whenever they’re outside their own home, the US CDC is recommending for the first time as Covid-19 surges across the country. The recommendations place high priority on keeping schools open, saying schools should be both “the last settings to close” and “the first to reopen” because of the critical role they play in providing meals and support services to children. Closures take a disproportionate toll on low-income families, the agency noted. Officials warned that eating at indoor restaurants was one of the “particularly high-risk scenarios”. The CDC urged communities to require face coverings on mass transit and to expand routine screening to identify asymptomatic individuals, who are responsible for about 50% of transmissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/in-a-first-us-cdc-recommends-using-masks-indoors-when-not-at-home/articleshow/79588011.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bhopal||Two booked for molesting spa employee in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A 19-year-old girl, who joined as a receptionist at a spa centre in Kolar, was allegedly molested on the first day of job by a 45-yearold man after locking the room from inside. The spa owner allegedly pressurised the woman to go into the client’s room on the pretext of keeping a towel. The woman raised an alarm and rushed out. Cops acting on her complaint registered a case on charges of molestation against the accused and the spa owner and arrested the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/two-booked-for-molesting-spa-employee-in-bhopal/articleshow/79588037.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Fortnight after Covaxin shot, Haryana minister Anil Vij tests Covid-19 positive||AMBALA: Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19, just a fortnight after he volunteered for and was administered a trial dose of Bharat Biotech’s indigenously developed Covaxin. He was scheduled to get a second shot of the Covid-19 vaccine on December 18, exactly 28 days after the first one on November 20. “I have been tested corona positive. I am admitted to Civil Hospital Ambala Cantt. All those who have come in close contact to me are advised to get themselves tested for corona,” Vij tweeted. On Friday night, he had complained of body pain and fever. A Covid-19 test was conducted on Saturday morning with a rapid antigen testing kit and the result was positive. “After that, we collected his RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) samples and he tested positive again. The minister had undergone an RT-PCR test three days ago at the MLA Hostel in Chandigarh. He had then tested negative,” Ambala chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Kuldeep Singh said. Vaccine efficacy known only after 14 days of second dose: Bharat BiotechBharat Biotech clarified that the vaccine had been designed to be efficacious only after participants in trials received two doses 28 days apart. Without referring to Vij, the company issued a statement mentioning that “vaccine efficacy will be determined only after 14 days of receiving the second dose”. The Hyderabad-headquartered company also said its trials were “double blinded and randomised”, implying that 50% of the volunteers receive Covaxin doses and the remaining half only a placebo – basically a substance or treatment that is designed to have no therapeutic value. The participants, investigators and the company don't know who is assigned to which group, Biotech had spelt out at the commencement of the trials in mid-November. Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech along with the Indian Council of Medical Research, is currently undergoing efficacy studies involving 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites across the country. Doctors at PGIMS Rohtak said Vij testing positive for Covid-19 wouldn’t impact the ongoing Phase III trials. The minister was the first volunteer. “Any volunteer who is part of a trial needs to maintain all precautions related to the virus 42 days from the first dose of the vaccine. If a volunteer comes in contact with any infected person or does not take precautions like wearing masks, washing hands and social distancing, it is likely he will contract the virus,” Dr Pushpa Dahiya, medical superintendent of PGIMS Rohtak, told TOI. On whether Vij could still get a second dose of Covaxin, she said that based on the norms for vaccine trials, infected volunteers were not supposed to be given any further shot. “But we continue our procedure of following a volunteer for one year to study the level of antibodies,” she added. The Haryana minister, Dahiya clarified, wasn’t the first person to get infected after being administered one dose of a trial vaccine. Some other cases of similar nature have been reported across the country, she said. Dr Ramesh Verma of PGIMS said, “It takes about 42 days after the first dose of vaccine to develop enough antibodies in a person’s body. In the case of minister Anil Vij, it's been just 15 days since the first dose.” Vaccine efficacy known only after 14 days of second dose: Bharat BiotechBharat Biotech clarified that the vaccine had been designed to be efficacious only after participants in trials received two doses 28 days apart. Without referring to Vij, the company issued a statement mentioning that “vaccine efficacy will be determined only after 14 days of receiving the second dose”. The Hyderabad-headquartered company also said its trials were “double blinded and randomised”, implying that 50% of the volunteers receive Covaxin doses and the remaining half only a placebo – basically a substance or treatment that is designed to have no therapeutic value. The participants, investigators and the company don't know who is assigned to which group, Biotech had spelt out at the commencement of the trials in mid-November. Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech along with the Indian Council of Medical Research, is currently undergoing efficacy studies involving 26,000 volunteers at 25 sites across the country. Doctors at PGIMS Rohtak said Vij testing positive for Covid-19 wouldn’t impact the ongoing Phase III trials. The minister was the first volunteer. “Any volunteer who is part of a trial needs to maintain all precautions related to the virus 42 days from the first dose of the vaccine. If a volunteer comes in contact with any infected person or does not take precautions like wearing masks, washing hands and social distancing, it is likely he will contract the virus,” Dr Pushpa Dahiya, medical superintendent of PGIMS Rohtak, told TOI. On whether Vij could still get a second dose of Covaxin, she said that based on the norms for vaccine trials, infected volunteers were not supposed to be given any further shot. “But we continue our procedure of following a volunteer for one year to study the level of antibodies,” she added. The Haryana minister, Dahiya clarified, wasn’t the first person to get infected after being administered one dose of a trial vaccine. Some other cases of similar nature have been reported across the country, she said. Dr Ramesh Verma of PGIMS said, “It takes about 42 days after the first dose of vaccine to develop enough antibodies in a person’s body. In the case of minister Anil Vij, it's been just 15 days since the first dose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/fortnight-after-covaxin-shot-haryana-minister-anil-vij-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/79588024.cms||JK Singh
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||More Mumbaikars taking flu shot this year with fear of pandemic||MUMBAI: While the focus is mainly on the upcoming Covid-19 vaccine, a quiet change is taking place in the city's inoculation habits: Doctors say there is an increase in Mumbaikars taking the seasonal flu shot this year. More children and elderly, especially those with chronic health conditions such as diabetes, COPD and asthma, are taking the vaccine due to Covid fear. Pediatrician Dr Suresh Birajdar from Motherhood Hospital, Kharghar, said his team gave 500 flu shots to children under five in October-November 2019. "This year, we administered more than 1,000 in the same period," he said. Children vaccinated at Bai Jerbai Wadia Hospital for Children, Parel, also increased this year. Medical director Dr Shakuntala Prabhu said, "All children below five are recommended flu vaccines as per Indian Academy of Pediatrics guidelines. This year, we gave more flu shots: From 104 between September-November 2019, we gave 214 children this year so far." While seasonal flu or influenza that begins in winter is usually equated with fever and cold in India, it kills half a million people across the world every year. It affects 5-10% adults and 20-30% children. Pharmaceutical firms making the flu vaccine said uptake had gone up this year, but did not share numbers. Stating that Covid-19 contributed to increased awareness on vaccination, and especially adult immunization across board, Annapurna Das, country head, Sanofi Pasteur India, said, "We are experiencing higher vaccination rates since October, when the flu season started in India." Covid-19 has killed over 10,000 Mumbaikars in seven months. Sarita Pai (name changed), a 35-year-old advertising professional who is prone to flu attacks every year, said she and her elderly parents got vaccinated this year. "My parents have diabetes and heart disease and the doctor felt they will be safer if protected against seasonal flu,'' she said. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Shrivastav, also a member of the state government's taskforce on Covid-19, said, "For people with chronic diseases and elderly, the flu vaccine is highly advisable.'' He gives the flu vaccine to 1,200 every year. "Inquiries for flu vaccine increased too," said Dr Shrivastav. Das said Covid has shown what the world looks like without a vaccine. "Covid-19 increases co-morbidities around respiratory diseases and underscores benefits of influenza vaccination, especially for vulnerable population. Also, by protecting oneself against influenza, one reduces the burden on India's healthcare systems for influenza-related illness and complications," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/more-mumbaikars-taking-flu-shot-this-year-with-fear-of-pandemic/articleshow/79588038.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Of nearly 1.2 lakh railway passengers arriving in Mumbai, 33 test positive||BMC tested over one lakh passengers arriving by trains at major junctions in the city. Of nearly 1.2 lakh passengers tested on Saturday, 33 tested positive for Covid-19. Passengers were tested at CSTM, Mumbai Central, Dadar, LTT Kurla, Bandra Terminus and Borivli. Those who test positive, depending on severity of symptoms, were admitted to Covid care centres or hospitals. Due to increasing cases in Delhi, Goa, Gujarat and Rajasthan, BMC made it mandatory for passengers arriving here to carry a negative report. The test must be done 72 hours prior to reaching Mumbai. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said tests at airport are being done by MIAL the airport operator, and no road check-posts are in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/of-nearly-1-2-lakh-railway-passengers-arriving-in-mumbai-33-test-positive/articleshow/79588043.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 'Team BMC can claim that it has arrested the march of Covid-19'||By: I S Chahal Once the first Covid case was detected in Mumbai in mid-March, it appeared that Covid would march relentlessly through the metropolis. Spreading like wildfire in March and April in slums in Dharavi, Deonar Bainganwadi, Govandi, Ghatkopar and Worli Koliwada, the death rate touched 8%. In the first week of May, few dead bodies were found on the streets and on road dividers. The situation seemed visibly out of control. Even social media was flooded with videos of corpses on the road or on hospital beds next to alive patients. The Government of India's monitoring team expressed fears that the city would see thousands of casualties due to mismanagement. Critics demanded that Mumbai be handed over to the Army to combat Covid. It was the country's hotspot. It was against this background that I took over as Municipal Commissioner, Mumbai, on May 8. Early morning, the very next day, I walked into ICUs of major BMC hospitals to take stock of ground realities and followed it up with a 4-km march in containment zones of Dharavi. I identified pillars on which Covid had to be fought: Testing discipline, ambulances, bed availability, abundance of doctors/paramedicals with focus on testing, tracing, tracking, quarantine and treatment. In the next 10 weeks, a huge increase in health infrastructure was ensured under MCGM. The number of Covid beds was raised from 3,700 on May 8 to 22,300, and ICU beds from 480 to 1,957. It was made mandatory for Covid test results to be available in 24 hours. Health workers entered slums and containment zones for door-to-door surveillance and testing. More than one million RT-PCR tests (the gold standard) were done in Mumbai. There was a 10-fold increase in ambulances from 80 to 826; they are available on Uber on call and free of cost. More than 1,000 doctors and paramedicals were hired from among retired government staff. Around 900 MBBS interns were deployed. The Covid fight was decentralized, with each of the 24 civic wards acting independently. With an aggressive 'Chase The Virus' policy, lakhs of highrisk contacts were shifted from slums to institutional quarantine and 48,000 quarantine beds were created. Decentralised hospital bed management with real-time online dashboards proved a game-changer in bed allotment. Senior IAS officers were appointed in hospitals to supervise operations. Mumbai became the first city in India to regulate beds in 35 major and 73 other private hospitals at government rates. Nine centrally air-conditioned jumbo field hospitals with ICU and dialysis beds were established; Mumbai was the first in India to build and operate them. Walk-in facilities were created all over the city to treat suspected patients without test reports. Dashboards were made for updates on crematorium status. 'Mission - Save Lives' lowered the mortality rate from 8% to under 2%. Compensation of Rs 50 lakh for deceased MCGM/BEST staff not covered under the Government of India insurance scheme for frontline Covid workers was implemented. A 'My Family, My Responsibility' campaign was run for two months, with more than 12,000 health workers reaching out to 3.5 million families in Mumbai twice for surveillance and check-ups. A 'No Mask, No Entry' campaign was launched, with hoardings and stickers on bus-stops, buses, taxis and offices displaying the message. This campaign included fining more than 5 lakh people for not wearing masks. iPads were distributed to admitted Covid patients with wi-fi facilities for interaction between them and relatives to address psychological issues. As on November 24, the total active cases fell to 9,770 (lowest ever), doubling rate increased to 218 days, rate of infection dropped to 0.30%, positivity was down to 6%, monthly mortality rate dipped to 2%, discharges were at 92%. Despite the festivals of Dussehra and Diwali, the Covid situation has not deteriorated in Mumbai. Team MCGM has risen to the occasion and it resolves not to be complacent as the war is far from over. However, Team BMC can claim that it has arrested the relentless march of Covid, making Mumbai one of the safest metropolises in the country. (The writer is a senior IAS officer posted as BMC commissioner)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-team-bmc-can-claim-that-it-has-arrested-the-march-of-covid-19/articleshow/79588059.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Amritsar||Agri agitation has created history: Punjabi singer Diljit Dosanjh at Singhu border||BATHINDA: Punjabi actor and singer Diljit Dosanjh on Saturday reached Singhu border to support farmer protest. Amid big applause, Dosanjh termed the protest as a historic that will be remembered as “tales of courage”. He also took a dig at the media for not widely covering the protest. While addressing a big gathering at the Delhi border, Diljit said, “I am here today to listen, not to speak. This protest has created history. We used to hear stories that filled us with courage. Now history is being repeated as the stories of this struggle will be told to the future generations as to how the farmer struggle created history.” He added, “We we used to hear that the victories are achieved with contentment and satisfaction and farmers have amply showcased it by remaining peaceful and this is due to wise leadership by farmers. Those from Haryana, too, have contributed immensely for it. I bow my head before all this as this is exemplary and we rarely see this.” Switching over to Hindi from Punjabi, he said, “I will speak in Hindi for the national media, if they are listening so that they may not have to Google for translation. You can clearly see that only farming talk is being done here and nothing else. There should not be any deviation from real issue. Some things are happening only on Twitter that are twisted, but everything is peaceful here and the entire country is with the farmers. The government should to concede their demands.” Diljit Dosanjh and actor Kangana Ranaut have been in a Twitter war for the last few days. It all started after Kangana’s tweet (which later was deleted) where two pictures were used side by side of Bilkis Bano, also known as ‘dadi of Shaheen Bagh’, and Mohinder Kaur of Fatehgarh Jandia village in Bathinda. The pictures were captioned that Mohinder Kaur was in taking part in the farmers’protest for Rs 100. Angry over it, Diljit accused Kangana of defaming the elderly women and both used derogatory words for each other. A score of Punjabi celebrities supported Diljit in this verbal duel. Speaking to TOI, Kamaljit Singh, a youngster at the Singhu border, said, “We are delighted to see Diljit at the protest where he made it clear that farmers are protesting peacefully and a section of society is defaming them without any reason. By reaching here Diljit showcased concern for farmers and gave advice to the nationasl media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/agri-agitation-has-created-history-punjabi-singer-diljit-dosanjh-at-singhu-border/articleshow/79588065.cms||Neel Kamal
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man arrested for morphing woman's pics, Rs 5 lakh blackmail||MUMBAI: A 45-year-old man has been arrested by the city crime branch for allegedly morphing photographs of a Mumbai-based woman, who was earlier employed with a surrogacy centre in Gujarat, and then blackmailing her and demanding Rs 5 lakh over a past dispute. The city crime arrested the accused on Thursday from his village in Rajasthan and handed him over to Matunga police, which registered an offence under Indian Penal Code sections for outraging the modesty of a woman, making threats and extortion as well as under the Information Technology Act. He has been remanded to police custody. Police said the only connection between the accused and the woman was his live-in girlfriend. A few years ago, when the woman was employed at the surrogacy centre, the accused's girlfriend had approached her as a would-be surrogate mother. Due to some dispute, the process fell through and she blamed the woman for it. This could be a likely reason behind the extortion, said inspector Ninad Sawant of Unit 4, crime branch. "The accused started mailing objectionable photos of hers two-three months ago and started blackmailing her. She even gave him Rs 23,000 and later gathered the courage to file a police complaint."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-man-arrested-for-morphing-womans-pics-rs-5-lakh-blackmail/articleshow/79588078.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 6, 2020||Vadodara||Is it a second coming or just wavelet?||Vadodara: It was feared that a second Covid-19 wave would grip the city and district after the festive season. While the fears came true as the numbers increased, the wave seems to be a ripple that did not lead to major spike in number of new cases registered every day. The number of new cases registered every day that had remained largely between 90 and 95 before Diwali started rising from November 11, when 97 cases were registered. While the number of new cases registered every day even reached three figures, it has not crossed 114 that was the highest number of cases registered after Diwali on November 27. “We believe that we have reached a plateau again like we did before Diwali. The only thing is that the numbers are slightly on a higher side,” said Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) health officer, Dr Devesh Patel. Patel added that one could even say that we were in the first wave itself. Sources said that if numbers had gone significantly down and then went up drastically, it could have been a second wave. “Ideally, we would want the number to go down much below 90, to say that the first wave has ended,” said an official. VMC officials believe that the festive season and rush in the markets, ahead of Diwali, was a major reason why the number did not go down significantly and showed a rise again. They added that relaxed guidelines also ensured that the number did not fall significantly. Patel said that the present restrictions and night curfew have contributed significantly in arresting the rise of cases. “The positivity rate has gone down significantly and our surveys have also revealed that there are few sick people with symptoms similar to Covid-19,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/is-it-a-second-coming-or-just-wavelet/articleshow/79585242.cms||Sachin Sharma
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||No drumroll for brass bands this season as weddings in Mumbai go small and silent||When was the last time you saw neighbourhood uncles and aunties dancing to the tune of popular Bollywood wedding song 'Aaj mere yaar ki shaadi hai' played by a brass band? Not since March 24 this year when pandemic-induced complete lockdown and the subsequent restrictions took the fun out of the fat weddings. Music in marriage parties is missing even as the brass band players who accompanied the decked up raths or carriages carrying dulha-dulhan and baraatis sit idle, anxious and angry. At the tiny office of Mumbai-Thane Brass Band Welfare Association office at Jambli Naka in Thane the Association president Ram More sits worried. He says playing at the brass band is the only skill he and his two brothers, Navnath and Babasaheb, inherited from their father. "This has been in the family for the last 50 years. We never learnt anything else. Playing band instruments is not just our profession, it is our life," says More, ordering two cups of tea from the tiny tea shop next door. "The government is not bothered about us." Sachin Prabhakar Jagtap who owns Shreshth India Brass Band at Chembur chimes in with more clarity. He explains that wedding receptions, with 50 guests now, are allowed but wedding bands, comprising even just 10 players, are not allowed. "We have sent letters to the collectors of Mumbai and Thane, requesting them to allow us to play as our members are on the verge of starvation. We are yet to get the permission," says Jagtap. There are around 100 or so brass bands in Mumbai and Thane who render services at weddings, funerals, opening of establishments, jayantis or birth anniversaries of deities (Shiva Jayanti on March 12 was the last time they worked this year), urs and melas at mausoleums or dargahs of Sufi saint and even on funerals. "We are needed at occasions ranging from birthdays to funerals. We entertain people and mourn with them too. Yet we are being treated as we don't exist," complains Vinod Shiv Sagar, the Association's secretary and proprietor of New Brass Band in Chembur. November-December, the band players say, are the time when they used to work back-to-back. Wedding season is the time when these bands, clad in colourful uniforms, playing bugles, trumpets and dhol, add flavour to sight and sound of baraatis progressing slowly to brides' places or wedding venues. "All other features of a marriage like rath, ghodi (mare), lights, pundits' chants are feeka (tasteless and dull) without us. Baraatis and bride-groom remember us for our enthusiastic rendition of immensely romantic songs like Hamein to loot liya milke husn walon ne..," says Naresh Sada Shivale, the Association's chief advisor. He says on some occasions these bands play tunes of patriotic songs like 'Yeh desh veer jawanon ka' and 'Mere desh ki dharti sona ugle' too to pay tribute to martyrs and celebrate our soldiers' bravery. Yet, adds Shivale, recently a bank refused him loans, saying "there is no income in months in your account." "Where will we get the income when we have been jobless for the last eight months," he rues. A few minutes' walk from the Association office in Thane is the marriage registry office. More, the president, says in the last few weeks he has seen couples come, get their marriages registered, visit a nearby temple and attend receptions at a famous hotel in the vicinity. "We have seen all these proceedings with a sense of loss. We don't crave sumptuous meals. We just want our jobs back," says More. Band players have never seen such a desultory time in decades. Their bands desperately need the old normal back to break their silence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-drumroll-for-brass-bands-this-season-as-weddings-in-mumbai-go-small-and-silent/articleshow/79588094.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
December 6, 2020||World||Argentina to tax rich to boost its economy||NEW DELHI: Argentina’s Congress approved a wealth tax on Friday that will impose a one-off levy on people with large fortunes as the government of the nation tries to boost revenue hit by the pandemic. The law stipulates a tax of 2% on people with assets of over 200 million pesos ($2.6 million), with the government aiming to collect $3.7 billion. Proceeds will be used to buy equipment to fight Covid, assist small firms and poor localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/argentina-to-tax-rich-to-boost-its-economy/articleshow/79588096.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Juhu builder killed to take over SRA project: Charge-sheet||MUMBAI: Builder Ashok Chajaad hatched a conspiracy with arrested Peshkar brothers killed a Juhu builder and take over the Junaid Nagar SRA project in Andheri, the charge-sheet has stated. It added that he gave the contract of killing the builder for a Rs 5 crore flat and a fixed monthly sum to the accused. City crime branch, probing the murder Munaf Shaikh, filed a 1,800-page charge-sheet against five accused before MCOCA court. There are 112 witnesses and two witnesses who recorded statements under 164 CrPC before a magistrate. Police arrested Nadeem Shaikh, who stabbed Munaf to death, Sonu alias Abdul Rahman, who connived with local developer Khalil Peshkar, his brother Naseem and son Waseem alias Munna Tanker. Last month, police arrested builder Ashok Chaajad after it transpired that he was the brain behind the murder. Munaf was stabbed while on his way to Irla mosque early on August 9. Police had initially arrested Nadeem. During interrogation, it transpired Sonu alias Abdul Rehman and Munna Tanker were behind the murder. Police arrested the duo, who spilled the beans on Peshkars. Peshkars revealed that the contract to kill Munaf was given by Chaajad, the chargesheet said. "Chaajad was only the beneficiary. Peshkars, who had a criminal background, jumped into the picture after Chaajad lured them with the flat and a monthly sum,'' said inspector Nandkumar Gopale. Police said the murder was a fallout of redevelopment of a slum rehabilitation project at Zunaid Nagar in Andheri. They said the project started in 1995 but later got stuck. Police said there was also some high court reservations, which Chaajad and other partners fought, but the developer's financial condition was not good. Chaajad got scared that Munaf would take over the project, so he hatched a criminal conspiracy with Sonu and Peshkars to kill him, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/juhu-builder-killed-to-take-over-sra-project-charge-sheet/articleshow/79588109.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Sex assault: Kid 'tutored', kin acquitted||MUMBAI: Finding that a 13-year-old girl, with low IQ, had been "tutored", a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court acquitted her 28-year-old brother-in-law who had been accused of sexually assaulting her in 2015. The girl had started living in a children's home much after the alleged incident. During counselling sessions, she purportedly revealed it to a social worker. The child admitted in court that she had been tutored. "In normal course, an incident of sexual assault will leave an impact on the mind and body of a girl, even if she is not good at studies. The sexual assault act will not be forgotten by a child, even when child grows. It is not required for the counsellor to get it memorized and glued it into the child's memory, as seen done here," the court said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sex-assault-kid-tutored-kin-acquitted/articleshow/79588114.cms||---
December 6, 2020||World||Joe Biden won’t make vaccine mandatory||NEW DELHI: President-elect Joe Biden said on Friday he would not make the vaccines for Covid-19 mandatory but hoped the public would develop confidence in them over time. “I wouldn’t demand it to be mandatory, but I would do everything in my power just like I don’t think masks have to be made mandatory nationwide,” Biden said. He is expected to name Jeff Zients, a co-chair of his transition and a former Obama economic aide, as his coronavirus “czar” , according to a source. He also said plans for his inauguration next month were being developed with safety in mind. He doesn’t expect the traditional parade or crowds, he said, although there might be a public swearing-in along with more virtual activity. On Friday, US set single-day record with 2,35,272 infections, over onethird of all global cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-wont-make-vaccine-mandatory/articleshow/79588113.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Ghaziabad||BKU leader’s tractor drive to talks venue stopped||GHAZIABAD: Like the last eight days, Saturday’s protests by farmers at UP Gate had their share of drama. It began with the man heading the protest — senior Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait — and some supporters trying to cross over to Delhi in a tractor for the fifth round of talks with the Centre for a resolution to the deadlock over the new farm laws that has thousands of farmers camping at the capital’s borders. But Delhi Police did not allow them to do so. When repeated appeals cut no ice with the cops, Tikait and his aides headed towards the capital in an SUV. Later in the day, UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu arrived at the protest site to show solidarity with the farmers. But he had to leave soon after the farmers told him they did not want their cause to be “politicised”. “If you are so concerned about our plight, you should sit here along with us, braving this December chill and other such difficulties. Parties and leaders are only interested in politicising the matter. We can’t allow our cause to be diluted like this,” said Ramdhar Singh, a farmer camping at UP Gate. Lallu isn’t the first politician to visit the UP Gate protest site — Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad had met the protesters earlier in the week. In another part of the protest site at UP Gate on Saturday, a group of farmers from Punjab burnt an effigy of actor Kangana Ranaut for social media comments that were construed to be against the farmers’ cause. A police team present at the spot doused the flames. However, the decision to burn the effigy did not go down well with another group of BKU farmers a little ahead on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. “We disassociate ourselves from such kind of rhetoric and action. These are an attempt by a few to digress from the real issue,” a BKU leader shouted from a makeshift podium along the DME. Late in the evening, a statement issued by BKU said the fifth round of talks that had been held with the government in Delhi had failed to end the deadlock. A fresh round of meetings will now be held on December 9, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/bku-leaders-tractor-drive-to-talks-venue-stopped/articleshow/79587432.cms||Abhijay Jha
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||'Bank employee' who duped Mumbai businessman of Rs 6 lakh with KYC info held||MUMBAI: A member of a gang that cheated people of their money by posing as bank officials and taking banking details (KYC) from people was arrested on Friday. Gangadhar Dukhan Mandal had called up from Jharkhand and duped a garment trader from Mumbai of Rs 6 lakh last week. The trader, Maqbool Ahmed, had lodged a complaint about a phone call in which a man claimed he was an employee of a nationalised bank. He told Maqbool that the bank was to merge with another bank and his debit card would be terminated for some time. To pre-empt difficulty, Maqbool asked the man how he could avoid this. The caller told him to share all KYC details so that he could ensure that the debit card service is uninterrupted. Maqbool also shared an OTP he received soon after. "Through this, the caller got a mirror image of Maqbool's phone," said a police official. Within minutes, Maqubool received text messages from his bank that Rs 5.84 lakh was debited. to his account. Senior inspector of Wadala police station, Shailash Paswalwar, said that the caller switched off his phone soon after. "With technical help, we tracked the caller to Dumka district in Jharkhand. We sent a team and after three days we arrested Mandalfrom Dumka district in Jharkhand," said Paswalwar. The police are on the lookout for his accomplices. He said despite requests from banks and the police not to part with OTPs, people fall prey to such fraudsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bank-employee-who-duped-mumbai-businessman-of-rs-6-lakh-with-kyc-info-held/articleshow/79588126.cms||Ahmed Ali
December 6, 2020||World||Resolution of Gulf dispute seems ‘within reach’: Saudi||DUBAI/ ROME: Saudi Arabia’s foreign minister said on Friday a resolution to a bitter dispute with Qatar seemed “within reach” after Kuwait announced progress towards ending a row that Washington says hampers a united Gulf front against Iran. The US and Kuwait have worked to end the dispute, during which Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Egypt have imposed a diplomatic, trade and travel embargo on Qatar since mid-2017. US President Trump’s senior adviser Jared Kushner had held talks in Doha on Wednesday following a visit to Saudi Arabia. “We have made significant progress in the last few days thanks to the continuing efforts of Kuwait but also thanks to strong support from President Trump,” Saudi foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud said. “We hope this progress can lead to a final agreement which looks within reach and I can say I am somewhat optimistic.” A source in Washington said a tentative deal had been reached by the parties and that it could be signed in a few weeks. “They’re working towards taking what’s an agreement in principle and getting it actually signed,” the source said on condition of anonymity. Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmad al-Sabah on Friday welcomed the developments, state-run news agency Kuna said. It quoted him as saying “this agreement has shown that all concerned parties are keen on retaining the pan-Gulf and the pan-Arab solidarity, unity, and stability”. US secretary of state Mike Pompeo said that the US was “very hopeful” that the dispute would be resolved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/resolution-of-gulf-dispute-seems-within-reach-saudi/articleshow/79588138.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Plea in HC seeks strict scrutiny for EWS certificates||MUMBAI: A public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a "stringent scrutinising mechanism" to award EWS (economically weaker section) certificates has been filed in the Bombay high court's Aurangabad bench. Stating that several candidates have obtained EWS certificates by submitting incorrect, false or fraudulent information, the petition has sought the formation of "a special committee to scrutinise claims of candidates seeking reservations for admissions and in employment on the basis of the EWS certificates already issued". It also sought cancellation of admissions and appointments awarded to candidates whose certificates are found to be fraudulently obtained. The petitioner, Kedar Thatte from Aurangabad, is seeking an interim relief for admissions to educational courses in the academic year 2020-21 to be done under the EWS quota only after scrutiny of claims. "Submission of income tax returns of both parents of students claiming the EWS quota should be mandatory during admissions," said the petition. A central government notification has said economically weaker sections will be notified by the state from time to time on the basis of family income and other indicators of economic disadvantage. Based on this, the state had issued a government resolution on February 12, 2019, providing the rules for availing the benefit under the quota. In the GR, the state notified the scrutiny process. It "merely considers the family income of the applicant and does not provide for a fact-finding mechanism to truly test his economic status," mentioned the petition. "It is based on a mere affidavit." The petitioner's advocate, Shrirang Choudhary, told TOI many people have made fraudulent claims on the basis of income certificates by suppressing factual information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-plea-in-hc-seeks-strict-scrutiny-for-ews-certificates/articleshow/79588152.cms||Yogita Rao
December 6, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sardar Patel’s war on Ahmedabad plague first propped him as able leader||AHMEDABAD: Covid-19 pandemic has hit Ahmedabad the hardest in Gujarat but it’s not the first pandemic battled by the city. The erstwhile textile hub has survived plague and influenza (Spanish Flu) in the past 100 years. In fact, it was the handling of plague by Vallabhbhai Patel that marked his foray into public life much before he became ‘Sardar.’ The recently-published book ‘The Age of Pandemics’ by Chinmay Tumbe, assistant professor of economics at IIM Ahmedabad (IIM-A) gives an insight into the early 20th century plague pandemic in Ahmedabad and response of the then administration. While plague was persistent in western India since 1897, it’s major outbreak was recorded in Ahmedabad in a big way only in 1917, mentions the book. Patel had only just then become a member of the Ahmedabad Municipality and was the chairman of the Sanitation Committee. While most people, including officials, were fleeing the city, Patel moved with the municipality staff to work on the ground and earned plaudits for managing the crisis well,” said Prof Chinmay Tumbe. “He was back in action again during the Borsad plague outbreak in the 1930s. But the Ahmedabad plague of 1917 could be seen as the starting point of Patel’s remarkable career in public service.” Giving a snapshot of the impact of plague on Ahmedabad, Prof Tumbe said that the 1917 Ahmedabad plague had the same impact as the 1897 Bombay plague or the 2020 Covid crisis – it led to a massive reverse migration. “This was a period of high wartime demand for goods – as World War I was raging during that time –and the factories were severely short-staffed. So, the mill owners of Ahmedabad had to give huge concessions to workers to enable them to stay on,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sardar-patels-war-on-ahmedabad-plague-first-propped-him-as-able-leader/articleshow/79588156.cms||Parth Shastri
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Cable operator, son nabbed for false complaints in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Mankhurd police on Friday arrested a cable operator and his son for lodging two false complaints of attempt to murder to fixed rivals. Police arrested Rajesh Thakur alias Sharma and his son Akshay and are looking for some others who narrated the same story to police. Thakur complained to police that Vivek, Yogesh and Akash (surname withheld) fired two rounds at him and fled in Mankhurd on December 3. Police registered an attempt to murder case and an offence under Arms Act against three persons. Police said it was the second time Thakur lodged a complaint. On October 5, he complained of threats, naming rivals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cable-operator-son-nabbed-for-false-complaints-in-mumbai/articleshow/79588168.cms||S Ahmed Ali
December 6, 2020||World||UK, EU agree to restart stalled Brexit talks||LONDON:"Post-Brexit trade discussions between the European Union and the UK will resume on Sunday following a pause in negotiations in light of their inability to bridge an array of differences, Britain's prime minister and the head of the EU’s executive branch said. In a joint statement on Saturday following a phone call between them, British PM Boris Johnson and European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said “a further effort” should be undertaken by their respective negotiating teams to assess whether the “significant differences” can be resolved. The pair noted the areas of division on the issues of fishing rights, the “level playing field” — the standards the UK must meet to export into EU — and how future disputes are resolved. “Both sides underlined that no agreement is feasible if these issues are not resolved,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-eu-agree-to-restart-stalled-brexit-talks/articleshow/79588189.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: APMC onion at Rs 15 per kg||NAVI MUMBAI: Onion prices have dropped to Rs 15-25 per kg now from the Rs 30-40 per kg a few days ago at the APMC wholesale market. A surge in arrivals from local producers and imports from Turkey, Iran and Egypt is responsible. The fresh crop has started arriving to tide over the supply deficit of the past couple of months, which had pushed retail prices to Rs 100 per kg. Retail prices are also falling slowly now. "Following the arrival of fresh crops from various parts of Maharashtra after a shortfall in supplies due to rains and increase in volume of imports, besides the continued ban on exports, onion prices have dipped steadily at the APMC market yard. But we are sceptical about further lowering of prices as the onion producing areas witnessed poor production due to heavy rains during the harvesting time," APMC director Ashok Walunj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-apmc-onion-at-rs-15-per-kg/articleshow/79588190.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Ghamroj bund ‘damaged’ by NHAI, HSPCB, forest dept to inspect site||GURUGRAM: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and the forest department are planning to conduct a joint inspection of Ghamroj bund along Sohna Road on December 8. This inspection will be carried out to investigate the alleged illegal excavation and demolition of the bund, as well as construction on part of it by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to build rest area/parking bay for the trucks and buses for a toll plaza on Sohna Road, also called NH-248A. NHAI allegedly carried out construction on the bund without mandatory nod from the irrigation department under the Canal and Drainage Act, and in violation of the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) guidelines. The move comes after the NGT on November 12 directed HSPCB to take appropriate action within a month in this regard. The tribunal was hearing a plea by resident Prem Mohan Gaur in this regard. HSPCB officials, however, said NHAI has sent them records of approval for work on the bund. “The NHAI project director has submitted a letter and endorsed the fact that the bund was found disturbed, but it has been restored. Further, we have already received documents from the forest department stating that NHAI has obtained permission for forest land diversion and felling trees. NHAI has also applied for a no-objection certificate to the irrigation department along with a proposal for the exit of water at Ghamroj bund and it is under process. A joint inspection is pending, which will be conducted on December 8,” said a senior HSPCB official. Apart from the inspection, the additional deputy commissioner has also directed executive engineers of Nuh division, irrigation department to visit the site with NHAI officials and the town planner and submit a factual report by December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ghamroj-bund-damaged-by-nhai-hspcb-forest-dept-to-inspect-site/articleshow/79586836.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 6, 2020||Noida||150 farmers trying to march to Delhi detained on Yamuna Expressway||NOIDA: Amid ‘Dilli Chalo’ call to protest against the new farm laws, around 150 farmers were detained at the Zero point of the Yamuna expressway for trying to march towards the national capital on Saturday. The incident took place when the farmers, affiliated to Kisan Ekta Sangh, from across Gautam Budh Nagar and other districts of western UP, including Bulandshahr, Aligarh, and even Faridabad gathered to march towards the national capital. However, when they reached the zero point, they were stopped by police. The farmers then attempted to cross the barricades following which the police swung into action and dragged them into buses. Around 25 women said they were manhandled by women constables. “The constables beat us up. What kind of justice is this? Many of us got injured,” said Geeta Bhati, Mahila Morcha president. As the clash became intense, an officer was videographed pleading before Geeta as she alleged that the police misbehaved with her. “The three farm bills have been imposed upon us. There is no promise on MSP. Farmers sitting on the Delhi border have been beaten and tear gas shells have been bombarded on them,” said national coordinator of Kisan Ekta Sangh, Bali Singh. The farmers were taken to the Surajpur police lines in a bus where they raised slogans against the government. Singh said they will again attempt to march to Delhi. On the other hand, hundreds of farmers were stopped by police at the Jewar toll. Next, they sat in protest at the spot. Meanwhile, opposition parties have extended their support to the protesting farmers. Six Congress leaders were detained by police while they tried to move towards the Ghazipur border to support the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/150-farmers-trying-to-march-to-delhi-detained-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79587437.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Digital makeover turns back time on Ajanta's 5th century murals||The idea of digital technology to resurrect a 5th century painting might seem a bit odd at first but the creative effects of such anachronism can occasionally be startling. Twenty nine years after photographer and art historian Benoy Behl stepped into the dark recesses of the Ajanta and revealed its cave paintings as it had never been revealed before when he used low-light photography to capture the murals in its true details and colours, the 65-year-old has managed to turn back time on Ajanta's ancient murals - digitally repairing the ravages of time, blunders of less competent restorers and damages inflicted by the occasional visitor - to arrive at the first of its kind images of what they would have looked like when they were first painted 1500 years ago, without actually tampering with the original works. "It was with deep sensitivity to the art and its history that I embarked on this work using basic imaging tools already around for very many years," explained Behl, admitting his apprehensions before taking on the task. "Because originality of the artist is important and physical work should never be disturbed," said Behl stressing that even digital restoration of photographs of the paintings must be treated as a "sacred task" where one must not impose themselves. "Subsequently, I took it on not as a technical exercise but as something that felt necessary for the sake of history. There has been more environmental impact upon the paintings and consequently more fading of the art, since the time I photographed them in 1992." It took Behl and his team five years to complete the project this September. Carried out in Behl's office in south Delhi and funded by himself, the digital rejuvenation wasn't about playing with filters and settings but investigating the damage incurred by each piece, studying their provenance and using the digital brush to undo blemishes, paint losses and layers of dust and grime on Ajanta's fading frescos. "There have been damages of all kinds. Italian conservators carrying out preservation work in the 1920s used shellac, a kind of varnish, to protect the paintings which only darkened with age and collected dust. Attempts to remove the shellac led to further damage. That apart, sections of paint and plaster kept falling off while the effect of light caused the colours to fade," said Behl. While the murals themselves have decayed over the years, Behl's restoration of 50 of them seems to have injected new wonder into the art - play of light and shadow, gem-set ornaments, natural scenery, fleeting expressions and theatricality - sparking a deeper sense of the painted mobility in Ajanta's still figures. "The restoration was limited to what my eyes as an art historian could see. I've photographed several Indian murals from the fifth and later centuries, which helped establish the continuity in these paintings," said Behl explaining his process while adding his: "hesitation to use any sophisticated tool that might take away from the human understanding of this art form." Guided by the art itself, Behl drew on the rare traditions that have emanated from Ajanta's paintings. "Such as the 'inward look' in the characters that take you away from the clamour of the material world to the peace and joy within; shadings which persuade your eyes of the roundedness of form; and a naturalism that goes beyond optical reality, be it in the curve of pearl strings or the flutter of scarves, depicting movement in a medium which is unmoving," he explained. Other nuances in the original works that have now sprung to life are the female faces in Dark Princess in Ajanta's Cave No. 1. The digital makeover has kindled their reddish brown eyes, coiffed hair, bejwelled crowns and flowers that look like hibiscus. "Both faces were extremely damaged and their beauty considerably lost. After restoration we can see why the Dark Princess was considered so beautiful by British art historians," explains Behl who studied painted reproductions of Ajanta by the Otani University, Kyoto; National Museum, Bhopal; and Government Museum, Thiruvananthapuram, to restore their grandeur. In another scene from the Mahajanaka Jataka titled Dancing Girl - where Bodhisattva's queen has arranged for a dance performance to distract the king from renouncing palace life - the revel of the dancer has reappeared along with her supple torso while Bodhisattva Vajrapani in its restored avatar accentuates the majesty evident in his clear expressions and intricate crown. The restored Ajanta artworks are part of 100 mural paintings which Behl has restored out of 53,000 photographs he has taken of Indian and Asian art heritage over the years. "Sapio Analytics, the government's advisory firm has already taken 15 of my restored images of Ajanta, Badami and other early Indian paintings for a Virtual City that it's building to preserve India's ancient cultural heritage," says Behl whose snap of the King Mahajanaka mural in Ajanta was recently eternalised in the disaster-proof steel vaults of the Arctic World Archives in Norway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/digital-makeover-turns-back-time-on-ajantas-5th-century-murals/articleshow/79588196.cms||Mohua Das
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram serial killer committed multiple thefts in past, was guesthouse staff||GURUGRAM: Mohammad Raza, the 21-year-old alleged serial killer arrested by the Gurugram police on Friday, is believed to have committed multiple thefts in Delhi. After getting his custody from a court on Saturday, cops took Raza to a Delhi guest house where he worked till a month back and came to know about his criminal past. Raza, who allegedly committed three blind murders in the city on three consecutive nights in November, was arrested near Iffco Chowk on Friday by the Gurugram cops after a manhunt for days. His three alleged victims were a security guard, an office boy and a man who remains unidentified. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said Raza used to steal mobile phones and wallets of guests during his stint in the guest house. “He would hide the items on the terrace and later sell the same. Raza moved to Gurugram in search of a new job a month back after being sacked by his employer for his stealing habit,” he said. The manager of the guest house, Gufran, told the Gurugram police that Raza used to disappear for a few days and again return on his own. “His mobile phone worked till the time he remained inside the guest house. As soon as he stepped out of the guest house, he used to switch off his mobile phone,” he told cops. Originally from Bihar, Raza had worked in Nepal for some time before relocating to Delhi. “His parents run a grocery shop in Bihar. He is the eldest among five siblings but his family members consider him useless. He never had a steady job due to his erratic behaviour,” the ACP said. “Raza would get angry if anyone got rough with him. He severed the head of the office boy in Sector 46 on November 25 because the victim had abused him after they had an argument following a couple of drinks,” said the assistant police commissioner. His family members are not inclined to visit Gurugram to meet him, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/serial-killer-committed-multiple-thefts-in-past-was-guesthouse-staff/articleshow/79586897.cms||Bagish Jha
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||With supply chain cut, Haryana industries start bleeding again||GURUGRAM: Already reeling from losses incurred during the lockdown, the farmers’ protest and the restrictions on movement through Delhi’s borders have dealt another blow to the Haryana industry. Poultry to plywood, hosiery to pharmacy — almost all sectors are bleeding because of lack of raw material. Trucks carrying material are stuck at various border points and the factories are on the verge of exhausting their supplies. The farmers’ protests against the three agriculture laws have prompted the Delhi cops to close two of the main border crossings with Haryana at Tikri and Singhu. As a result, the factories operating in the districts near Delhi, such as Sonipat, Rohtak, Jind and Panipat, have been the worst affected. Industry experts have pegged the loss at around Rs 2,500 crore. They said the protests had cast a cloud even on export of manufactured products as 7,500 trucks ferrying such material were stuck at different locations. The supply chain of raw materials broken, the footwear industry based in Bahadurgarh has been one of the worst sufferers. Unconfirmed estimates said finished products worth Rs 400 crore were lying in factories and waiting to be transported. Narendra Chopra, a footwear manufacturer in Bahadurgarh, said winter was the peak season for them and the losses were more biting because ready products could not be sent across the borders for lack of transport. “There are around 2,000 footwear factories in Bahadurgarh, and 1,300 of them are on the verge of shutting down because of the unavailability of raw materials. Over the last 10 days, production has suffered a 70% reduction because there are no raw materials,” he added. In Panipat and Sonipat, the hub of food processing, around 50% of the factories had to be shut down temporarily as raw materials exhausted. Factory owners said around Rs 1,000 crore worth of products were ready to be transported. There are about 4,200 industries between Kundli and Badi, where business worth Rs 2,800 crore is done annually. Pritam Singh Sachdeva, president of the Panipat Industrial Association, said they were facing a shortage of threads, which come from Gujarat. “Several small manufacturers have had to down their shutters due to non-availability of goods. The winter season is the time for sweaters and cardigans. And here, our business is suffering big time,” he added. Sumit Kumar, the owner of a food processing factory, said they were operating at 50% capacity. “After the lockdown, it’s a new challenge for all of us. No solution seems to be in sight,” he added. Transporters, too, are feeling the heat as more than 7,500 trucks have become immovable. Pradeep Modi, general secretary of the Transport Welfare Association, said they had adopted a wait-and-watch policy. “There is much inconvenience in the dispatch of goods. We are shipping goods through the KMP and other alternative routes. As a result of the longer distance that is now being covered, the prices of raw materials have gone up,” he said. On Saturday, too, there was no respite from the protests, nor was any relief in sight for the commuters. Thousands of vehicles, including trucks carrying raw materials, were stranded on the Delhi-Agra NH-2 for almost 20 hours since Friday night after Haryana Police blocked its border with UP at Mathura’s Kotwan. The decision was taken after farmers started protests in Palwal and Hodal. The border was eventually opened on Saturday evening. Mathura superintendent of police (rural) Shrish Chandra told TOI that the vehicles were stranded on three roads. “Though we had diverted many vehicles to Yamuna Expressway, the movement of traffic smoothened only after Haryana Police opened the border in the evening,” he added. In neighbouring UP, the Chilla border was completely sealed on Saturday after farmers blocked the Delhi-Noida lanes in addition to the carriageways for traffic in the opposite direction. Traffic between Noida and east Delhi was thrown out of gear because of the protests on the key highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/supply-chain-cut-due-to-blockade-industries-in-state-bleeding-again/articleshow/79587414.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Green belts, roads cleared of garbage & illegal ads||GURUGRAM: As many as 800 sanitation workers of the MCG carried out a sanitation drive in ward 28 on Saturday. Besides clearing C&D waste, teams from the advertisement branch have also removed illegal ads from the area. MCG officials said that the idea is to clean an entire ward in one day. Sanitation workers cleaned green belts, roadsides, vacant plots and other areas and also removed C&D waste from several areas. Moreover, teams of the horticulture department pruned trees and cleared unkempt grass. The civic body used tractor trolleys, pruning machines and JCB for carrying out the drive. The sanitation department teams also sprinkled water to comply with the graded response action plan (GRAP). “There were certain challenges to clean one ward in a day but the feedback from residents was overwhelming. We plan to implement it in other wards, however, we will first discuss about today’s drive in a meeting on Monday and then plan accordingly,” said Pradeep Ahlawat, joint commissioner 4, MCG. MCG officials said that the idea was also to change the perception of the corporation. The major areas covered in the drive in Ward 28 includes Sector 38, Sector 39, Jharsa, Prempuri, Islampur, Bhaktawar Chowk, Subhash Chowk to Rajiv Chowk and surrounding roads, streets. Residents of Sector 38 also submitted a charter of demands to mayor Madhu Azad during the sanitation drive, demanding beautification of parks, construction of an open gym, benches in park, street lights, re-carpeting of 10m road, old age home and other development works. Azad said that the residents should also contribute to keep their roads, green belts, streets and surroundings clean. “Our surroundings should be cleaned. Residents should also participate in the process and ensure that nobody dumps garbage on the roads, green belts,” added Azad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/green-belts-roads-cleared-of-garbage-illegal-ads/articleshow/79586928.cms||---
December 6, 2020||World||Stonehenge shut after ‘mass trespass’||NEW DELHI: The prehistoric site of Stonehenge in England was closed to visitors on Saturday after protesters staged a “mass trespass” against the British government’s roadbuilding plans, including a new 1.7 billion-pound tunnel near the World Heritage Site. The protesters, who described themselves as locals, activists and archaeologists, gathered at the site around midday. English Heritage, a national charity that manages hundreds of historic sites, closed Stonehenge “due to unforeseen circumstances” soon after.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/stonehenge-shut-after-mass-trespass/articleshow/79588214.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram reports less than 400 fresh Covid cases after a span of 36 days||GURUGRAM: The city on Saturday reported less than 400 new cases of novel coronavirus for the first time after a period of over a month. Last time, Gurugram had registered less than 400 Covid-19 cases on October 30. “Active cases have also dropped to less than 4,000,” said an official from the health department. The city reported 395 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday taking the tally to 51,840. According to the health department, 981 people recovered after testing negative for the virus on Saturday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 47,734. The health authorities have collected 10,002 samples in the past 24 hours for antigen and RT-PCR tests. “As part of the state-wide target to conduct 50,000 tests together by all districts, we have conducted 10,000 tests. We have been able to provide result of these tests within 24-36 hours. Though we conducted large scale tests on Saturday, all these reports will be made available before Monday,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. Apart from adding less number of Covid cases, the health department on Saturday finally completed the data compilation of healthcare workers who will be given the vaccine in the first phase and submitted their list to the state government. Meanwhile, an official said four people succumbed to the infection on Saturday. Till date, 314 people have died of Covid-19 in the city, of whom 243 had comorbidities. The daily positivity rate is around 8% in Gurugram. The cases have come down in the last one week, after the recent surge. On Saturday, 28 people were sent to the institutional quarantine facilities. The city has a total of 3,792 active cases, of which 3,515 are under home isolation. So far, 5,52,488 people have been put under surveillance in Gurugram. The health department has sent 5,49,172 samples for testing, of which 4,87,330 turned out to be negative, while the results of 7,244 are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/city-reports-less-than-400-fresh-covid-cases-after-a-span-of-36-days/articleshow/79586951.cms||Ipsita Pati
December 6, 2020||Noida||Farmers block lanes, Chilla border sealed||NOIDA/NEW DELHI: The Chilla border was completely sealed on Saturday after a group of farmers blocked the Delhi-Noida lanes in response to UP Police’s decision to stop other protesters at different locations. Traffic between Noida and east Delhi was thrown out of gear completely as the other lanes from Noida to Delhi are already shut because of the protests. It was only a few days ago that the farmers, after being requested by cops, had agreed to move away from the Delhi-Noida lanes to allow commuters to travel between the two cities. On Saturday morning, farmers again blocked the lanes after 600 other protesters were stopped at Jewar, Mathura and the UP-Palwal border. At Chilla, the farmer owing allegiance to the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Bhanu refused to budge an inch unless the other protesters were allowed to enter UP. They moved the barricades put up on other carriageways to the Delhi-Noida lanes and blocked the entire highway. “Our brothers are being stopped at the UP border. We had vacated the Dellhi-Noida carriageways to allow traffic. But they are now stopping our fellow supporters from reaching here,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, the president of BKU-Bhanu in UP. While the farmers accused Delhi Police of treating them “disrespectfully”, the cops alleged that the agitators were “misbehaving”. KP Thenuan, president of the IT cell of BKU-Bhanu, said, “The talks on Saturday, too, were unsuccessful. It seems the government is not serious even when the farmers are braving the winter chill. Our leaders are going to have a meeting for the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday.” Jasmeet Singh, DCP (east) of Delhi Police, said that the farmers’ behaviour was inappropriate. “They say they will go to the Parliament, Ramlila Ground and Jantar Mantar. We tried to make them understand that one carriageway should be opened because patients headed towards hospitals like Max Patparganj and AIIMs use this route. We haven’t received any positive response so far,” he added. Caught in the long queue of vehicles, commuters headed towards Noida from Delhi had to return or use alternative routes. This caused traffic to move bumper to bumper on key routes in Delhi. In a series of tweets, Delhi Police informed commuters about the routes that had been shut due to the protests and the alternatives that can be taken. Traffic to and from Noida was diverted from Akshardham and Crown Plaza Chowk. Vehicles were also diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters were asked to avoid the Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44. Singhu, Auchandi, Lemuria Maniyari and Mangesh borders were also closed for traffic along with NH-44 on both sides. For people who use this route, an advisory was issued and they were asked to opt for alternative routes via Safiabad, Saboli, NH8, Bhopra, Apsara borders or the peripheral expressway. Traffic police officers said the Tikri and Jharoda borders continued to remain shut. Meanwhile, the Badusarai border was open only for light motor vehicles. The Ghazipur border on NH-24 was also closed for traffic from Ghaziabad to Delhi. People taking this route were asked to use Apsara, Bhopra and the DND.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/farmers-block-lanes-chilla-border-sealed/articleshow/79587458.cms||Shikha Salaria
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Panel set up on Maratha quota||The state government set up a 5-member coordination committee of advocates to press for a state government demand to quash an SC interim order in SEBC reservation case before a 5-member bench. It urged citizens, experts and organizations in Maratha community to contact committee members, to make legal suggestions on the hearing on December 9 at 2pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/panel-set-up-on-maratha-quota/articleshow/79588224.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG seals 2 more properties over non-payment of tax||GURUGRAM: The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday sealed two more properties in Sector 39 for non-payment of their property tax dues. While one property sealed on Saturday is yet to pay the property tax worth Rs 24 lakh, another property has Rs 22 lakh pending. The taxation department of the civic body has sealed 15 properties in the last five days alone as the deadline to file property tax is approaching. Two properties in Zone-4 were sealed on Saturday while two properties in Udyog Vihar with a pending due of Rs 22 lakh were sealed on December 2. “We have sealed a total of 15 properties since December 1. Moreover, we have disconnected water and sewerage connections of around 25 properties in the last five days,” said Dinesh Kumar, zonal taxation officer-2, MCG. The deadline to file property tax has been extended to December 31. A one-time rebate of 25% will be given to owners who have pending tax dues since financial year 2010-11, if they clear the dues till financial year 2019-20 by December 31. Moreover, the deadline to avail 10% rebate on the property tax for the year 2020-21 has also now been extended to December 31. Earlier, the Haryana government would give 10% rebate to the owners if they pay their property tax dues for the assessment year by July 31 of that assessment year. The taxation department of the MCG has shortlisted 702 defaulters whose water and sewerage connections will be cut. This is the first time that they will cut the water and sewerage connections on a large scale. The property tax defaulters who have to pay their dues between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh are facing disconnection of their water and sewerage connections and the properties of the defaulters with dues more than Rs 5 lakh are being sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-seals-2-more-properties-over-non-payment-of-tax/articleshow/79586972.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Thane||Thane: Man singes son for urinating at home||KALYAN: A man from Kalyan has been arrested for singeing his 7-year-old son on a hand, leg and private parts with tongs for urinating at home during dinner. The man, widowed twice, had a third marriage. The boy is from the second marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-man-singes-son-for-urinating-at-home/articleshow/79588243.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Water supply to be hit in Dadar, Mahim||Heavy water leakage was detected in a 57-inch pipeline at Machichimar Nagar, Mahim, on Saturday afternoon. Repairs are on. Supply was affected in parts of Prabhadevi, Matunga (W), Dadar, Shivaji Park, and Mahim. Supply is likely to be hit on Sunday too, so BMC has urged people to use water judiciously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-supply-to-be-hit-in-dadar-mahim/articleshow/79588263.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two more get bail in 'TRP scam' case||MUMBAI: Two more accused in the 'TRP scam', including Ghanshyam Singh (44), distribution head, Republic TV, were granted bail by a sessions court on Saturday. The charge-sheet said while Republic TV was free-to-air, Singh "connived" with other arrested accused and paid them to increase TRPs. Another accused, Vishal Bhandari, also got bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-two-more-get-bail-in-trp-scam-case/articleshow/79588273.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Govt revenue from liquor sales moves closer to target||BENGALURU: The economic slowdown because of Covid-19 has affected revenue collection of many government functions, but the excise department is inching closer to its target of Rs 22,700 crore. At the end of November, the department’s revenue collection was only 4.5 per cent below the target for 2020-21. “We are close to the level of last year. The volume of consumption has been improving since October, which is a good sign. We are confident of meeting the target in December as sales are expected to rise during Christmas and New Year celebrations,” said state excise commissioner M Lokesh. Despite 47 days of lockdown and Covid-19 curbs, Karnataka has recorded excise revenue deficit of only Rs 612 crore, or 4.5 per cent. Between April and November, the excise department collected Rs 13,778 crore as against Rs 14,390 crore it did during the same period in 2019. The April-May was painful as the department saw revenue of only Rs 1,404 crore compared to Rs 3,354 crore in the corresponding period of 2019. In the following months, its revenue was more than that of the corresponding months of last year because of higher taxes. Sales, though, were down. Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Limited, which has the rights for sourcing and pricing IMFL, has sold 356 carton boxes of IMFL this year. In 2019, it sold 400 boxes. Compared to IMFL, beer sales have been sluggish because of factors such as public fears of catching a cold. “Things are improving and we expect this trend to continue,” Lokesh said. Govindraj Hegde of the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, said that they had urged the government to reduce the excise duty to boost sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-revenue-from-liquor-sales-moves-closer-to-target/articleshow/79588282.cms||Manu Aiyappa
December 6, 2020||Mumbai||Deepika Padukone's former manager's bail hearing on December 19||MUMBAI: The hearing for anticipatory bail filed by Karishma Prakash was once again adjourned, this time to December 19. Prakash had sought pre-arrest bail on October 31. The prosecution said that it will not take any coercive action against her till then. Prakash, the former manager of actor Deepika Padukone, has been booked in a drugs case being probed in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. NCB had booked Prakash after they allegedly found 1.7gm of hashish at her Versova home. The contraband falls under the category of small quantity. The maximum sentence it attracts is one year rigorous imprisonment or a fine of up to Rs 10,000, or both.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deepika-padukones-former-managers-bail-hearing-on-december-19/articleshow/79588286.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka sees 1,325 new Covid-19 infections||BENGALURU: Karnataka reported 1,325 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Of these, 709 were in Bengaluru. The daily positivity rate stood at 1.2 per cent. Twelve new fatalities were reported, including six in Bengaluru. Five of the patients had passed away in November. Three reportedly had no comorbidity. The daily Covid-19 fatality rate continued to be less than 1 per cent in Karnataka. No deaths were recorded in 23 districts. Across the state, 24,959 patients are undergoing treatment currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-sees-1325-new-infections/articleshow/79588301.cms||---
December 6, 2020||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Punjabi pop enthuses agitators and castigates the central government||NEW DELHI: The speeches and announcements at Singhu border, where farmers are on protest against the new agricultural laws enacted by the central government recently, are frequently punctuated by blasts of Punjabi pop. These emanate from stereo speakers mounted on tractors driven by young farmers. It is their new way of invigorating their fellow protesters — with songs of protest. Singers like Babbu Maan, Gagan Wadali, Kanwar Grewal and others have added their unique flavour to the protests. While one tractor played Murrde ni laye bina haq, Dilliye by Harbhajan Mann, another had Wadali in Modi de prahuney asking the Prime Minister to prepare tea for the farmers who have come for their rights. The latter has become a hot favourite with the youthful protesters. Another favourite is Sarda bolda by superstar Babbu Maan. The song, released on YouTube only on December 3, has already garnered over two million views. Abhijeet Singh, a young farmer from Khalaur in Patiala district, said, “The purpose of playing these songs is to reignite the farmers. The hard-core lyrics excite the people. We go around on the tractors playing these songs loudly.” Alongside, him Manjeet added, “The lyrics aren’t abusive or violent, only reiterate our demands and our rights.” On another tractor, Garmeet Singh played R Nait’s Delhi-A, a line in it stating, “Oy Delhi-A Punjab naal pange theek nai.” This, Garmeet said, was a fun song that reminded farmers of their strength. He disclosed that in the past few weeks, Punjabi musicians had created many songs with the word ‘Delhi’ in them. He explained, “Delhi means the central government and how it is treating us. The whole of Punjab is behind this protest and the music connect is not accidental.” Singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh went a step ahead, arriving personally at the Singhu border on Saturday to show his support for the agitating land tillers. Saying that he had come only to listen and not to speak, Dosanjh said of the protesters, “We have only heard stories like this in our folk lore, but they have re-created history here.” Dosanjh, who was caught in a media storm after going on a tirade against actor Kangana Ranaut on Twitter, asked journalists “to show only farmers’ problems, not divert the issues”. He also requested the central government to kindly give the farmers “whatever they want because they are asking in peace and the whole country is with them”. Near the dais from where the singer spoke to the crowd, Thana Singh, 60, entertained his fellow demonstrators in his own way — with a Punjabi folk-style song filled with invectives against the Centre. The pop culture at the protest site is not only about music. Students of Delhi University have created a special space for posters. Rajveer Kaur, DU student and president of Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch, revealed, “We have been putting up posters here since December 3. These have been created by DU students and relate to the farmers’ agitation, labour law reforms and the National Education Policy, all black Acts enacted by the central government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-protest-in-delhi-punjabi-pop-enthuses-agitators-and-castigates-the-central-government/articleshow/79588287.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
