December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Delay in service: Bank told to release 6 lakh education loan subsidy and 30,000 relief to parent||BENGALURU: A city consumer court has rapped a nationalised bank for failing to refund a man education loan subsidy amounting to over Rs 6 lakh though he had cleared the loan he had availed for his son’s education. The bank’s Malleswaram branch that made the man from an economically weaker background run from pillar to post since 2015 for his rightful claim has now been ordered to immediately process his refund payable with interest and also grant him a compensation of Rs 30,000. Yeshwantpur resident K Balaji, who earned a monthly salary of Rs 34,470, wanted to send his son overseas for higher education. In 2012, he applied for an education loan of Rs 19 lakh from the bank after his son secured admission in Germany to pursue his MS. After receiving the loan, Balaji repaid the money in instalments and cleared the loan by July 2018. However, while repaying the loan, Balaji realised that in October 2015, the ministry of human resources development had launched a central sector interest subsidy scheme wherein the full interest on education loans for the moratorium period, which was the period of the course for which the loan was availed plus one year, would be borne by the government for poor students. Hopeful of a refund totalling to over Rs 6.3 lakh, Balaji approached the bank. After making the customer run around, the authorities directed him to its Malleswaram branch. But much to his dismay, the staff dragged the process and Balaji was denied his refund for over four years. Fed up, Balaji approached the Bangalore 1st Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission on November 25, 2019. Balaji presented his case while the bank’s lawyer argued the complainant was not eligible for the subsidy as he had taken Rs 19 lakh loan and pledged his house as a collateral. On November 21, 2020, the court pointed out the subsidy is given irrespective of the loan amount to students whose parents have an income below Rs 4.5 lakh per annum. The court ruled the bank must expedite the process through the nodal agency concerned within three months of the order and after receiving the same, credit the money to the account of the complainant with interest. The bank was also directed to pay Rs 25,000 for damages and Rs 5,000 towards court expenses to Balaji, all within 30 days of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/delay-in-service-bank-told-to-release-6l-edu-loan-subsidy-and-30k-relief-to-parent/articleshow/79597098.cms||Petlee Peter
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Guard falls to death while tying poster||BENGALURU: A security guard died after he fell from a height of 25ft while trying to tie a movie poster in Triveni Theatre, Gandhinagar, on Sunday. Chandrappa, 68, a resident of RT Nagar, had climbed a frame built of wooden poles to fix the poster at 7.30am. He untied the old flex and was about to fix the new one when he lost balance and fell on the road below. He sustained severe injuries and died instantly, police said. The theatre was to reopen on Sunday after Covid-19 closure with the screening of Kannada movie ACT 1978. Police said Chandrappa had been deputed as a guard in the theatre two years ago through Raju Security Agency, Sultanpalya. “The security agency owner said changing posters was not his job,” said Sanjeev M Patil, deputy commissioner of police. Upparpet police have taken up a case of criminal negligence. “We have registered a case under IPC section 304a against the theatre manager and superviser. Chandrappa’s son Manjunath has filed a complaint too,” said an officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/guard-falls-to-death-while-tying-poster/articleshow/79597100.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Kids should be aware of safety levels: Experts||BENGALURU: From the moment we wake up to the time we go to bed, we tend to use a variety of gadgets and engage in different activities, all of which could pose a potential risk to our life. But our day-to-day life is made safe, efficient and comfortable, thanks to safety standards that are in place across the spectrum. At a webinar organised by Times NIE and Underwriters Laboratories (UL) on the “Importance of standards in everyday life”, a panel of experts brought home the fact that it is only when things do not work efficiently or when they pose a threat to our safety do we realise the importance of standards. Lamenting the lack of awareness about standards, the panel comprising deputy director general (policy, research and training), Bureau of Indian Standards, NK Kansara, CEO at Min Toy Pvt Ltd (Shinsei) & president, TAITMA Manish Kukreja and standards engineer at Underwriters Laboratories Caroline Treuthardt hoped that teachers would be able to disseminate this information to students, who could take it forward. They felt that knowing how the presence of safety mechanisms or the lack of them could impact our lives is important. Standards are scientific documents, based on data. These change with new technology, additional data and experience. Standards not only ensure the safety of consumers, but also set quality parameters, reliability, compatibility and efficiency in manufacturing and processing. They reduce trade barriers and help in global trade. Speaking about national standard categories like BIS, CRS and Hallmark among others, Kansara emphasised that a thorough process is followed while setting standards and expert technical committees from different sectors are part of it. Besides, today there is a provision for students, teachers and the general public to not only be involved in the standardisation process, but also reach out to the bureau when they find substandard, fake or counterfeit products. It came as a shock to learn that the BIS standard for toys came into effect only in 2020. But Kukreja pointed out that toys teach children a variety of skill sets and should be seen as an investment. Also present at the discussion were programme manager at UL Lakshmi Nair and project specialist L Naina Swareeta Urs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kids-should-be-aware-of-safety-levels-experts/articleshow/79597106.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||90 BMTC ebuses may be rolled out in June||BENGALURU: If all goes as per plan, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) passengers could travel in electric buses by June. BMTC officials said they have finalised the bid and work order will be issued to NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam Ltd (NVVN), a subsidiary of NTPC Ltd, to provide 90 non-AC ebuses under the Bengaluru Smart City project. In fact, BMTC was the first state-run transport utility in the country to have conducted trial runs for electric buses as early as in 2014. The corporation’s board even approved the proposal to lease 150 of these buses in 2016. However, no electric buses have been inducted so far. NTPC formed a joint venture with its original equipment manufacturer partner JBM for the project. JBM recently commenced trial run of an AC ebus. BMTC officials said they will soon issue a letter of acceptance to NVVN-JBM. NTPC, a PSU under the Union power ministry, has quoted nearly Rs 51 per km. “This is one of the lowest bids in the country. NVVN is expected to induct electric buses in six months. The rate is nearly Rs 6 per km more than that of diesel buses. But it will be cheaper than the diesel ones by 2022, going by the rise in fuel prices,” said a senior BMTC official. BMTC managing director C Shikha confirmed the development. “This is the first time two bidders participated in the ebus tender. Normally, we get only a single bid. So, the rate is competitive this time,” she said. BMTC is planning to induct 90 non-AC midi (9m) electric Metro feeder buses with a passenger capacity of 30 to 35. They will be deployed to and from Metro stations like Mysuru Road, Byappanahalli, Banashankari and Indiranagar. Though BMTC had earlier planned to keep them conductorless, these buses will have conductors. NVVN-JBM will deploy a driver and also operate and maintain buses, apart from setting up charging infrastructure at major depots and stations. BMTC operates 154 buses on 38 Metro feeder routes. The 90 ebuses will be deployed on nine routes and 56 schedules with an average route length of 9km. Separately, the transport utility is planning to induct 300 electric buses sanctioned under phase 2 of Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India (FAME) scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/90-bmtc-ebuses-may-be-rolled-out-in-june/articleshow/79597137.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||India's active Covid-19 cases near 4 lakh, recovery rate stands at 94.37%||NEW DELHI: India recorded 36,011 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of active coronavirus cases in the country to 4,03,248, said the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. With 41,970 new recoveries, the number of overall recovered Covid-19 patients stand at 91,00,792, pushing the recovery rate to 94.37 per cent today. The overall Covid-19 cases reached 96,44,222, including 4,03,248 active cases and 91,00,792 recoveries. With 482 new deaths, the cumulative toll mounted to 1,40,182. According to the Ministry, India reported less than 50,000 cases for the 28th day in a row. The last time the daily new cases crossed the 50,000-threshold was on November 7. With India recording more recoveries than the new Covid-19 cases for the last nine days, the active coronavirus caseload dropped to 4.03 lakh (4,03,248) on Sunday, the lowest in 138 days, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. "This is the lowest in 138 days. The total active cases were 4,02,529, on July 21, 2020," the Ministry said in a release. Delhi reported 2,706 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of coronavirus cases in the national capital to 5,92,250 including 5,57,914 recoveries. The death toll surged to 9,643 after 69 succumbed to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, Delhi health department said on Sunday. Kerala reported 4,777 fresh Covid-19 cases and 5,217 recoveries on Sunday. The total numbers of active cases and recovered cases in the state are 60,924 and 5,27,911 respectively, according to state health department. Karnataka reported 1,321 new Covid-19 cases, 889 discharges, and 10 deaths on Sunday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state reached 8,93,006 including 8,55,750 recovered cases and 11,856 deaths. There are 25,381 active cases in the state, according to Karnataka health department. Tamil Nadu reported 1,320 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus in the state to 7,90,240. According to state health department, 1,398 discharges, and 16 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours taking the total number of discharges to 7,67,659 and death toll to 11,793. There are 10,788 active cases in the state. Uttar Pradesh reported 1,950 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of coronavirus in the state to 5,54,944. A total of 1,993 discharges, and 24 deaths were reported taking the total number of discharges to 5,24,860 and death toll to 7,924. There are 22,160 active cases in the state, said state health department. Andhra Pradesh reported 667 new Covid-19 cases, 914 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total cases in the state stand at 8,71,972 including 8,59,029 recoveries, 5,910 active cases and 7,033 deaths. With 553 new Covid-19 cases, the total number of positive cases in Himachal Pradesh is 44,958 till date. As many as 520 cured cases and 11 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recovered cases to 35,923 and the death toll to 722. Meanwhile, Pfizer India has become the first pharmaceutical firm to approach the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking an emergency use authorisation for its Covid-19 vaccine in the country. It is to be noted that Pfizer India's parent company Pfizer has already got emergency-use clearance in the United Kingdom and Bahrain. At an all-party meeting recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said a Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be ready in the next few weeks, and as soon as scientists give a green signal, vaccination will start in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-active-covid-19-cases-near-4-lakh-recovery-rate-stands-at-94-37/articleshow/79597187.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Self-registration for comorbid people to get Covid vaccines?||BENGALURU: India, which faces the daunting task of identifying high-risk people with comorbidities — not all states have data on such population — whom it will have to inoculate after healthcare and frontline workers get vaccines, may consider allowing individuals to self-declare comorbidities to get the shot in the arm. Part of India’s preparations to deliver vaccines is to e-tag them: Vaccines will be tagged and tracked electronically from the place of origin (ports/pharma firms) up to the person receiving the dose. This will be enabled by the CO-WIN app, which is an upgraded version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) initiative used for other immunisation programmes since 2015. While eVIN tracked vaccines up to the cold chain, CO-WIN will track them to the last mile: Every person receiving a vaccine will get an SMS with details of the date, venue and time of vaccination and even the name of the vaccinator. After vaccination, the app will also generate certificates. Beneficiary data for the first two rounds of inoculation will be entered onto CO-WIN by state authorities, while data of those from the third round, which will prioritise comorbid people, may see individuals self-registering. “As part of the upgrade, an option allowing individuals to self-register, declaring their comorbidities has been included in CO-WIN. Local officials will authenticate such applications before considering the person for vaccination. However, this option remains disabled at the moment as governments will enter data of healthcare workers,” Arundathi Chandrashekar, one of the mission directors of the National Health Mission (NHM), which will spearhead the vaccination drive, told TOI. The government has still kept the option of collecting data of persons with comorbidities and uploading them on CO-WIN as bulk entries, but this would require massive data from across the states, which may not be viable within dedicated timelines. “In case such data is unavailable and/or any surveys planned are not complete, the government is likely to allow self registration. But things are still very fluid, and a committee at the central level is deliberating various options,” Arundathi said, adding that the Centre will decide the modalities. Up to 20% May Be Comorbid While no final decision has been made on how to identify people with comorbidities yet, experts part of ICMR and other government of India committees TOI spoke with said various options, including self-declaration by people, using the NCD (non-communicable diseases) national database, door-to-door survey findings done in states like Karnataka and Mumbai region may be considered by the government. “According to estimates, 15% to 20% of the population may have comorbidities. The NCD data is not complete and has only passive enrolments which started October 2019 and only a third of all data has been digitised so far. We’ll soon be starting an active survey and the target to cover the entire population is 2022. Apart from this, we are likely to include additional fields in the family surveys to be conducted by the health department to include options to enter commodities,” Arundhati added. Aside from NCD data, some states like Karnataka are looking at including additional fields for comorbidities as part of the National Family Survey. “Everything will depend on the GoI guidelines,” Arundathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/self-registration-for-comorbid-people-to-get-covid-vaccines/articleshow/79597324.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 7, 2020||India||Serum Institute seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in India||NEW DELHI: The Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public at large, official sources said. A day earlier, the Indian arm of US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer became the first to seek a similar approval from India's drug regulator for its own Covid-19 vaccine in the country, after securing such clearance in the UK and Bahrain. The phase-three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, is being conducted by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India on Sunday (SII), co-sponsored by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in various parts of the country in addition to clinical studies being carried out by Oxford-AstraZeneca in the UK and Brazil. Based on phase two and three clinical trial results, the SII with the help of the ICMR will pursue early availability of the vaccine for India, the country's apex health research body had said last month. According to the ICMR, the SII has already manufactured 40 million doses of the vaccine under the at-risk manufacturing and stockpiling license it obtained from the DCGI. Official sources, citing the SII application, said the firm has stated that data from four clinical studies, two in the UK and one each in Brazil and India, shows that Covishield is highly efficacious against symptomatic and most importantly against severe Covid-19 infections. The results are in line with other anti-coronavirus vaccines and because of the huge disease burden, Covishield is predicted to alleviate substantial Covid-19 mortality and morbidity, the firm is learnt to have said. "In terms of safety, Covishield was well tolerated with respect to solicited adverse events and was not associated with an increased number of SAEs and deaths. A majority of solicited reactions were mild in severity and resolved without any sequelae. "Therefore, Covishield is safe and well-tolerated and can be used effectively for prevention of Covid-19 in the targeted population. Thus, the benefit to risk ratio strongly supports the widespread use of Covishield," a source said quoting the application. In order to introduce an urgently needed vaccine against Covid-19 in India, SII, the world's largest vaccine manufacturer, has entered into a collaboration with the University of Oxford and AstraZeneca to manufacture the vaccine. The SII has also submitted 12 batches of the vaccine to the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli for testing, a source said. "In line with our philosophy we assure you that for Covid-19 vaccines also, we are committed to make our country 'aatmanirbhar' (self-reliant) and fulfil our prime minister's clarion call of 'vocal for local' and 'making in India' for the world," stated the application signed by Prakash Kumar Singh, Additional Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at Serum Institute of India (SII). In view of all these facts and unmet medical needs in the interest of the public at large to save millions of people in the country and across the globe, early availability of a vaccine against Covid-19 is a necessity, it stated. "So, in the national interest, we request you to grant us emergency use authorisation of Covishield based on our application and in view of immediate need for a safe, effective, programmatically suitable and affordable vaccine for our country," the application read. According to sources, this vaccine is logistically feasible for distribution in the country's both urban and rural parts as it can be stored at two to eight degrees Celsius, which is an ideal temperature for being kept in cold storages in the country. As a rapid regulatory response, the DCGI on August 2 had given nod to SII for conducting the combined phase two and three human clinical trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/serum-institute-seeks-emergency-use-authorisation-for-oxford-covid-19-vaccine-covishield-in-india/articleshow/79597420.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Arun Singh lends an ear to MLAs’ plaints against BS Yediyurappa, son||BENGALURU: A day after getting a stern warning against taking unilateral decisions, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday faced another setback with BJP general secretary incharge of Karnataka Arun Singh entertaining complaints by several legislators. The complaints were primarily against the supposed interference of Yedyiyurappa’s son and BJP state vice-president BY Vijayendra in state government affairs and the chief minister not taking them into confidence in administrative issues. Sigh has asked state unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel to convene a meeting of the MLAs to address their grievances. Government chief whip and Karkala MLA V Sunil Kumar, who is also Kerala co-incharge, recently wrote to Kateel, listing out the grouses against the CM and his son, including the alleged unilateral decision taken to nominate members to boards and corporations. The complaint also suggested the CM was inaccessible to MLAs and not conducting legislature party meetings regularly. On Sunday, Singh interacted with Kumar for close to an hour apart meeting ministers and legislators in batches at the party office in Malleswaram. “Certain matters related to the party organisation and government administration were aired by some ministers and MLAs. They’re not grave issues, but it’s important to address them. We’ve asked the chief minister and the state party president to take required steps,” said BJP national vice-president DK Aruna. Sources said Singh asked Kateel to send a report to the high command based on the MLAs’ opinions on how to resolve the disgruntlement. “These are internal matters of the party and will be sorted out by our members. I don’t want to talk about it to the media,” said Sunil Kumar. Deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan, revenue minister R Ashoka, housing minister V Somanna, food and civil supplies minister K Gopalaiah, cooperation minister ST Somashekhar, urban development minister Byrathi Basavaraj, Lok Sabha members Tejaswi Surya and PC Mohan also met Singh. Later, Yediyurappa hosted lunch for Singh and Aruna at his residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/singh-lends-an-ear-to-mlas-plaints-against-bsy-son/articleshow/79597618.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Cow slaughter, love jihad bills yet to reach scrutiny panel||BENGALURU: As the week-long legislature session commences on Monday, all eyes will be on the government on whether it will reintroduce the controversial anti-cow slaughter bill and table the new anti-love jihad bill. However, with both yet to be prepared and vetted by the law department, it remains to be seen whether the Yediyurappa government will actually do it this week. According to senior government officials and cabinet ministers, though the BJP state executive committee resolved to introduce the bills, the two pieces of legislation have not seen any traction. “We haven’t received any intimation over the bills being introduced. They haven’t reached the scrutiny committee which has to vet all legislations before they’re tabled,” said law minister JC Madhuswamy. The BJP may place the bill at the scheduled Monday evening cabinet meeting for government approval. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday said the party will oppose any legislation introduced by the government. “Be it the anti-cow slaughter bill or anti-love jihad bill, announcement of the gram panchayat poll calender means introducing new bills will have an impact on them.” One thing for certain is the move by BJP to try and wrest control of the upper house, experts said. The session is expected to see BJP move a no-confidence motion against Congress chairman Prathap Chandra Shetty with the assistance of JD(S) and take control of both houses. The BJP is likely to bring back the farm bills after it failed to secure the council’s approval last time. These have become a rallying call for farmers and anti-BJP forces in the state. The opposition Congress is expected to stall passing of the bills. With the JD(S) likely to side with farmers, after having tacitly supported the bill last time. BJP will struggle to get the legislation passed. On Sunday morning, the Congress Legislature Party met to discuss its strategy for the session. It decided that apart from farmers’ issues, it will demand a white paper from the government of the state’s financial position. The session is being held under fear of the Covid-19 pandemic. The number of cases appear to be much less than during the monsoon session. Testing for coronavirus will be voluntary. Precautionary measures are in place and social distancing will be maintained inside Vidhana Soudha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cow-slaughter-love-jihad-bills-yet-to-reach-scrutiny-panel/articleshow/79597640.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||PGCET results available on KEA website||BENGALURU: Results of PGCET-2020 entrance exam for admission to ME/ M.Tech/M Arch/MBA/MCA courses are available on KEA website hhttp//kea.kar.nic.in The schedule for verification of documents will be put up soon, the Karnataka Examinations Authority said. The test was held on October 14-15. Original documents that need to be produced for verification have been provided in the PGCET-2020 information bulletin. If any candidate fails to produce them during document verification, they will not be considered eligible for the courses, KEA said. In all, 9,235 students appeared for Mtech, 6,488 for MCA and 21,874 for MBA this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pgcet-results-available-on-kea-website/articleshow/79597688.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at Ulhasnagar hospital, all patients are safe||ULHASNAGAR: Around 19 patients from Max Life hospital in Ulhasnagar were shifted to other hospitals after a short circuit led to explosion in AC of the hospital. The hospital treats both Covid and Non-Covid patients. The fire broke out in the Non-Covid ward at around 11.30 pm. Dr Mahesh Mule, Administrator from hospital said, "The fire was controlled but smoke had engulfed the hospital premises due to which we shifted all 19 patients by arranging several ambulances in to different hospitals and all parties are stable". The incident meanwhile had created panic in hospital till all patients were not shifted. The fire brigade officials said three fire vehicles were rushed at spot to control fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-breaks-out-at-ulhasnagar-hospital-all-patients-are-safe/articleshow/79598002.cms||Pradeep Gupta
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Man who lent money at 6% monthly interest arrested; Rs 22 lakh recovered||BENGALURU: Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Saturday arrested Nagaraj Shetty, 45, for allegedly running an illegal money-lending business and charging exorbitant interest rate. Shetty runs Balaji Finance at Malleswaram. Initially, Vyalikaval police registered a case against Shetty based on a complaint filed by Sunil Kumar, an apparel businessman, who had borrowed Rs 1.4 crore from Shetty to expand his business. Kumar had alleged: “...Shetty used to deduct interest amount while sanctioning the loan. He used to charge 6% interest per month. I have paid him more than I borrowed. My business was already reeling under the effects of demonetisation and the pandemic this year dealt another blow. I was unable to repay him. He sent a gang of rowdies to my residence to recover the loan. The rowdies threatened me and my mother that they would kill us if I failed to return Shetty’s money.” The case has since been transferred to CCB, which raided Shetty’s residence at Vyalikaval and arrested him. “On a complaint of illegal money lending and charging exorbitant interest rate, CCB arrested Shetty. We recovered 164 cheques, 84 on-demand promissory notes, property documents forcefully taken from the victims and Rs 22 lakh cash from his residence during the raid,” said Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime). Preliminary probe revealed Shetty had given loans to several businessmen in the city and collected exorbitant interest from them. Police are verifying if he lent money to cinema producers too as he had done small roles in a few Kannada movies. Police said Kumar was upset as he had paid more than twice the amount he had borrowed from Shetty. Yet Shetty was harassing him for money. On suggestions from his well-wishers, Kumar recently met Patil, who told him to file a complaint with the local police station. “Shetty may have lent money for exorbitant interest to more than 100 people as we found 164 cheques collected from his customers. As of now, only one victim has filed a complaint against him. We may get more complaints once others know about his arrest through media,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-who-lent-money-at-6-monthly-interest-arrested-22l-recovered/articleshow/79598182.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Elderly woman found murdered, cops clueless||BENGALURU: Three days after a 65-year-old woman was found murdered in Kodichikkanahalli, police are still searching for clues about the killers. Nirmala Mary, who is from Kerala and ran a provision store, was stabbed to death on Thursday evening in a vacant house she wanted to rent out. She owned the shop in the same building where she lived. She had rented out two of the three houses, police said. Around 6pm, Mary’s neighbour noticed she was not in the shop though it was open since afternoon. She alerted Mary’s niece Jyothi who lived nearby. Gold, other valuables missingJyothi rushed to Mary’s house and found the door open. She found three keys lying on the sofa, which were of the three rental houses in the building. Jyothi then headed to the vacant house and found it was locked. She opened the door with the key to find Mary’s body lying in a pool of blood. Gold and other valuables were missing. Police have registered a case of house trespass, robbery and murder against unknown miscreants. Cops suspect the killers knew Mary and entered her residence posing as tenants. Mary’s daughter Sarita stays with her family on the outskirts and son Unnikrishnan lives in Kerala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/elderly-woman-found-murdered-cops-clueless/articleshow/79598189.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Curbing free speech on social media wrong: Attorney General K K Venugopal||NEW DELHI: India’s top law officer K K Venugopal on Sunday batted for free speech on social media and said any move to curb it would be very wrong for democracy and if someone misused the freedom, governments and courts had the option of resorting to contempt proceedings. Asked about some states that have attempted to curb free speech on social media by proceeding against people by resorting to provisions of the Information Technology Act or the Indian Penal Code, Attorney General Venugopal told TOI, “Curbing free speech on social media will be very wrong for democracy. Citizens, whether on social media or otherwise, must have the essential freedom to express their views about the working of institutions in a democracy. “I will be the last person to say social media needs to be regulated in a democracy. On the other hand, I feel social media is essential to democracy. Authorities come to know about the views of the general public. If someone misuses the freedom, then the government can take action under the provisions of law and the constitutional courts can resort to contempt proceedings. But if freedom of speech is curtailed, it will be a great disservice to democracy.” A few individuals crossing the line should not be a ground to curb free speech on social media, he said. Venugopal has recently repeatedly declined consent for contempt proceedings against activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan, but okayed filing of contempt petition against a few stand-up comics for their allegedly derogatory comments against the Supreme Court. “I walk a tightrope and give consent only in extreme cases where there is a deliberate attempt to denigrate the SC or its judges with derogatory posts. This is a new phenomenon on social media — to dare and attempt to invite contempt proceedings through such posts. They are daring the SC to take action. If the SC initiates contempt action against them on the basis of consent given by me in a few cases, it could send a sobering message to all not to abuse the right to free speech on social media platforms,” Venugopal said. The AG’s statement assumes significance at a time when social media is rife with posts, which according to him “are an attempt to dare the Supreme Court to initiate contempt” proceedings against the authors. Of late, he has been flooded with requests for grant of consent to file petitions in the SC for initiation of contempt proceedings. Under Section 15 of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971, filing of a contempt petition against a person requires prior consent of the attorney general or the solicitor general. With many social media posts appearing to disregard the reasonable restrictions on free speech imposed under Article 19(2) of the Constitution, there has been a spike in requests seeking the AG’s consent for filing of contempt petitions. “I am fed up with the number of requests seeking my consent for initiation of contempt for alleged contemptuous social media posts. There are two kinds of posts, one which is severely critical and the other is outrageously abusive,” Venugopal said, but harboured no doubt over the essentiality of free speech to democracy. “I have given consent for filing contempt petitions against those who have used extremely intemperate language and published obnoxious cartoons. I have declined consent in most cases, for I believe that freedom of speech is essential in a democracy. Even in cases where the posts bordered on being labelled as contemptuous, I have declined consent,” he said. Asked whether legislative curbs were necessary to sober up discourse on social media platforms, the AG said he was not in favour of anything that would curtail free speech on any medium. “Social media is a very essential outlet for common people and the intelligentsia to express their views honestly in a democracy. They have the right to express their dissatisfaction at the working of the government or the judiciary. This freedom is essential for the working of democracy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/curbing-free-speech-on-social-media-wrong-attorney-general-k-k-venugopal/articleshow/79598576.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
December 7, 2020||World||Despite a thaw in ties, Nepal may not drop Kalapani claim||NEW DELHI: In a sign that Nepal is unlikely to back down on the Kalapani dispute, despite the renewed engagement with India, its foreign ministry has listed publication of its new map among the highlights of Nepal’s foreign policy this year. This comes ahead of foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali’s visit to India this month. In its Report on Foreign Affairs for 2019-20, Nepal’s foreign ministry justified the decision to issue a new administrative and political map and said it was a consequence of India not rectifying its own political map showing, as it claimed, Nepal’s Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh areas in it. In his remarks in the report, Gyawali said he was confident the outstanding border issue would be resolved soon through constructive dialogue and on the basis of “historical treaty, evidence and facts”. Gyawali will visit India later this month for the sixth joint commission meeting that he will co-chair with his counterpart S Jaishankar. During his recent visit to Kathmandu, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had conveyed an invite from Jaishankar to Gyawali. While Shringla’s visit saw the two countries acknowledging that it was important to respect each other’s sensitivities and focus on the positives in bilateral ties, Nepal has continued to push India for early settlement of Kalapani and Susta border disputes. It reiterated in the report that Nepal-India boundary demarcation work was complete in all segments except Susta and north-western sectors and that Nepal has consistently stressed on completion of the remaining boundary demarcation work as early as possible. According to the report, Nepal maintained that territories to the east of Kali river belonged to Nepal according to Article 5 of the Treaty of Sugauli. “Nepal requested India to rectify the map and proposed twice for holding of talks at the foreign secretary level in order to complete the pending boundary demarcation work,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/despite-a-thaw-in-ties-nepal-may-not-drop-kalapani-claim/articleshow/79599124.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Despite a thaw in ties, Nepal may not drop Kalapani claim||NEW DELHI: In a sign that Nepal is unlikely to back down on the Kalapani dispute, despite the renewed engagement with India, its foreign ministry has listed publication of its new map among the highlights of Nepal’s foreign policy this year. This comes ahead of foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali’s visit to India this month. In its Report on Foreign Affairs for 2019-20, Nepal’s foreign ministry justified the decision to issue a new administrative and political map and said it was a consequence of India not rectifying its own political map showing, as it claimed, Nepal’s Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh areas in it. In his remarks in the report, Gyawali said he was confident the outstanding border issue would be resolved soon through constructive dialogue and on the basis of “historical treaty, evidence and facts”. Gyawali will visit India later this month for the sixth joint commission meeting that he will co-chair with his counterpart S Jaishankar. During his recent visit to Kathmandu, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had conveyed an invite from Jaishankar to Gyawali. While Shringla’s visit saw the two countries acknowledging that it was important to respect each other’s sensitivities and focus on the positives in bilateral ties, Nepal has continued to push India for early settlement of Kalapani and Susta border disputes. It reiterated in the report that Nepal-India boundary demarcation work was complete in all segments except Susta and north-western sectors and that Nepal has consistently stressed on completion of the remaining boundary demarcation work as early as possible. According to the report, Nepal maintained that territories to the east of Kali river belonged to Nepal according to Article 5 of the Treaty of Sugauli. “Nepal requested India to rectify the map and proposed twice for holding of talks at the foreign secretary level in order to complete the pending boundary demarcation work,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/despite-a-thaw-in-ties-nepal-may-not-drop-kalapani-claim/articleshow/79599106.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Government aims at collecting 100% toll via FASTags from January 1||NEW DELHI: The government is gearing up for 100% collection of toll charges on national highways through FASTags from January 1 in its bid to do away with cash transactions. Currently, nearly 75% of toll payment is made through FASTags and only one lane on each carriageway at toll plazas accept cash. All other lanes have been earmarked for transactions through smart tags. Sources said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will deploy personnel with point of sale (PoS) machines at toll plazas to issue smart tags quickly and also for their recharge. “We will be carrying out awareness campaigns to ensure every NH user gets FASTag for his vehicle. Even a small fraction of users paying toll charges in cash has been impacting smooth travel through the plazas. We have to go for 100% electronic toll collection,” said an official. TOI has learnt that recently road transport and highways secretary Giridhar Aramane had visited a toll plaza in Uttar Pradesh to assess the ground situation and how soon the digital payment of toll can be rolled out completely. Officials said completely doing away with cash as a mode for paying toll may require a notification from the government. The NHAI, which had recently floated a tender for issuing Metro Rail type prepaid cards to target those paying toll in cash, has withdrawn it. “It was felt that we should focus only on FASTag penetration as the system has stabilised,” said an NHAI official. Meanwhile, the road transport ministry has made it mandatory for all four wheelers and bigger vehicles to have a valid FASTag for renewal of third party insurance from April 1 and the smart tag has also been made mandatory for all commercial vehicles – cars and above – for renewal of fitness certificate from January 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-aims-at-collecting-100-toll-via-fastags-from-january-1/articleshow/79599127.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Leopard attack? 17 animals dead near Girinagar||BENGALURU: Residents of Veerabhadra Nagar in Girinagar woke up to a shocker on Sunday, when they heard of a leopard entering one of their sheds and killing six goats and 11 sheep. Forest officials said prima facie it looked like a leopard attack and people have been told not to venture out at night. This is the first time in recent years that a leopard has crossed Nice Road to attack livestock in the city. According to locals, the shed where the animals were killed is close to Nice Peripheral Ring Road. Jadiyappa, a labourer in the shed, was the last person to see the sheep and goats alive. “About 8.30pm, I came to the shed, fed these animals and left for home. When I returned around 5.30am the next day, I found the livestock dead. This is scary,” said Jadiyappa, who lives in a house provided by his employer, Manu, about 50 metres from the shed. Fear is palpable in the locality though forest department personnel are patrolling the area and are ready to trap the the big cat if they sight it. “How can we even go out if wild animals are entering these places? We had heard stories of leopards and other wild animals crossing Nice Road, but had never seen something like this. We are now scared to step out,” said Ramesh Rajappa, a private employee and resident of Veerabadhra Nagar. Manu, who has been rearing sheep and goats in the same shed for 10 years now, said this was the fist time that these animals were attacked in the locality. “It looks like the leopard attacked the livestock between 1am and 1.30am. A few of my employees live in houses next to the shed. Curiously, no one heard the animals bleating,” he said. Forest department officials are combing the area and making public announcements, telling people not to venture out of their homes at night. Turahalli forest is about 10km from where the incident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/leopard-attack-17-animals-dead-near-girinagar/articleshow/79599078.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Digital makeover turns back time on Ajanta’s 5th century murals||The idea of digital technology to resurrect a 5th century painting might seem a bit odd at first but the creative effects of such anachronism can occasionally be startling. Twenty nine years after photographer and art historian Benoy Behl stepped into the dark recesses of the Ajanta and revealed its cave paintings as it had never been revealed before when he used low-light photography to capture the murals in its true details and colours, the 65-year-old has managed to turn back time on Ajanta’s ancient murals — digitally repairing the ravages of time, blunders of less competent restorers and damages inflicted by the occasional visitor — to arrive at the first of its kind images of what they would have looked like when they were first painted 1500 years ago, without actually tampering with the original works. “It was with deep sensitivity to the art and its history that I embarked on this work using basic imaging tools already around for very many years,” explained Behl, admitting his apprehensions before taking on the task. “Because originality of the artist is important and physical work should never be disturbed,” said Behl stressing that even digital restoration of photographs of the paintings must be treated as a “sacred task” where one must not impose themselves. “Subsequently, I took it on not as a technical exercise but as something that felt necessary for the sake of history. There has been more environmental impact upon the paintings and consequently more fading of the art, since the time I photographed them in 1992.” It took Behl and his team five years to complete the project this September. Carried out in Behl’s office in south Delhi and funded by himself, the digital rejuvenation wasn’t about playing with filters and settings but investigating the damage incurred by each piece, studying their provenance and using the digital brush to undo blemishes, paint losses and layers of dust and grime on Ajanta’s fading frescos. “There have been damages of all kinds. Italian conservators carrying out preservation work in the 1920s used shellac, a kind of varnish, to protect the paintings which only darkened with age and collected dust. Attempts to remove the shellac led to further damage. That apart, sections of paint and plaster kept falling off while the effect of light caused the colours to fade,” said Behl. While the murals themselves have decayed over the years, Behl’s restoration of 50 of them seems to have injected new wonder into the art — play of light and shadow, gem-set ornaments, natural scenery, fleeting expressions and theatricality — sparking a deeper sense of the painted mobility in Ajanta’s still figures. “The restoration was limited to what my eyes as an art historian could see. I’ve photographed several Indian murals from the fifth and later centuries, which helped establish the continuity in these paintings,” said Behl explaining his process while adding his: “hesitation to use any sophisticated tool that might take away from the human understanding of this art form.” Guided by the art itself, Behl drew on the rare traditions that have emanated from Ajanta’s paintings. “Such as the ‘inward look’ in the characters that take you away from the clamour of the material world to the peace and joy within; shadings which persuade your eyes of the roundedness of form; and a naturalism that goes beyond optical reality, be it in the curve of pearl strings or the flutter of scarves, depicting movement in a medium which is unmoving,” he explained. Other nuances in the original works that have now sprung to life are the female faces in Dark Princess in Ajanta’s Cave No. 1. The digital makeover has kindled their reddish brown eyes, coiffed hair, bejwelled crowns and flowers that look like hibiscus. “Both faces were extremely damaged and their beauty considerably lost. After restoration we can see why the Dark Princess was considered so beautiful by British art historians,” explains Behl who studied painted reproductions of Ajanta by the Otani University, Kyoto; National Museum, Bhopal; and Government Museum, Thiruvananthapuram, to restore their grandeur. In another scene from the Mahajanaka Jataka titled Dancing Girl — where Bodhisattva’s queen has arranged for a dance performance to distract the king from renouncing palace life — the revel of the dancer has reappeared along with her supple torso while Bodhisattva Vajrapani in its restored avatar accentuates the majesty evident in his clear expressions and intricate crown. The restored Ajanta artworks are part of 100 mural paintings which Behl has restored out of 53,000 photographs he has taken of Indian and Asian art heritage over the years. “Sapio Analytics, the government’s advisory firm has already taken 15 of my restored images of Ajanta, Badami and other early Indian paintings for a Virtual City that it’s building to preserve India’s ancient cultural heritage,” says Behl whose snap of the King Mahajanaka mural in Ajanta was recently eternalised in the disaster-proof steel vaults of the Arctic World Archives in Norway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/digital-makeover-turns-back-time-on-ajantas-5th-century-murals/articleshow/79599243.cms||Mohua Das
December 7, 2020||India||BJP cites Golwalkar's education to defend naming of centre||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With both Congress and LDF speaking in one voice against the Union government’s move to name the new research facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology here after RSS ideologue MS Golwalkar, BJP politicians on Sunday issued statements supporting the decision. “He was a professor of Zoology in Benares Hindu University. He left his studies while doing his PhD in marine biology, and became an active member of RSS. It should be made clear on what basis is it being said that his name should not be used for the new facility,” Union minister V Muraleedharan said in Kasaragod. He said that Left has given the names of many Communist politicians, who were jailed in 1947 and 1962 for anti-national activities, to several institutions. UDF had named a government college in Perinthalmanna in Malappuram after an Indian Union of Muslim League (IUML) functionary, who was not even an MLA, he added. Muraleedharan said the Kerala BJP unit had no role in naming the institute and that it was a decision taken by its governing council. Speaking to reporters here, BJP state president K Surendran said a controversy was being created out of nothing. BJP functionary MT Ramesh said Golwalkar, an MSc degree holder, had a great vision about the scientific development of the country. He said Golwalkar’s ideas and teachings are relevant in present times. Ramesh countered the CPM, saying that the party should explain the basis for naming a football stadium in Kozhikode after EMS Namboothiripad. The Centre’s decision had evoked strong criticism, with LDF and UDF functionaries saying the move was made to deepen the communal divide. Even chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has expressed his opposition to naming of the institution after the RSS ideologue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-cites-golwalkars-education-to-defend-naming-of-centre/articleshow/79599246.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Farmer finds Rs 60 lakh diamond in patch he leased for Rs 200||BHOPAL: Lakhan Yadav’s dig of fortune is the stuff Panna’s diamond legends are made of. From marginal farmer, he can now call himself a millionaire, many times over. Yadav, 45, found his Diwali sparkle in a 10x10 patch of land that he had taken on lease last month for just Rs 200. The ‘pebble’ he dug up turned out to be a 14.98 carat diamond, which was auctioned for Rs 60.6 lakh on Saturday. “It has changed my life,” Yadav told TOI. He will never forget the moment he scooped up a handful of earth, stones and pebbles and found one that looked different. It shone when he rubbed the dust off it. With his heart hammering in his chest, he had taken it to the district diamond officer. Indeed, it was a diamond. Someone had captured the moment. Yadav, in a cowboy hat and a gamccha flung carelessly across the shoulders, a la poncho, looked every bit the prospector from the Wild West. And not a bit like a would-be millionaire. It hadn’t sunk in when TOI called him on Sunday to ask how it feels like to be a millionaire. Yadav allowed himself a quiet laugh and said: “I will not go for anything big. I am not an educated person and I’ll put the money in a fixed deposit to ensure my four kids get good education.” He is one of those evicted from Panna National Park when villages were removed. He owns 2 hectares bought with the compensation money, two buffaloes, and now a motorcycle that he bought with the first Rs 1 lakh he had got upon depositing the diamond with the district administraon. “I bought the motorcycle because my nephews insisted. I was happy with my bicycle,” he told TOI on Sunday. Yadav plans to go right back to digging the patch of shallow mine. “I hope to get another diamond. I’ll work on it for a few more months, perhaps get the lease renewed,” he said. This Diwali has been a real sparkler for prospectors in Panna. Four men, all from lower income group, dug up a diamond each in a span of 10 days. These diamonds and a few others — worth over Rs 1.5 crore — were auctioned in Panna in a three-day event that ended on Saturday. Watch MP farmer digs up 14.98 carat diamond, turns millionaire overnight||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farmer-finds-rs-60-lakh-diamond-in-patch-he-leased-for-rs-200/articleshow/79599248.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 7, 2020||India||Uttarakhand lost 50,000 hectares of forest cover in 20 years||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand, the birthplace of India’s major rivers like Ganga and Yamuna and home to the Himalayan ranges, is rapidly losing its forest land to commercial activities. Data of forest department exclusively accessed by TOI has revealed that the state, which has over 70% forest land, has lost about 50,000 hectares (ha) of its forests to various developmental activities in the past 20 years. The top six activities for which around 21,207 hectares of forest land in the state has been diverted are mining, hydropower plants, road construction, power distribution lines, water pipelines and irrigation. The highest amount of forest cover has been lost to mining (8,760 ha) followed by road construction (7,539 ha), power distribution lines (2,332 ha) and hydropower plant projects (2,295 ha). Other smaller activities together claimed 20,998 hectares of forest cover, the data reveals. The other activities comprise of laying down of optical fibres, railways, defence works, rehabilitation, construction of buildings etc. A district-wise analysis (from November 2000 to March 2020) shows that Dehradun (21,303 ha) lost the maximum forest area, followed by Haridwar which lost 6,826 hectares , Chamoli (3,636 ha), Tehri (2,671 ha) and Pithoragarh (2,451 ha). This diversion of forest land for commercial activities is alarming when seen in the backdrop of the latest report of the Forest Survey of India (India State Forest Report 2019) which indicates that three districts — Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar — have seen negative growth in their forest cover — of -6.4%, -4.2% and -2.7% respectively — from 2017 to 2019. Doon-based environmentalist and Padma Bhushan awardee Anil Joshi told TOI, “How can we ask for ‘green bonus’ from the Centre when we are not sensitive about our green cover?” Uttarakhand’s forest cover is spread over around 38,000 sq km, which is 71% of the state’s geographical area. It has 112 species of trees, 73 species of shrubs and 94 species of herbs, all of which, scientists say, are facing ‘the heat of development activities.’ “We strictly adhere to the norms of the Centre as per which mining has to be conducted only after due environmental clearances and in a sustainable manner and only upto a certain depth,” said Vinod Kumar, managing director of Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uttarakhand-lost-50000-hectares-of-forest-cover-in-20-years/articleshow/79599261.cms||Shivani Azad
December 7, 2020||World||Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani tests positive for Covid||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump says his personal attorney Rudy Giuliani has tested positive for coronavirus. The former New York mayor has traveled extensively to battleground states in recent weeks in an effort to help Trump subvert his election loss. Trump, who confirmed Giuliani's positive test in a Sunday afternoon tweet, wished him a speedy recovery. ``Get better soon Rudy, we will carry on!!!'' Trump wrote. Giuliani made an appearance earlier Sunday on Fox News to speak about his legal challenges in several states on behalf of Trump. The diagnosis comes more than a month after Trump lost reelection and more than two months after Trump himself was stricken with the virus in early October. Since then, a flurry of administration officials and others in Trump's orbit have also been sickened, including White House chief of staff Mark Meadows and Ben Carson, the secretary of housing and urban development. Last month, Giuliani's son, Andrew Giuliani, a special assistant to Trump, said he tested positive for coronavirus. ``I am experiencing mild symptoms, and am following all appropriate protocols, including being in quarantine and conducting contact tracing,'' the younger Giuliani said in a Nov. 20 tweet disclosing his COVID-19 positive test. The extraordinary spread in Trump's orbit underscores the cavalier approach the president has taken to a virus that has now killed more than 280,000 people in the U.S. alone. Those infected now also include the vice president, his chief of staff, the White House press secretary, advisers Hope Hicks and Stephen Miller, as well as Trump's campaign manager and the chair of the Republican National Committee. Trump spent the waning days of his campaign trying to persuade the American public that the virus was receding, and repeatedly claimed it would miraculously ``disappear'' after Nov. 3. Instead, the country is experiencing a record-breaking spike in infections. White House coronavirus task force coordinator Dr. Deborah Birx on Sunday offered tacit criticism of Trump's attitude on the virus during an interview on NBC's ``Meet the Press.'' Asked about Trump and other administration members flouting public health experts' warnings to avoid large gatherings and calls to wear masks, Birx replied that some leaders are ``parroting'' myths and called the pandemic ``the worst event that this country will face.'' ``And I think our job is to constantly say those are myths, they are wrong and you can see the evidence-base,'' Birx added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-lawyer-rudy-giuliani-tests-positive-for-covid/articleshow/79599264.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||India, US gear up to share maritime military intel||NEW DELHI: India and the US are gearing up to actively share maritime military intelligence through a recently concluded pact, even as New Delhi has also inked ‘white shipping’ agreements with 21 countries to enhance “situational awareness” in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). The bilateral pact, called the Maritime Information Sharing Technical Arrangement (MISTA) lays down the protocols for the exchange of intelligence in real time, and will significantly enhance the level of cooperation between the Indian and US navies, sources said. The ‘white shipping’ pacts, operationalised with countries ranging from the US, UK, France and Australia to Brazil, Israel, Vietnam, Oman and Mauritius, primarily involve dynamic exchange of information on merchant ships traversing the high seas. No country can do it all alone. Well over 100,000 ships transit through the IOR annually, for instance, accounting for 66% of the world’s oil, 33% of bulk cargo and 50% of container shipments. MISTA is about the military domain. With the IOR also becoming heavily militarised, India is particularly concerned about the ever-expanding Chinese naval forays into what it considers its own strategic backyard. “A comprehensive maritime domain awareness through a collaborative effort among like-minded countries is key to detecting, deterring and defeating conventional and unconventional threats in the IOR,” a source said. “India plans to stitch up ‘white shipping’ pacts with 36 countries and three multi-national constructs. The MISTA with the US goes well beyond these pacts. A tool for two-way connectivity, it will make intelligence flow between the two navies smoother,” he added. MISTA was concluded along with the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA)during the ‘two-plus-two’ dialogue between India and the US in October, as was then reported by TOI. BECA, the fourth and final foundational agreement to be inked with the US, will allow India to get access to advanced US satellite imagery, topographical and aeronautical digital data to enhance the accuracy of its missiles and armed drones as well as long-range navigation of military aircraft. India had earlier inked the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) with the US in 2002, which was followed by the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016, and then the Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) in 2018. “Information is a critical building block towards ensuring comprehensive maritime security,” Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said last week. Towards this end, the Information Fusion Centre-IOR in Gurgaon, which was commissioned in 2018, has established itself as the “hub of maritime security information” in the IOR. “International liaison officers from 13 countries have been invited to join the centre. Three have already joined, with three more likely to join shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-us-gear-up-to-share-maritime-military-intel/articleshow/79599263.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 7, 2020||World||India, US gear up to share maritime military intel||NEW DELHI: India and the US are gearing up to actively share maritime military intelligence through a recently concluded pact, even as New Delhi has also inked ‘white shipping’ agreements with 21 countries to enhance “situational awareness” in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). The bilateral pact, called the Maritime Information Sharing Technical Arrangement (MISTA) lays down the protocols for the exchange of intelligence in real time, and will significantly enhance the level of cooperation between the Indian and US navies, sources said. The ‘white shipping’ pacts, operationalised with countries ranging from the US, UK, France and Australia to Brazil, Israel, Vietnam, Oman and Mauritius, primarily involve dynamic exchange of information on merchant ships traversing the high seas. No country can do it all alone. Well over 100,000 ships transit through the IOR annually, for instance, accounting for 66% of the world’s oil, 33% of bulk cargo and 50% of container shipments. MISTA is about the military domain. With the IOR also becoming heavily militarised, India is particularly concerned about the ever-expanding Chinese naval forays into what it considers its own strategic backyard. “A comprehensive maritime domain awareness through a collaborative effort among like-minded countries is key to detecting, deterring and defeating conventional and unconventional threats in the IOR,” a source said. “India plans to stitch up ‘white shipping’ pacts with 36 countries and three multi-national constructs. The MISTA with the US goes well beyond these pacts. A tool for two-way connectivity, it will make intelligence flow between the two navies smoother,” he added. MISTA was concluded along with the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA)during the ‘two-plus-two’ dialogue between India and the US in October, as was then reported by TOI. BECA, the fourth and final foundational agreement to be inked with the US, will allow India to get access to advanced US satellite imagery, topographical and aeronautical digital data to enhance the accuracy of its missiles and armed drones as well as long-range navigation of military aircraft. India had earlier inked the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) with the US in 2002, which was followed by the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016, and then the Communications, Compatibility and Security Arrangement (COMCASA) in 2018. “Information is a critical building block towards ensuring comprehensive maritime security,” Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said last week. Towards this end, the Information Fusion Centre-IOR in Gurgaon, which was commissioned in 2018, has established itself as the “hub of maritime security information” in the IOR. “International liaison officers from 13 countries have been invited to join the centre. Three have already joined, with three more likely to join shortly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/india-us-gear-up-to-share-maritime-military-intel/articleshow/79599267.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 7, 2020||India||Covid can cause permanent damage to lungs, says study||MEERUT: A research by Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, has found that Covid-19 in some patients can lead to irreversible and permanent lung damage, rendering them irrecoverable, and leaving lung transplantation as the only option for survival. Meerut-born Dr Ankit Bharat, chief of thoracic surgery and surgical director of the lung transplant program at the hospital in Chicago, had also conducted the first lung transplant on a Covid-19 patient in the US in June 2020. Dr. Bharat, who is also the principal investigator of the study published in peer-reviewed Science Translational Medicine journal of the Science Magazine, said organ transplantation may become more frequent for victims of the most severe forms of Covid-19. “We provided explicit evidence that Covid-19 can cause permanent damage to lungs in some patients for whom lung transplantation is the only hope for survival,” Dr Bharat told TOI. “The lungs affected by Covid-19 also showed striking similarities to the lungs of patients with a condition called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis — which causes lung tissue to get thick and stiff, making it difficult for the body to take in oxygen. As in pulmonary fibrosis, we found that Covid-19 led to the recruitment of circulating immune cells called monocytes which are likely recruited to the lung to kill the virus. In a fibrotic lung, these cells also promote the formation of fibrotic scar tissue. These cells can be easily and safely sampled and might also help mark patients who are failing to recover from Covid-19,” explains Scott Budinger, MD, Ernest S. Bazley professor and chief of pulmonary and critical care medicine at Northwestern Medicine, and senior author of the study. “With about 5.5 million active Covid-19 infections currently in the US and thousands of new cases daily, the need for lung transplantation will grow,” said Dr Bharat. “By using information from our study, we hope more patients can receive lung transplants and that new treatments will be developed to prevent permanent lung damage,” he said. On May 26, surgeons in Austria had performed the world’s first known lung transplant to save the life of a Covid-19 survivor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-can-cause-permanent-damage-to-lungs-says-study/articleshow/79599294.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 7, 2020||India||Parody songs for Kerala polls become latest victim of Covid||KOCHI: For political parties and candidates, using parodies of popular movie songs as an effective tool to woo voters and intensify election campaign has been a trend for years. But, with Covid-19 having affected the release of new movies in all languages for nearly eight months now, unavailability of new songs has given a tough time to parody song makers in the run-up to the three-phase Kerala local body polls starting Tuesday. Most of them had to use old movies songs, drama and folk songs to meet the requirements of their ‘political customers’. “The essence and effectiveness of parody lie in the newness and popularity of the song used. Most songs we used this time were from movies that released before the lockdown. Though many movies have released via OTT, only a few songs like Vathilkale Vellaripravu from Sufiyum Sujathayum became popular. Other songs were Kalakatha from Ayyapanum Koshiyum and Manamariyunnolu from Porinju Mariyam Jose. Drama and folk songs were also widely used this time,” said Abdul Khadar, a parody song maker, who made over 300 parody songs over the last one month for all political parties. Parody song makers said that the local body election campaign has given work to many singers, musicians and lyricists, whose livelihoods were severely affected by the pandemic. Many new artists have entered parody song making to survive the financial crunch caused by Covid. Besides songs, parody videos too are in demand this time as most candidates are relying on campaign via social media due to Covid restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parody-songs-for-kerala-polls-become-latest-victim-of-covid/articleshow/79599305.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 7, 2020||India||Jugalbandi: Nine sets of twins clear medical entrance in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: There has been a rush of twins into MBBS courses in Gujarat this year, with as many as nine sets of them taking admission in various medical colleges. Last year the number was seven. Rahil Talati refused to seek admission in the coveted government-run medical colleges in the state despite a high score of 641 marks (out of 720) in NEET 2020. He chose Ahmedabad-based NHL Municipal Medical College because his twin brother Rushil secured 570 marks and could get a seat there. Having studied together all through, Rahil did not want to part ways. “Rahil and Rushil have always had healthy competition,” said father of the twins Dr Ashish Talati, who is a practising radiologist. Their mother Dr Hetal is a pathologist. The father said he introduced his two sons to architects, engineers, CAs. “But in the end, both chose medicine,” said Dr Talati. Like the Talati twins, Divya Prajapati, with a NEET score of 536, and Disha Prajapati, with 529, have secured admission in GMERS Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jugalbandi-nine-sets-of-twins-clear-medical-entrance-in-gujarat/articleshow/79599313.cms||Bharat Yagnik
December 7, 2020||India||Bengal polls: Unease in Congress over delay in tie-up with Left||NEW DELHI: Disappointment laced with exasperation prevails in Congress over the failure of the party to announce an alliance with the Left for West Bengal elections, with leaders arguing that the swiftness of challenger BJP and the ruling Trinamool Congress in starting their campaign can render a delayed “third force” irrelevant. After Rahul Gandhi last week held a meeting with state unit leaders to take stock of the preparedness for assembly battle, there was a sense of disbelief that the leadership stopped short of a final word on the alliance. While an overwhelming bloc of participants demanded a tie-up with CPM, Rahul merely said a decision would be taken by Sonia Gandhi. “Congress and Left are already holding joint programmes on the ground. We are targeting TMC. CPM has already announced its readiness for an alliance. But a formal announcement has its own importance in terms of messaging. Why this unnecessary delay,” said a senior leader in disbelief, sharing the sense of his colleagues. Bengal is poised for a titanic battle, with BJP moving with alacrity to build on its massive gains in Lok Sabha elections and TMC showing the urgency to counter the rival. Given their clash, there is a fear that a “third force” may just be squeezed out of the contest, which is at the root of the worry in Congress ranks. With Congress and the Left both emerging as TMC rivals, especially after chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s poaching of state Congress, the race is for mobilising the opposition votes. A delay in positioning itself as a force of some credibility may push even the secular anti-TMC voters towards the aggressive BJP, it is feared. As it is, there is a long lament in Congress ranks that the decision of the CPM leadership to break the alliance after the last assembly polls opened the space for BJP to slip into the oppositional vacuum in Bengal politics. For the secular opposition in Bengal, the best hope would be that elections return a badly hung house where chief rival Trinamool Congress is hamstrung without an ally but where BJP too does not have a chance to climb to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-polls-unease-in-congress-over-delay-in-tie-up-with-left/articleshow/79599319.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 7, 2020||World||13 arrested at London kisaan rally as Congress supporters also show up and put on their own rally||Thirteen people were arrested at a large kisaan car rally held in London on Sunday at which thousands of Indian-origin people, mainly British Sikhs, descended upon the India High Commission to show solidarity with the farmers who are agitating in India. Around 35 cars took part in a separate smaller Kisaan car rally, which was held at the same time in the same place opposite India House, organised by Indian Overseas Congress (IOC) UK. At the main rally, organised by the Federation of Sikh Organisations, hundreds drove round Aldwych in a convoy of cars and trucks waving flags and honking cars whilst thousands more turned up on foot to chant slogans. The Metropolitan Police said that13 arrests at that were all made for breaching Covid regulations but that four people were de-arrested after they provided police with their contact details and issued with a fine. The other nine remained in custody on Sunday night. Three teenagers who were seen to set off a firework towards a crowd were spoken to by police and their fireworks were confiscated. Vishwesh Negi, Minister for Political, Press & Information, at the High Commission of India, said the High Commission had been given notification that permission had been sought from the Metropolitan Police for a drive past protest involving about 40 vehicles. “In the end about 700 vehicles participated in the rally,” he said. “The protesters gathered in large numbers around 3,500 to 4,000 in front of the High Commission flouting social distancing norms during a pandemic,” he said. “The police had given specific warning against a gathering of more than 30 people. The police eventually disposed the crowds. We could see that a few violent ones were arrested. As expected, it soon became clear that the gathering was led by anti -India separatists who had taken the opportunity of the farm protests in India to ostensibly back the farmers in India but use the opportunity to pursue their own anti-India agenda." He added the High Commission would be coordinating with the UK authorities to find out how such a gathering of thousands could take place without specific permission. Commander Paul Brogden said: “I would like to thank the officers who policed this protest under very challenging circumstances, and Londoners for their patience following the disruption to traffic caused by the numbers in attendance. We had issued a reminder urging those who were planning to attend to reconsider but, unfortunately, a number of people decided not to follow that advice. A proportionate policing plan was in place. “I would like to remind everyone that the capital remains in the midst of a pandemic; it is vital that we all play our part in the fight against Covid-19. “If you attend a gathering that breaches the regulations, you may be committing an offence.” The IOC UK supporters drove from Hounslow to Aldwych and then got out of their vehicles and stood opposite India House, barely differentiated from the main rally, holding placards saying 'We support our farmers. We are farmers not terrorists. No farmers no food.' Gurminder Randhawa, senior vice president of IOC UK said: "We wanted to show solidarity to farmers in India so we held our own protest. This was separate to the big protest. We want whatever the farmers want.” "The protest against agri reform bills in India is part of a democratic process. The Government of India is in talks with the protesters which are still ongoing. It is an internal issue of India,” Negi said. “In recent days, the High Commission has comprehensively briefed the relevant interlocutors in the UK Government on the fundamental features of the path breaking farming sector reforms initiated by the Government of India. The fact that currently the Government of India has reached out to the farmer organisations in India to address any concerns is part of the democratic decision-making process and exemplifies the spirit of responsive governance in India,” he added. Watch London: British Sikh groups protest to support farmers' agitation in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/13-arrested-at-london-kisaan-rally-as-congress-supporters-also-show-up-and-put-on-their-own-rally/articleshow/79599328.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 7, 2020||India||13 arrested at London kisaan rally as Congress supporters also show up and put on their own rally||Thirteen people were arrested at a large kisaan car rally held in London on Sunday at which thousands of Indian-origin people, mainly British Sikhs, descended upon the India High Commission to show solidarity with the farmers who are agitating in India. Around 35 cars took part in a separate smaller Kisaan car rally, which was held at the same time in the same place opposite India House, organised by Indian Overseas Congress (IOC) UK. At the main rally, organised by the Federation of Sikh Organisations, hundreds drove round Aldwych in a convoy of cars and trucks waving flags and honking cars whilst thousands more turned up on foot to chant slogans. The Metropolitan Police said that13 arrests at that were all made for breaching Covid regulations but that four people were de-arrested after they provided police with their contact details and issued with a fine. The other nine remained in custody on Sunday night. Three teenagers who were seen to set off a firework towards a crowd were spoken to by police and their fireworks were confiscated. Vishwesh Negi, Minister for Political, Press & Information, at the High Commission of India, said the High Commission had been given notification that permission had been sought from the Metropolitan Police for a drive past protest involving about 40 vehicles. “In the end about 700 vehicles participated in the rally,” he said. “The protesters gathered in large numbers around 3,500 to 4,000 in front of the High Commission flouting social distancing norms during a pandemic,” he said. “The police had given specific warning against a gathering of more than 30 people. The police eventually disposed the crowds. We could see that a few violent ones were arrested. As expected, it soon became clear that the gathering was led by anti -India separatists who had taken the opportunity of the farm protests in India to ostensibly back the farmers in India but use the opportunity to pursue their own anti-India agenda." He added the High Commission would be coordinating with the UK authorities to find out how such a gathering of thousands could take place without specific permission. Commander Paul Brogden said: “I would like to thank the officers who policed this protest under very challenging circumstances, and Londoners for their patience following the disruption to traffic caused by the numbers in attendance. We had issued a reminder urging those who were planning to attend to reconsider but, unfortunately, a number of people decided not to follow that advice. A proportionate policing plan was in place. “I would like to remind everyone that the capital remains in the midst of a pandemic; it is vital that we all play our part in the fight against Covid-19. “If you attend a gathering that breaches the regulations, you may be committing an offence.” The IOC UK supporters drove from Hounslow to Aldwych and then got out of their vehicles and stood opposite India House, barely differentiated from the main rally, holding placards saying 'We support our farmers. We are farmers not terrorists. No farmers no food.' Gurminder Randhawa, senior vice president of IOC UK said: "We wanted to show solidarity to farmers in India so we held our own protest. This was separate to the big protest. We want whatever the farmers want.” "The protest against agri reform bills in India is part of a democratic process. The Government of India is in talks with the protesters which are still ongoing. It is an internal issue of India,” Negi said. “In recent days, the High Commission has comprehensively briefed the relevant interlocutors in the UK Government on the fundamental features of the path breaking farming sector reforms initiated by the Government of India. The fact that currently the Government of India has reached out to the farmer organisations in India to address any concerns is part of the democratic decision-making process and exemplifies the spirit of responsive governance in India,” he added. Watch London: British Sikh groups protest to support farmers' agitation in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/13-arrested-at-london-kisaan-rally-as-congress-supporters-also-show-up-and-put-on-their-own-rally/articleshow/79599324.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 7, 2020||India||Foreign education grants help many in ‘creamy layer’||MUMBAI: Rs 180 crore: that is the cost borne by the Maharashtra government in the last decade for hundreds of students who flew out for a foreign education under an all-expenses paid, state-sponsored scheme. The beneficiaries included several whose annual family income exceeded the yearly fees at the top universities where they were admitted. While the really needy — a farmer’s son or an auto driver’s daughter — too applied, many of the scholarships were disbursed to those who needed no financial aid. The scheme foots the entire bill for Scheduled Caste and neo-Buddhist students, including tuition, living expenses, airfare, and ancillary charges like a laptop, books, with no upper limit. TOI accessed the details of the beneficiaries and found that between 2014 and 2020, scholarships were awarded to 379 candidates for post graduate or PhD studies abroad. Of these, 60 declared family income to be more than Rs 15 lakh a year. Another 115 pegged annual family income at more than Rs 6 lakh, the income ceiling that the social justice department was looking at introducing in May this year, but could not after a few protests. Sangharsh Aglave whose annual family income was Rs 53 lakh, Shwetali Tonpe (Rs 42 lakh), Aarush Tagade (Rs 38 lakh), Antariksh Waghere (Rs 35 lakh), Sanjyot Thite (Rs 35 lakh), Amit Rajbhoj (Rs 33 lakh), Pulkit Ghoderao (Rs 31 lakh), and Palash Patole (Rs 24 lakh) were awarded full-funded scholarship to study abroad. Another shocking trend that has emerged is that students, who are admitted to QS top 100-ranked universities and are applying for state grants, now prefer not to disclose their income. For instance, in 2020/21, seven awardees refused to divulge annual family income with their application. “The scheme was drawn up to benefit economically deprived students, but candidates who need no financial help are drawing the benefit,” said an IAS officer. Social justice and special assistance minister Dhananjay Munde agreed that the scheme needed a review. “These students definitely do not need any assistance or scholarship. Clearly, this scheme, without any income ceiling, has benefited many rich candidates. We are going to scientifically study this scheme and introduce criteria so that the poor can benefit,” said social justice and special assistance minister Dhananjay Munde. Over the years, kin of ministers and IAS officials have also been awarded this scholarship. “Even the central government runs a similar scheme, so do some other states, but all of them have set an income ceiling. Why should the state foot the bill for candidates who can afford to pay for their own education,” said a senior officer from the social justice department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/foreign-education-grants-help-many-in-creamy-layer/articleshow/79599331.cms||Hemali Chhapia
December 7, 2020||India||New tech to end the journey of guard vans of goods trains||NEW DELHI: Indian Railways is installing End of Train Telemetry (EoTT) equipment in goods trains, a new system to do away with guard vans and the practice of deploying guards at the end of such trains. This will also ensure all wagons remain intact when the train is moving. The first EoTT by a US technology giant has been installed in a freight train in East Coast Railway and the detailed test and trial has started. Sources said another equipment will be installed in another train in South Eastern Railway soon. This device is used to establish communication between the locomotive driver and the last wagon of the train to ensure that the train is running with all coaches and wagons as a complete unit. The procurement of such devices would cost around Rs 100 crore. Sources said the railways is procuring 10 such devices from the USA and South Africa for trial purposes. The technology has been successful in other countries. The railways had started planning this upgrade three years back. The railways will purchase 1,000 such devices from abroad. Banaras Locomotive Works in Varanasi has ordered 250 EoTT from South Africa and in the next one year all these will be installed in freight trains. In the next phase, 740 more such EoTT devices will be purchased. Currently, the railways operates around 7,000 goods trains on its network and nearly 16,000 guards are engaged for this purpose. Sources said the technology is cost effective as it replaces the requirement of a guard van. EoTT equipment is designed to do the guard’s job by giving indication to the loco driver in case of parting of wagon or coach from the rear side of the train. The EoTT system comprises two units; one unit called cab display unit fitted on the locomotive and the other is sense and brake unit fitted on the last coach or wagon of the train. A transmitter is fitted on a locomotive and a receiver is fitted at the end of the last wagon. The transmitter and the last wagon receiver exchange signals periodically to ensure that the train is running intact. In case there is a break in the communication between the two units, the driver gets a signal that the train has parted and accordingly the train has to be stopped to re-link the wagons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-tech-to-end-the-journey-of-guard-vans-of-goods-trains/articleshow/79599360.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 7, 2020||India||See stir doesn’t disrupt medicine supply: Chemist outfit to Modi||NEW DELHI: All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists, representing over 8.5 lakh wholesalers, distributors and retailers of medicines across the country, has raised concerns over the ongoing farmers’ agitation creating disruptions in supply of essential medicines as most production facilities are located in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh with their main depots in Ambala or Zirakpur. In a letter to PM Narendra Modi, the association has sought the government’s intervention to ensure there is no shortage in supply of medicines due to the protests. “We fear if the situation continues, there would be shortages of essential medicines. We request, therefore, kindly use your good offices to maintain supply of medicines by providing secure passage of medicine transporters,” the AIOCD said. Major drug manufacturing units, including those of big pharmaceutical companies as well as many contract manufacturers for multinational companies, are based in Sonepat, Baddi, Solan and various other districts of these two states. These units supply medicines not only for local consumption but also cater to major exports. Himachal alone supplies 35% of pharma formulations in Asia through its 700 manufacturing units. However, with farmers protesting over the new farm laws, various highways have been blocked, leading to disruptions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/see-stir-doesnt-disrupt-medicine-supply-chemist-outfit-to-modi/articleshow/79599367.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 7, 2020||Business||‘Consumers are shifting towards trusted brands’||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com For Mondelez India Foods MD Deepak Iyer, the challenges posed by the current pandemic are “opportunities”. He says the company’s in-home portfolio like biscuits and health drinks witnessed tailwinds, but the out-home-home part of chocolate business saw headwinds. However, it is improving with enhanced mobility of consumers… What are the key learnings from the pandemic? Black swan events, like Covid-19, test the mettle of the organisation and its team. To my mind, our biggest learning has come on the people side of the business, around the kind of leadership and behaviour that our team displayed, which has helped us navigate this crisis. What challenges has the new normal posed? I would rephrase challenges to opportunities. Consumers are gravitating towards trusted brands and this is where our investments in Cadbury Dairy Milk, Oreo, Bournvita and others have returned handsome dividends. When we saw consumers nesting at home during lockdowns, we launched a series of recipes with our brands to make and bake delicious food at home. When it was important to say ‘Thank You’ to so many selfless brothers and sisters like our healthcare workers, we changed the logo of Cadbury Dairy Milk for the first time in 70 years in India to say Thank You. How far has your business returned to normal? Our in-home portfolio like biscuits, health drinks and part of chocolate consumption witnessed tailwinds, whereas our out-of-home part of chocolate consumption saw headwinds. This is improving month on month with increased outdoor mobility of people. Our rural and small-town consumption has seen faster recovery than big cities. Overall, we are coming back strongly. When do you expect things to normalise? We don’t think things will ever get back to the normal (we have known so far) and, hence, it would be prudent to retool one’s business for the future. Businesses that will win need to establish stronger consumer and customer connections with trusted brands and a balanced portfolio that will service different price points and different occasions. They will need to have agile operating models and strong execution capabilities to withstand such disruptions in the future. Businesses with strong cash positions will prevail. And, most importantly, they will need to have winning teams with winning mindsets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/consumers-are-shifting-towards-trusted-brands/articleshow/79597427.cms||Namrata Singh
December 7, 2020||Patna||1 more doctor succumbs to coronavirus in state||PATNA: One more doctor in state succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. Dr Sidheshwar Prasad Sinha, a retired general surgeon of Bihar government, breathed his last at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P). Altogether 39 doctors have so far died due to Covid-19 in the state. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the 87-year-old doctor from Munger was admitted to the hospital on November 26 and put on non-invasive ventilator. “He was suffering from fever, cold and breathlessness. He had been on invasive ventilator for the last five days. His lungs were damaged due to the infection and he passed away on Sunday,” Dr Kumar said. Meanwhile, the number of Covid cases in the state increased to 2,39,126 on Sunday with 585 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Three more deaths on Sunday took the state’s Covid toll to 1,295. Patna, Purnia and Saran recorded one death each on Sunday. With this, the Covid toll in Patna district has risen to 336. With 572 people recovering from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, active cases stood at 5,393 and the number of patients discharged from the health facilities so far has reached 2,32,438. The state’s recovery rate remained at 97.2% on Sunday, around 2.8% higher than the country’s recovery rate of 94.3%. Altogether 1,25,904 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,54,28,602 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. Apart from the figures released by the health department, AIIMS-P registered five deaths. Apart from Dr Sinha, a 50-year-old man from Bhagwat Nagar and a 55-year-old man from Agamkuan in Patna also succumbed to the infection at the hospital. The other two victims were a 60-year-old man from Aurangabad and a 65-year-old woman from Bhojpur, Dr Kumar of AIIMS-P said. He said 18 patients from Anisabad, Saguna Mor, Rupaspur, Rajeev Nagar, Kankarbagh, Airport Road, Kumhrar, Buddha Colony and Barh in Patna and others from Saran, Rohtas and Begusarai were admitted to the hospital and 10 discharged on Sunday. The number of Covid patients at AIIMS-P stood at 174 on Sunday. No new Covid-19 death was reported at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. Patna reported 261 positive cases on Sunday. With this, the district’s tally has risen to 43,413. Active cases, however, stood at 1,996 in the state as 41,081 people have recovered from the virus, including 176 in the last 24 hours. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 27 Covid cases on Sunday, Katihar 26, Saharsa 16, Sitamarhi 16 and Kishanganj 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-more-doctor-succumbs-to-coronavirus-in-state/articleshow/79596888.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 7, 2020||Business||Venture debt co Alteria eyes Rs 1,000cr fund||Chennai: Venture debt firm Alteria Capital is raising its second venture debt fund — Fund II — of Rs 1,000 crore with an overallotment (greenshoe) option of Rs 750 crore. The firm has got markets regulator Sebi’s approval, and expects the fund’s first close to be in the first half of 2021 as it has already seen a “high level of interest”. It will be used to back startups across early and growth stages with cheque sizes of up to Rs 150 crore. There will also be an allocation for structured debt products aimed at later-stage companies that have a differentiated risk profile. “We have made three quarterly distributions even during Covid, which has been well received by investors in our first fund, many of whom have already conveyed their keenness to participate in the second fund as well,” Vinod Murali, co-founder and managing partner of Alteria Capital, said. Venture debt has gained relevance after the pandemic and is in demand as entrepreneurs seek buffer capital during the crisis and valuations do not meet expectations in equity funding. “Founders have also shown a tendency to have more control on fundraising timelines and debt can give them additional runway with minimal dilution,” Murali said. Alteria Capital’s Fund I, which has a corpus of Rs 962 crore, has backed companies like Rebel Foods, Lendingkart, Zestmoney, Dunzo, Portea, Toppr, and others.Alteria is also expanding its team by bringing in two venture debt professionals Ankit Agarwal and Punit Shah as partners. With its ability to recycle capital, Alteria believes it will effectively have over Rs 4,000 crore available for funding startups across venture debt and other structured solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/venture-debt-co-alteria-eyes-rs-1000cr-fund/articleshow/79597290.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 7, 2020||Patna||‘Representationof SC/ST in RS,council negligible’||PATNA: Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Sunday said due to lack of reservation for the members of scheduled caste and scheduled tribe in the legislative council and the Rajya Sabha, their number in these legislative bodies was “negligible”. Modi was addressing a meet organised by social group ‘Ambedkar Ke Log’ at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies on the occasion of 64th death anniversary of Babsaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Modi said the state assembly has 38 reserved seats for the SC and two seats for ST sections, whose MLAs also take part in the election of the Rajya Sabha candidates. “Since there is no quota for these sections in the legislative council and the Rajya Sabha, persons from these reserved categories do not find representation in significant numbers,” he added. Noting that the quota facility is the gift from Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi, he said it was during the National Front government supported by the BJP at the Centre in 1989 that Ambedkar got the ‘Bharat Ratna’ award, and also a portrait of him was put up in the Lok Sabha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/representationof-sc/st-in-rscouncil-negligible/articleshow/79596194.cms||Abhay Singh
December 7, 2020||Patna||Patna: Poor visibility delays 13 flights on Sunday||PATNA: Chaos prevailed at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here on Sunday after 13 flights were affected owing to poor visibility because of dense fog, especially in the morning hours. The social distancing norms and other Covid-19 safety protocols at the airport went for a toss as passengers stood in long queues to board flights. Several passengers complained that they were stuck at the airport for hours and not even informed about their flight status. Many raised questions over passenger management and customer services at the airport. Some even shared the pictures and videos of chaotic situation and long queues at terminal building on social networking sites. Imran Akhtar, a flyer wrote on Twitter, “Pathetic management at Patna airport, as more than 200 people are standing in a single queue for security check. Who will be responsible if anyone missed his/her flight due to long queue (sic).” Replying to the concerns of the passengers, Patna airport tweeted on Sunday: “We are facing congestion in terminal building since last few days due to rescheduling of flights/consequential delays because of fog/poor visibility in the morning hours. Airlines, CISF and AAI customer services staff are making continuous coordinated efforts to ensure that passengers don’t miss their flights (sic).” The minimum required visibility of 1,000m for landing of flights was achieved after 11am on Sunday, as per the information provided by the Patna Meteorological Centre. The first flight of Air India (which is the sixth flight in winter schedule) reached Patna airport from Bengaluru at 10.05am. The first flight of SpiceJet between Delhi and Patna was delayed for about 4 hours. Instead of 7.45am, it reached the city airport at 11.39am and departed at 12.33pm. Shashank Kumar, a flyer travelling to Delhi, said the airlines need to temporarily withdraw the early morning flights as it is only causing inconvenience to the passengers. Another flyer, Lokendra Singh, said it was a long wait for him and his family in front of GoAir counter for check-in. “There was huge crowd at the terminal building. Maintaining social distancing was out of question. I waited for more than an hour at the check-in counter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-visibility-delays-13-flights/articleshow/79596834.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||Principal’s ‘killer’ brother found dead in Vadodara||VADODARA: In a dramatic turn of events, the school teacher in Chhota Udepur district, who had stabbed his cousin, the 28-year-old principal on the morning of December 4, was found dead in a well in Haripura village of Naswadi taluka on Sunday afternoon. The body of 25-year-old Bharat Pithia, who was to get married on December 9, was spotted in the 70 foot deep well by locals working in the fields on the bank of Ashwin river nearby. Haripura is around 10 km from Linda village, where the victim Meraman Pithia was working as the principal of the government-run Model School for the past five years. Bharat was a teacher in Kolamba primary school for the last three years and both families lived in Naswadi town’s Ramdevnagar Society. Cops suspect Bharat jumped into the well either late on December 4 or on Saturday as his body had not decomposed. Sarpanch of Haripura village then informed police to fish out the body. “We did not find any identity card with the body. But some teachers with whom Bharat and slain cousin Meraman have worked, identified him,” said sub-inspector C D Patel of Naswadi police station. “We suspect that he committed suicide due to guilt, but this can be confirmed only after a thorough investigation,” Patel said. A team of policemen had also gone to Junagadh’s Selara village, the native of the two brothers. “With Bharat too ending his life, the mystery over the reason behind the brutal attack has only deepened,” said a police officer. At around 7am on December 4, Bharat had gone on the stabbing spree. When Kajal opened the door at 7 am, Bharat stabbed her and since she was holding her daughter, the kid was also injured. When Meraman rushed to her rescue, he stabbed him repeatedly in the neck and chest. Meraman died on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/principals-killer-brother-found-dead/articleshow/79595833.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Home ownership: Ahmedabad woman accuses daughter of cheating||AHMEDABAD: A Ghatlodia woman on Sunday filed a complaint of cheating and breach of trust against her daughter, alleging that the daughter used fraudulent means to have a house-ownership documents signed. In her complaint filed with Sola police, Ami Dave, 56, a resident of Vaibhavlakshmipark in Ghatlodia, states that she lives with her son Maulik and her daughter-in-law. She said her house is co-owned by her, her brother Dilip, and her son Maulik. The house was bought by the three on April 20 this year. Dave said that she was alone at her home on August 24 when her daughter Dimpi Pandya, 25, visited her. Pandya took her mother to a hospital where the latter was given some medicines. Then Dave was escorted to a government office. Pandya told her mother to sign some documents. Pandya told her mother that it was part of a government procedure. The mother was told that the signatures would enable Pandya to offer care to her. Pandya also told her mother that she would have to respond positively if some government officer asked her if she agreed with the content of the documents. Dave followed her daughter’s advice and signed the documents. After completing the procedure, she went home. Later she sensed something suspicious, so she told her son about the sequence of events. Her son found out that she had been taken to the sub-registrar’s office in Sola. He also learnt that Pandya had listed herself and her husband Kaushik as the co-owners of the house. The complaint was filed thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/home-ownership-woman-accuses-daughter-of-cheating/articleshow/79598567.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar government takes steps to regularise academic sessions in universities||PATNA: As the Covid-19 pandemic has turned the academic sessions of almost all the universities in Bihar topsy-turvy, the chancellor and the state government have been striving hard to bring the derailed sessions back to rail. The Raj Bhavan has already directed the universities to complete all the pending examinations of last sessions at the earliest so that the new academic sessions could be started on time. At a recent meeting held at Raj Bhavan, the registrars of different universities were clearly told to streamline the status of online teaching in their universities and finish all the examinations as soon as possible. The registrars were also directed to hold their annual convocations for the last sessions in the second fortnight of January, 2021. Most universities, including Patna, Patliputra, Magadh, Munger and Purnea universities, have not completed their undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) examinations as yet. Examinations of Degree Part I honours and PG semester II and IV courses have just started in Patna University. Other universities have also started their degree examinations. Moreover, admission of students to various UG and PG courses for the current academic session 2020-21 are going on. The state education department is also contemplating to convene a high-level meeting of the vice-chancellors (VCs) and other officials of all the universities soon to review the progress of higher education in the state and decide ways and means for improving the situation. The VCs have been directed to prepare a document on the latest situation prevailing in their respective universities. “Universities and colleges have already suffered much due to their prolonged closure during the lockdown and their restricted functioning thereafter,” an official of the state education department said. The Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha has appreciated the concern of the chancellor as well as the state education department towards restoration of academic normalcy by regularszing teaching and examinations in colleges and universities. “However, foolproof measures must be taken before opening of colleges and universities for normal academic activities as the fear of the pandemic is yet to be over,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-govt-takes-steps-to-regularise-academic-sessions-in-universities/articleshow/79596910.cms||B K Mishra
December 7, 2020||Patna||Engg student among four killed in separate incidents||PATNA: Four people, including an engineering student, were killed and another was shot at and critically injured in Nawada, Patna, Saran and Siwan districts in the last 24 hours. According to reports reaching the police headquarters, 20-year-old girl Babita Kumari’s body was found hanging from a tree in a dense forest under Rajouli police station in Nawada district on Sunday afternoon. A resident of Satgama village in Koderma district of Jharkhand, she was staying at her maternal uncle's house at Sirsia village under the Rajouli police station area in Nawada district. In another incident, a 25-year-old youth Saurabh Kumar, was shot at and critically injured at Patel Nagar under the Masaurhi police station area in Patna district on Sunday evening. Saurabh had received five bullet injuries in the incident. A police officer at Masaurhi police station said that Saurabh was attacked when he was on way to a medical store to purchase medicines from his native village Charma. In Siwan, a 24-year-old engineering student Asgar Ali was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals when he was walking on the road after having his dinner late on Saturday night. Police said Ali was living with his relative Hasir Ahmad at Chiktoli locality in Siwan district headquarters town. The deceased’s father Ashfaq Mian told police that his son had no enmity with anybody. The assailants fired at Asgar when he was talking over phone with an acquaintance. An FIR has been lodged with the GB Nagar police station in connection with the incident. In Saran, a 20-year-old youth Arun Kumar Gupta was killed near Prasadi Mor on Ekma-Parsa Road under Ekma police station on Sunday evening. The deceased's father Bhuti Prasad said that Gupta was running a fast food shop at Parsa bazar. Prasad lodged an FIR with the Ekma police station against unidentified criminals. In another incident, the Panapur police recovered the body of a 44-year-old man on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Laxman Ram. The deceased’s wife Geeta Devi told police that Laxman was missing since Saturday. The reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/engg-student-among-four-killed-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/79596219.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Patna||Don Bosco ranks 2nd in crossword contest||PATNA: The team of V Krishna Sai Gayatri and Nellore Dharshita from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Hyderabad, on Sunday won the grand finale of 8th edition of the annual national inter-school CCCC Cryptic Crossword Contest (CCCC 2020). The team of Shashwat Sanjeev and Sarthak Sanjeev from Don Bosco Academy, Patna, won the 2nd spot, while Vijval Ekbote and Harshul Sagar of The Mother's International School, New Delhi, were on 3rd spot. The Mother's International’s team had won the tournament last year. The CCCC, which is an offline contest, adopted an online format for the current edition keeping in mind the prevailing pandemic situation. “Teams from more than 1,500 schools spread across 110 cities and towns in India first went through two preliminary stages at the end of which 40 school teams qualified for the two-day grand finale which began on Saturday,” Amitabh Ranjan, chief operating officer of the Extra-C, a civil society initiative that organizes the contest, told TOI on Sunday. “A school team consists of two students. The contest was open for students of Std VII to XII of schools affiliated to any of the recognized school boards in India,” Ranjan said. The grand finale comprised a quarter-final round, a semi-final round and the final round. At the end of the semi-final, eight teams advanced to the final round. The grand finale was held through Zoom Meeting and was hosted by Ms Rohma Siddiqui from New Delhi. Present on the occasion were the chief guest Col Deepak Gopinath (retd) from Bengaluru, chief arbiter Ramki Krishnan from Chennai, special guest Satyen Nabar from Mumbai and chief mentor of the contest Vivek Kumar Singh, a senior IAS officer, from Patna. Col Gopinath, Krishnan and Nabar are globally renowned crossword enthusiasts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/don-bosco-ranks-2nd-in-crossword-contest/articleshow/79596314.cms||Madan Kumar
December 7, 2020||Business||Easier norms for contactless use may boost cards||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India’s decision to hike the limit on contactless payments without entering a PIN to Rs 5,000 from Rs 2,000 earlier is expected to level the playing field in favour of cards. The development comes at a time when QR (quick response) code transactions are seeing runaway growth. In India, QR code-based payments have been increasing on the back of the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), which saw a record 2.2 billion transactions in November. Two key advantages for merchants in the use of QR codes is that they can start accepting payments without spending on point-of-sale (PoS) devices, and it is contactless — a key feature during the pandemic. Although contactless or NFC (near field communication) -based cards were launched by Visa over five years ago, the pickup has been slow. Initially, there was a shortage of acceptance devices, which has now been covered with over one million PoS machines having NFC capability. According to payments infrastructure firm Pine Labs CEO Amrish Rau, the share of contactless in its total transactions has increased from 2% in January 2019 to over 12% in October 2020. “All our terminals are now accepting contactless,” said Rau. Besides providing merchants with the PoS machines, Pine Labs is also making available to merchants a mobile application that allows shopkeepers to use any NFC-enabled smartphone to receive contactless card payments. Rau points out that given that average card transactions on their platform is Rs 2,800, the Rs 5,000 limit covers most use cases. According to Mastercard vice-president Vikas Sarogi, the exponential growth in the last few months is because of a shift to a hygienic way to pay and the increase in limits will hasten the cash-to-digital shift. Payments networks are extremely bullish about contactless transactions as the general public has now overcome fears stoked by social media rumours on how ‘Wi-Fi’ payments can be compromised. Payments experts say that the incidence of fraud on NFC cards is lower. Visa now sees 44% of its transactions in the Asia-Pacific region through contactless cards. “As evident in recent months, there is strong consumer preference for digital payments and the new enhanced limits for e-mandates and contactless cards will help transition millions of Indian consumers from cash to fast, convenient and secure forms of digital payments, “said T R Ramachandran, group country manager at Visa India. The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which has launched UPI, is also bullish on contactless transactions. A little known fact is that the NPCI is the largest card issuer in India. It also issued contactless cards. Even the old-generation cards without NFC can be used for contactless payments by dematerialising them and using them through a mobile application. Many smartwatches are enabled for NFC payments. SBI recently tied up with Titan to enable contactless payments through their smartwatch. According to NPCI’s MD & CEO Dilip Asbe, the RBI decision to enhance the limit for contactless is a major positive for RuPay cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/easier-norms-for-contactless-use-may-boost-cards/articleshow/79597438.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||A house they ‘printed’ in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: After graduation from IIT Roorkee, Shashank Shekhar got associated with a corporate major and got an opportunity to see the construction process up close. “I realized that the entire process is very labour-intensive and quality of construction often depends on quality of labour. Around 2014-15, the buzz of 3D printing had already started and some of the elements were also being used for construction technology in Europe,” remembers Shekhar. As he got admission for his doctoral studies at IIT Gandhinagar (IIT-Gn), Shekhar nurtured his dream, and later got support of two fellow doctoral students – Ankita Sinha and Rishabh Mathur – from mechanical engineering department to realize it. The trio set up their startup MiCoB right at the institute, that now has India’s biggest 3D concrete printer according to their claims. The process involves principles of a 3D printer where a material is poured into the printing nozzle that makes layers upon layers of a selected design. Once it acquires desired hardness, it can be stacked together to create desired shapes. The team members said that the technology is now being explored across the globe as a way of sustainable, economic and less time-consuming ways for low-cost housing, shelters, infrastructure and architectural applications. “We have developed a specialized fibre-reinforced material that goes into making the structures. The printing process and longer lifespan of the concrete pieces can reduce our carbon footprint considerably,” said Shekhar, adding that they started their work by installing concrete furniture on IIT-Gn campus. The team said that the current tech allows them to go up to 50 metre x 10 metre x 10 metre structure without cold joints. A specialized software is also developed for the rendering of printing simulation. The team has filed for three patents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-house-they-printed/articleshow/79598560.cms||Parth Shastri
December 7, 2020||Patna||Saran officials gear up for vaccination against Covid-19||CHHAPRA: Addressing the district-level task force for vaccination against Covid-19, Saran DM Subrat Kumar Sen on Saturday directed the health officials to gear up for mass vaccination and prepare a data of the health department officials, employees and upload it on the official website. The DM also directed the civil surgeon (CS) and other health officials to visit different blocks of the district everyday and prepare a data of health workers such as doctors, nurses, ASHA, laboratory technicians, ‘anganbari’ workers and persons engaged in spray of disinfectants. Stressing the importance of cold chain maintenance, the DM directed the CS, Dr M Jha, to get the cold chain room ready with equipment and to procure those equipment which are not available and also to coordinate with WHO (World Health Organization), Care India, UNICEF (United Nations International Children Education Fund), UNDP (United Nations Development program) and others who are working in the mission. Sen also said that the municipal commissioner has been made the nodal officer for vaccination of urban people. Health workers of government and private hospitals will be vaccinated on priority basis. “Altogether 12 patients were tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday bringing the total number of patients to 6,018. Out of this 5,849 patients have been cured. There are only two containment zones, one at Chhatar Chhapra under Dighwara block and the other at Itwa village under Garkha block. Prior to this, 339 containment zones were closed after all patients were cured,” Dr Jha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/saran-officials-gear-up-for-vaccination-against-covid-19/articleshow/79596870.cms||H K Verma
December 7, 2020||Patna||Railways reschedules eight pairs of special trains||PATNA: The railways has rescheduled at least eight pairs of special trains either originating from or passing through the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) from December 8. The decision has been taken following the increase in the speed limit of passenger trains. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has posted details about the departure and arrival of each special passenger train on the ‘enquiry.indianrail.gov.in’ portal following the increase in speed limit from 110kmph to 130kmph on the Jhajha-Patna-Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction mainline route. “The Bhagalpur-Gandhidham special (09451/09452) will now leave Bhagalpur every Monday at 6.30am and reach Gandhidham on Wednesday at 8am,” the CPRO said, adding, on its return journey, it will leave Gandhidham every Friday at 5.40pm and reach Bhagalpur on Sunday at 8.15pm. Similarly, the weekly special Pune-Darbhanga train (01033/01034) will leave Pune every Wednesday at 4.15pm and reach Darbhanga on Friday at 6.40am. On its return journey, the train will leave Darbhanga every Friday at 4.47pm and reach Pune on Sunday at 7.20am. “The Jaynagar-New Delhi special (02561/02562) will leave Jaynagar daily at 5.20pm and reach New Delhi the next day at 3.40pm. On its return journey, it will leave New Delhi at 9.15pm and reach Jaynagar the next day at 7.23pm,” Kumar said. The weekly Kolkata-Agra Cantt special (02319/02320) will leave Kolkata every Wednesday at 1.10pm and reach Agra Cantt the next day at 10.40am. On its return journey, it will leave Agra Cantt every Thursday at 5.50pm and reach Kolkata the next day at 4.40pm. “Besides, the Darbhanga-Amritsar special (05211/05212) which runs five days in a week, will leave Darbhanga at 5.20pm and reach Amritsar at 1.45pm. On its return journey, it will leave Amritsar at 7.15pm and reach Darbhanga at 2.55pm,” he said. Meanwhile, the Anand Vihar-Raxaul special (05273/05274) will leave Anand Vihar daily at 5.30pm and reach Raxaul the next day at 5.38pm. “Likewise, the Bhagalpur-Jammu Tawi special (05097/05098) will leave Bhagalpur every Thursday at 11.55pm and reach Jammu Tawi on Saturday at 1pm. On its return journey, it will leave Jammu Tawi every Tuesday at 10.45pm and reach Bhagalpur on Thursday at 9.55am,” Kumar said and added, the Shalimar-Gorakhpur special (05021/05022) will leave Shalimar every Tuesday at 8pm and reach Gorakhpur the next day at 4.30pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-reschedules-eight-pairs-of-special-trains/articleshow/79596212.cms||Kumod Verma
December 7, 2020||Patna||Probe ordered into ‘PFI posters’ found in Katihar, Purnia||PATNA: The state government on Sunday ordered an investigation into controversial posters put up on the premises of Katihar district collectorate and some other places in Purnia and Darbhanga districts allegedly by the Popular Front of India (PFI) reminding people of the Babri mosque demolition on December 6, 1992. Deputy CM and senior BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad said, “The home department and the Katihar police have taken cognizance of the matter. Those found to be involved in vitiating the social harmony will be taken to task. District authorities have been asked to conduct a thorough investigation.” Tarkishore Prasad is the BJP MLA from Katihar. While posters were put up in Katihar on Saturday, similar posters were found in Purnia and Darbhanga districts on Sunday, which were seized and separate FIRs were lodged. The development came barely a few days after simultaneous searches carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on different locations of PFI in Darbhanga and Purnia districts on Thursday.The posters, having pictures of the Babri mosque at Ayodhya were pasted on the walls of the Katihar collectorate building, which houses the offices of the DM and the SP besides other senior officials. “The message is written in both Hindi and Urdu and the address of the outfit mentioned as Delhi,” a police officer posted at Katihar Sahayak police station said. Katihar SP Vikas Kumar on Sunday said, “A case under relevant sections of the Property Defacement Act has been lodged with the Katihar Sahayak police station and investigation is underway. In addition, an alert has been sounded across the district in the wake of the Babri mosque demolition day.” Similar posters were put up on Jail Road and Astha Chowk in Purnia and a few places in Darbhanga’s Singhwara police station on Sunday. Purnia SP Vishal Sharma said, “We have received information about some posters put up by the PFI on the local jail road and some other locations in the district headquarters town today. They are being verified and proper action will be taken accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-ordered-into-pfi-posters-found-in-katihar-purnia/articleshow/79596254.cms||Ramashankar
December 7, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: BSP MP Atul Rai booked for defaming complainant, kin||VARANASI: Bahujan Samaj Party MP from Ghosi Atul Rai, who is in jail since winning 2019 Lok Sabha election after being arrested on rape charges, has been booked in another case under IT Act on the complaint of the girl, whom he is accused of raping. SSP Amit Pathak told TOI on Sunday that the girl met him and gave a complaint against MP Atul Rai and his close aide Sudhir Singh, saying they were defaming her through social media. The SSP asked Lanka police to register a case and initiate investigation. Lanka police registered a case under Section 66e of IT Act (violation of privacy) against Rai and his accomplice Sudhir Singh on December 4. In her complaint, the girl alleged that she lodged rape case against Rai, the aides of the BSP MP and Mau MLA Mukhtar Ansari are harassing her and her family and have made their lives difficult. On Rai’s diktat, Sudhir is defaming her and her family on Facebook by accusing her of being a blackmailer, who mints money from people by lodging fake cases against them. She said her mother and brother have fallen ill due to the agony and they are being compelled to commit suicide. The case has been filed against Rai and his aide after Cantt police registered a case against the girl on the order of chief judicial magistrate court on November 23. Rai’s brother Pavan Kumar Singh had filed a petition after which the CJM ordered Cantt police to lodge an FIR against the girl and her friend Satyam Prakash Rai for investigation of the documents submitted by her in different cases. Few days after Rai filed nomination from Ghosi parliamentary constituency as BSP candidate, the girl from Ballia had lodged an FIR against him, accusing him of raping her repeatedly and threatening to make video of the act viral on social media. She alleged Rai called her to his flat at Chitaipur, Varanasi in March 2018 on pretext of introducing her to his wife, but he raped her and made a video of the act. After that, he raped her several times, she alleged. Rai contested the election as absconder and surrendered before the court of judicial magistrate on June 22, 2019. Lanka police filed a chargesheet against Rai who is in jail since then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bsp-mp-atul-rai-booked-for-defaming-complainant-kin/articleshow/79598565.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Parked on paper, bad-air fight only an idea||NEW DELHI: Over a year after a new parking policy was notified by Delhi government on the directives of the Supreme Court, things remain mostly unchanged on the ground. The model parking rules haven’t been implemented in the three pilot project sites at Krishna Nagar, Kamla Nagar and Lajpat Nagar and the host of other local parking area management plans are only on paper. Among the host of steps that the parking policy had envisaged were the creation of local area parking plans for the city, higher on-street parking rates, use of new technology like radio frequency ID and parking meters, and no-parking zones and space management in residential areas. Many of these steps were meant to curb pollution. The importance of the policy in ensuring better air can be gauged from the anti-pollution Environment (Protection & Conservation) Authority — now defunct — listing parking on the top of the list of key works that needed expediting and implementation. EPCA’s letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar had said, “On August 10, the Supreme Court directed that parking plans be implemented across Delhi and NCR. EPCA has discussed this with the municipal corporations and sent an advisory on the implementation.” The letter underlined that higher parking rates would be an important element in mobility transformation. The Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules, 2019, provided four months after its notification for the preparation and implementation of local parking area plans. A government official explained, “A parking area plan details the distribution and usage of parking space pedestrians, cyclists and private and public vehicles through distribution of on-street and off-street parking space and other facilities. The concept was mooted in Master Plan Delhi 2021.” A committee led by the transport commissioner was set up to fix the new parking rates, meant mainly to discourage on-street parking. But the city continues to run on the old price regime. A civic official said that the rates, when decided, will be cleared by the transport ministry. Other proposals like enforcement of no-parking zones 500 metres from all multi-level parking sites, proof of parking space for purchase of transport vehicles and use of technology have remained a pipe dream. The official claimed that plans were being prepared for several localities when the Covid-19 outbreak intervened. The three model parking sites in Lajpat, Kamla and Krishna Nagar, though begun, haven’t progressed. In Lajpat Nagar III, the residents and South Delhi Municipal Corporation haven’t come to an agreement on the spaces to be shared. Amarjit Singh, president, Lajpat Nagar III RWA, claimed letters had been sent to the lieutenant governor, SDMC commissioner and other senior officials last December and again in January requesting changes in the parking plan. But there was no response, he said. “The civic agency has designated areas for parking by residents, by visitors parking and no-parking zones,” Singh said. “But the residents objected to the need to park their personal vehicles 200 metres from their houses while allowing visitors’ vehicles in front of their houses. SDMC started booking residents not adhering to these new regulations. We requested minor changes in the plan and at least leniency for vehicles bearing the RWA sticker. But we haven’t heard anything more on these.” The Kamla Nagar parking management plan was implemented after approval by EPCA in September 2019. The project involved utilisation of a centrally located mall’s parking lot by local residents at night to ease the traffic problems in congested lanes, the shifting of hawkers from the area and no-parking or one-side parking on the remaining streets. Some work was done, but it's back to status quo. Even the pedestrianised stretches of Madelia and Agrasen roads are back to being used as parking by vehicles. Nitin Gupta, president, Kamla Nagar Traders’ Association, said the deputy commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation visited the area to take stock of the parking project some time ago, but nothing more has happened. “Since illegal hawkers in the market are among the main reasons for the chaos, the municipal corporation planned to relocate them. But no such step has been taken,” Gupta added. As for Krishna Nagar, an EDMC official declared that enforcement was not feasible when the city was reeling under the Covid pandemic. “The Krishna Nagar no-vehicle zone was discontinued in view of the economic losses suffered by the traders in the area,” the official said. A senior official working on the parking policy maintained that citywide implementation of the policy from next year is the new target. “Passes will be issued for colony parking and there can be curbs on purchase of additional vehicles without proof of parking space availability,” the senior official said. Other civic officials said enforcement could begin after January in category A, B, C, and D colonies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/parked-on-paper-bad-air-fight-only-an-idea/articleshow/79598584.cms||Paras Singh
December 7, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav dares Nitish government to arrest him||PATNA: Agitated over the registration of a criminal case against him and 18 other opposition leaders for holding a dharna, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday dared the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state. Taking to Twitter, Tejashwi said he was even ready to be hanged for the cause of farmers. “The government of Bihar, which is being run under a ‘darpok’ (timid) chief minister, has registered an FIR against me for raising the voice in support of the farmers. If you have courage, arrest me. If you will not arrest me, I will wait for some time and then surrender myself. I am even ready to accept gallows for the cause of farmers,” Tejashwi tweeted. Tejashwi’s tweet came a day after Patna district administration registered an FIR against him and 18 other prominent leaders of the opposition parties for holding a dharna at one of the entrance gates of the Gandhi Maidan without necessary permission from the administration amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The FIR was registered against them under different sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Epidemic Diseases Act.An official of the district administration had on Saturday said that dharna inside Gandhi Maidan is not allowed as it is a “prohibited zone'”. “If anyone has to stage a dharna, they can do so at Gardanibagh,” the official said, adding the FIR against Tejashwi and others were registered as they violated the administration’s order and Covid-19 protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-dares-govt-to-arrest-him/articleshow/79596185.cms||Madan Kumar
December 7, 2020||Patna||RJD-led opposition to support Bharat bandh tomorrow||PATNA: The RJD, Congress and the five Left parties on Sunday decided to support and actively participate in Bharat bandh called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (AIKSS) on December 8. The one-day bandh has been called by AIKSS to press for withdrawal of three farm laws, guaranteed purchase of the farm produce of the farmers at the minimum support price (MSP) rates and also withdrawal of the proposed electricity Bill by the Centre. As per the decision, the bandh supporters will also prevent vehicular traffic on all the national highways, state highways, major district roads and rural roads on December 8. In Patna, a joint march under the banner of the AIKSS would be taken up from Buddha Smriti Park at 11am. The member organisations of the AIKSS in the state, at their meeting presided by its national general secretary and incharge of the agitations in Bihar Rajaram Singh (former MLA), discussed the nitty-gritty of the preparations for the bandh. Swaraj India representative Rishi Anand also participated in it. They condemned the lodging of police case against the RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Shyam Rajak and Alok Mehta, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha, as well as CPI and CPM senior functionaries, besides hundreds of others for sitting on dharna at Gandhi Maidan near the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday. The case was lodged at the Gandhi Maidan police station under the Epidemic Diseases Act for alleged violation of Covid protocols. “Tejashwi and RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh, in consultation with the party’s central leadership, on Sunday decided to actively participate in the Bharat bandh,” RJD state spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said. RJD national general secretary Bhola Yadav has intimated the heads of the party’s units in other states of the decision taken and also asked them to both support and actively participate in the bandh. Party’s state secretary general Alok Mehta has also asked the party units at district and block levels to support the bandh. Congress state president Jha convened the executive committee meeting where he announced the party’s support and its active participation in the bandh. “Movement of traffic on all kinds of roads, including the village link roads, will be blocked,” state Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathore said, adding all the frontal organisations of the party have been activated for the bandh. Meanwhile, the leaders of five-party Left combine – CPI(ML) state secretary Kunal, CPI secretary Ram Naresh Pandey, CPM secretary Awadhesh Kumar, Forward Bloc head Amrika Mahto and Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) secretary Birendra Kumar – have already announced their support to the bandh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-led-oppn-to-support-bharat-bandh-tomorrow/articleshow/79596158.cms||Abhay Singh
December 7, 2020||Patna||Patna, Delhi zoos still in talks for animal exchange||PATNA: The proposed animal exchange plan of Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, with Delhi zoo has run into trouble with the city zoo officials raising objections to changes made in the deal. Under the animal exchange programme of Central Zoo Authority (CZA), Patna zoo had agreed to give one male rhino ‘Ayodhya’ to Delhi zoo in lieu of a female rhino in 2018. However, this approved exchange could not be implemented by the two zoos. The said proposal was once again revived. However, the CZA unilaterally changed the earlier approved proposal without assigning any reason to Patna zoo. In the letter dated September 29, the CZA removed the transfer of one female rhinoceros from Delhi zoo and now giving six Manipur deer (4 female and two male) in exchange to Patna zoo. According to Patna zoo officials, the change in animal exchange deal would hamper the cross-breeding cycle of rhino, which would further impact the rhino population in captive in the long run. The zoo presently has 13 rhinos, including six female and seven male. Patna zoo has the second highest number of rhino population in the world after San Diego zoo, USA and highest in the country. Patna zoo director Amit Kumar said a proposal for exchange of animal came from Delhi zoo. “We agreed to the proposal for exchange of rhino in lieu of another rhino from Delhi zoo. However, changes have been made in the proposal. The paperwork is going on,” he said. D N Singh, former member secretary of CZA, has raised objection to the changes made in the animal exchange programme and described it as “unethical”. “The whole concept of rhino breeding centre at Patna zoo would collapse. ‘Ayodhya’ is the only rhino in city zoo which is eligible to mate with five female rhinos. While the other male rhino, ‘Ganesh’, can breed with only one female, ‘Lali’, the remaining female rhinos are from the same bloodline,” he said. Singh said he is emotionally attached with the breeding centre because he was the one who approved the project, designed the structure and sanctioned funds for the same in the capacity of CZA member secretary in 2016. “Patna zoo is the only zoo in the country having excellent records in the breeding of rhino in captivity over the years. In the recent times, no other zoo in the country is able to breed the rhino in captivity. Keeping in view this factor, the CZA approved setting up of breeding centre in Patna at a cost of Rs 5.5 lakh. The future of this investment would be at risk if the breeding of the rhino is affected due to any immature decision. We need to learn lesson from the past mistakes,” Singh said. The city zoo was once the pioneer in the captive breeding of the leopard cat. However, breaking of the breeding pairs due to careless transfer of the animals, unfortunate deaths, it now does not have a single leopard cat. Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary of state’s environment, forest and climate change department said the final decision has not been taken yet. “The decision of animal exchange will be taken keeping in view the long-term interest of the zoo,” he told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-delhi-zoos-still-in-talks-for-animal-exchange/articleshow/79596948.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 7, 2020||Business||Variable portion of CEOs’ pay may go up||MUMBAI: CEOs at India Inc are expected to see muted salary hikes in the current financial year, which has been an extraordinary and challenging one with the pandemic constricting cashflows of companies. A CEO’s compensation usually comprises three elements — fixed cash, and short-term incentives linked to performance during the year as well as to a longer term that is spread over 3-5 years, which could be in the form of ESOPs. Most companies look at all these components together for a CEO’s appraisal. A large part of the CEO’s salary depends on the financial performance of the organisation. Foreseeing a grim scenario, some CEOs had already taken salary cuts after the pandemic broke out. On an average, for the rest of the CEOs, executive search firms believe there would be no hikes. If at all, companies could increase the variable component of the salary, they added. Amit Agarwal, managing partner at executive search firm Stanton Chase, said CEO compensation is not expected to go northwards, at least on the fixed salary side. “The annual financial numbers of companies are expected to be bad. Right now is not the time to dish out excessive salary hikes to CEOs. Every one is fairly aware of that, and it doesn’t matter which industry.” Suresh Raina, managing partner at leadership advisory firm Hunt Partners India, said, “Most of the CEOs, barring some in FMCG and pharma sectors, will not hit the budgetary targets and hence may not be eligible for their short-term performance incentive for this year. It is not a small component — it falls in the 20-50% range of the overall salary, based on individual contracts. This component can be significantly impacted and, in extreme cases, written off entirely this year.” Given the pandemic, most companies’ boards are focusing on addressing immediate problems such as cash conservation. Business plans have taken a hit, putting pressure on corporates to reduce costs. “People have lost jobs, increments have been frozen. It becomes difficult to justify giving a bonus to the CEO/CXO team,” said Raina. He added that discussions around variable/performance pay for the CEOs have already started at some firms. “Negotiations are getting heated as CEOs look to salvage some parts of their salary components, while boards are looking to manage cost. Long-term performance compensation is still manageable as it could get deferred by another year. However, if the business has been badly hit, there are chances that recovery could take longer. In that case, there may be a question about the long-term incentive too. This is causing stress and heartburn on both sides,” said Raina. This year, companies are expected to be more aggressive in increasing the variable component of CEOs. At leadership levels, the variable pay is high, at times 40-50% of the salary. “There will also be scaling down of the compensation where companies are struggling to maintain their bottom line,” said Executive Access India MD Ronesh Puri. Stanton Chase managing partner Mala Chawla said compensation restructuring to increase the variable component will now be an important aspect of a board’s thought process. “For long, CEO salaries have been crossing the threshold. A number of CEOs are not even thinking of a hike this year,” said Chawla. Not only that. Puri said even perks of CEOs are being looked at harshly. “Firms would offer fully paid vacations to CEOs and their families and club memberships among other perks. These could be scaled down,” he said. However, there’s a change in the post-Covid mindset. “People have realised that money is not everything. Most CEOs are taking it with their chin up and not cribbing too much about salary cuts. They are being realistic and mature and willing to accept tweaking of their perks as they would like their example to be replicated by their subordinates,” said Puri. Most CEOs know when times get better, companies will look at these sacrifices and compensate them for the hard-work. It may, however, take a couple of years more, said these experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/variable-portion-of-ceos-pay-may-go-up/articleshow/79597425.cms||Namrata Singh
December 7, 2020||India||BJP: As agriculture minister, Pawar sought more private sector role in farming||NEW DELHI: With NCP chief Sharad Pawar supporting the farmers’ protest, BJP on Sunday circulated letters of the veteran leader, who as agriculture minister in 2010-2011 had written to chief ministers to amend the APMC Act in their states to encourage private participation in agriculture. BJP circulated two letters written by Pawar to then CMs Sheila Dikshit (Delhi) and Shivraj Singh Chouhan (MP) and argued that opposition parties had become “hypocritical”. TOI is in possession of the two letters. “You will undoubtedly agree that the agriculture sector needs well functioning markets to drive inclusive growth, employment and economic prosperity in rural areas of the country. This requires investment ins post-harvest and marketing infrastructure including cold-chain logistics from farm gate to consumer. The private sector needs to play an important role in this regard,” Pawar, as agriculture minister, wrote to Chouhan in November 2011. Pawar was more emphatic in support of the private sector in agriculture and reforming the APMCs. “In this context, there is a need to amend the APMC Act on the lines of the Centre’s Model APMC Act 2003, in order to encourage private sector investment in marketing, infrastructure and providing alternate competing marketing channels in the overall interest of farmers, consumers and trade.” Pawar had written.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-as-agriculture-minister-pawar-sought-more-private-sector-role-in-farming/articleshow/79599376.cms||Akhilesh Singh
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt announces increase in home guard strength by over 50%, to be given 25% reservation in prison guard recruitment||Dehradun: On the occasion of 58th Annual Raising Day of the Home Guard/Civil Defence Organis ation, which is celebrated every year on December 6, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced that the government is going to increase the strength of homeguards in the state from existing 6,411 to 10,001 personnel, a rise of over 55%. The CM also announced that home guard personnel will get 25% reservation in the posts of prison guards in the jail department, while 25% posts of Group C within the home guard department will be reserved for home guard personnel. Pushpak Jyoti, Commandant General of Home Guard department, said that a decision to open a Civil Defence Unit in Haridwar has also been taken. A raising day parade was also organised at the Home Guard headquarters in Dehradun on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-announces-increase-in-home-guard-strength-by-over-50-to-be-given-25-reservation-in-prison-guard-recruitment/articleshow/79596226.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man robbed of cow, calf by gunslinger in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A complaint has been lodged by Mangaji Thakor of Vanasan village in Patan district against two men who forcibly took away his cow and its calf from a truck. One of accused, identified as Jorubha, had a revolver clasped to his belt. The other accused has been named as Vipul Vyas in the FIR. The Ramol police station on Saturday filed a complaint of extortion against the duo. Thakor said he had hired a truck of Raju Rabari to transport eight cows, one buffalo, and nine calves from Luvana village to Surat. “According to the complaint, Rabari had obtained papers from the authorities to ferry the livestock,” said a police official. “When Rabari and the truck’s cleaner stopped near Ramol at a tea stall, Jorubha approached them and checked the truck. The driver showed the papers.” But soon, Vyas stepped into the scene and the two accused snatched away the cow and the calf,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-robbed-of-cow-calf-by-gunslinger/articleshow/79598566.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fever isn’t always Covid, can mean other illnesses, says doctors||PUNE: Not every fever is Covid-19. Doctors in the city said they have been seen a sizeable number of patients with various other viral and bacterial infections, including chikungunya, dengue, rickettsia, leptospirosis, and typhoid. "It is important to not get hung up on Covid," said infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag, with the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital. "For example, a patient muscle aches, headache and fever could be a chikungunya or dengue case, and not Covid. It is important to seek care in time and not panic." Specialists also said most citizens tend to "over-read" pathological tests and assume it's the pandemic virus. "A lot of times, fever with raised inflammatory markers, is assumed to be Covid. We have to keep in mind these are markers of inflammation and are not specific to Covid-19," Prayag said. For example, the D-dimer blood test presents elevated values as a response to inflammatory conditions seen in various other viral illnesses too, in addition to Covid-19. "Similarly, blood-thickening or hyper-coagulable conditions (increased tendency toward blood clotting), in terms of elevated ferritin levels often seen in hospitalized Covid patients and another inflammatory marker called C-reactive protein (CRP), can be high in virtually any other viral infection, including Covid," Prayag said. In short, an over-reliance on these blood tests could needlessly trigger panic. "This is simply because these blood tests do not tell us whether Covid is present or not. These blood tests, or markers, should be interpreted only by experts and considered as parts of the larger clinical picture. They should not be considered in isolation," Prayag said. Doctors added that even those who have recovered from Covid tend to panic after they develop flu-like symptoms again. Some of them may go on to test positive again, but there is a catch. "A repeat positive test does not always mean Covid. It can mean the virus has persisted in the body," Prayag said. Persistence of Covid infection is observed when low levels of virus particles remain in the body till at some point, there is clinical relapse. "Usually, virus persistence is seen in immune-privileged sites. We do not have a full understanding yet of where in the body the SARS-CoV-2 can persist," Prayag said. The specialist explained, "We have had patients coming in with two positive Covid tests one month apart - with fever and myalgia (body ache). It is important to thoroughly analyse their reports." Is treatment with over-the-counter drugs advisable for a few days for flu-like illness? "It is always advisable to reach out to a physician," Prayag said. Also, patients with residual lung damage from a recent Covid episode are likely to be more vulnerable to other lung infections. "So it is important that we take precautions during the winter. Use of masks, physical distancing, hand washing and staying away from crowds are key steps," Prayag said. Columbia Asia hospital's physician Vichar Nigam, said, "Currently, among illnesses, Covid comprises 30-40% of cases, followed by chikungunya and dengue (20%) and seasonal flu illness and typhoid (40%)."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/not-every-fever-is-covid-other-pathogens-on-the-prowl-experts/articleshow/79597176.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad police force report zero Covid cases||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police force has not reported a Covid-19 case among its personnel since Friday (December 4). All those who had contracted the illness have now been discharged from care, officials said. “Since Friday, after the discharge of one policeman, we haven't had a fresh case," an officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad force said. So far, Pimpri Chinchwad police have had 525 confirmed cases, with three deaths. Pune police still have 19 cops undergoing treatment. The officer from Pimpri Chinchwad police said the number of Covid cases among personnel was zero until Diwali. "Eight cops tested positive during the festival. Most of them were asymptomatic," the officer said. Assistant commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad, R R Patil, said, “Our seniors were constantly monitoring the health of those who were hospitalised. We arranged for medicines and blood plasma." Patil said the force has also formed a WhatsApp group to assist personnel. Cops who tested positive were added to the group. “We provided all sorts of help to our affected personnel and their family members,” Patil said. Of the 19 active cases in the Pune police force, officials said nine have been hospitalised; the rest are isolating at home. The force has lost nine cops to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimpri-chinchwad-police-force-report-zero-cases/articleshow/79597188.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kochi||Concerns raised over tusker’s health||IDUKKI: The forest department is closely monitoring the health condition of Guruvayur tusker Valiyakesavan following messages on social media that the tusker was suffering from serious health issues. According to officials, forest minister K Raju has inquired about the tusker’s health with the devaswom officials. “The tusker is not facing any serious health issues. It is undergoing treatment after a surgery and the condition of the elephant is improving,” said Guruvayur devaswom chairman K B Mohandas. He added that some groups were spreading fake messages against devaswom with political motivation. The devaswom expert committee on Thursday had conducted a detailed examination of the tusker and the team revealed that the health condition of Valiyakesavan is satisfactory. Devaswom veterinary officer P Venugopalan was directed to inspect the tusker and submit a report daily, added Mohandas. “Currently, the tusker is regaining health and is undergoing treatment,” said Thrissur assistant forest conservator P M Prabhu. “An elephant data bank prepared recently has found that 16 elephants, including Valiyakesavan, needed special care. Then, we formed a special committee under district chief veterinary officer Usha Rani. The team inspected these elephants and submitted a report. A directive was given to the owners to provide special care and treatment,” he added. Meanwhile, Kerala state animal welfare board member M N Jayachandran said that the health of Valiyakesavan was not favourable. “Earlier, it was found that the tusker was afflicted with tuberculosis. The government should form a committee including forest, veterinary and animal welfare board members out of Thrissur district to look into the issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/concerns-raised-over-tuskers-health/articleshow/79596220.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 2 engineering students killed in bike crash, cops find 1 kg ganja in their backpack||HYDERABAD: Two engineering students, who died when their bike crashed into a road divider at Suraram on Saturday night, were found to be carrying a kilo of ganja in a backpack. Around 11.05pm on Saturday, a patrolling team of Dundigal police comprising head constable D Shivaram Prasad and constable Ramesh received an alert from police control room about a road accident at Katta Maisamma temple in Suraram. “We went to the spot and found a Yamaha bike (TR09 EG 2104) had crashed into the median. Two men on the bike were lying on the other side of the median and they had died on the spot with multiple injuries,” head constable Prasad said. While trying to look for their identity cards, the cops found a red backpack. “In the bag belonging to the victims 1kg ganja was found,” the head constable mentioned in the complaint. Police later identified the victims as Anantha Vishal, 21, from Domaledigi village of Kodigiri mandal in Nizamabad district, and Sujit, 23, of Mancherial. Dundigal inspector A Venkatesham said the victims were B Tech final year students of St Peter’s Engineering College in Maisammaguda, Medchal, and they were staying at Mahalakshmi Boys Hostel at Maisammaguda. Vishal’s father Vittal Patel is an MPTC member. “The accident occurred while they were returning to the hostel. We are trying to verify from whom the youngsters obtained ganja and for what purpose. The bike belongs to Sujit. They did not wear helmets. The blood samples of the victims have also been collected to verify if they were under the influence of any chemical substance at the time of the accident,” the inspector said. Police have registered a case under Sections 304-A of the IPC and the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-engg-students-killed-in-bike-crash-cops-find-1kg-ganja-in-their-backpack/articleshow/79599135.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Patna||Kahalgaon youth killed over land dispute||BHAGALPUR: One Dipak Yadav (18), son of a farmer Prabhunath Yadav and resident of Lakrakol village under the Pirpainty police station area in Kahalgaon sub-division, was killed by a group of armed people of the same village on Sunday morning. The deceased was returning home from his village field along with his father when he was attacked by a group of armed miscreants. Kahalgaon SDPO Reshu Krishna confirmed the killing. She said, “An FIR has been lodged on the basis of the statement of the deceased’s father. We are investigating the case and will arrest the named accused soon. Prima facie it appears that the incident occurred following a dispute over a plot of land. Prabhunath in his statement before the police said that Bhim Yadav and his family were forcibly trying to capture his land in the village. After they opposed their move, Bhim and his relatives confronted his son while they were returning home and killed him. “Bhim killed Dipak with his rifle and Bhim’s nephew Sonu Yadav, Yogi Yadav, Ramji Yadav, Manish Yadav and Bijay Yadav were also involved in the killing,” Prabhunath said in his statement to the police. The SDPO said that on getting information, she along with Pirpainty PS SHO Rakesh Kumar and police team had rushed to the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kahalgaon-youth-killed-over-land-dispute/articleshow/79596233.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune airport to get upgrade to store & transport vaccine||PUNE: The Pune airport authorities said the existing the cargo hold was adequate for safe storage and transportation of Covid-19 vaccines that are currently under development. “We have a functional cargo terminal at the airport and cargo is regularly flown from Pune to other cities. This facility can be used for vaccines,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI on Sunday. The facility has the capacity to handle 1.5 tonnes of cargo per day. A long-gestating plan to move the facility to a larger 2.5 acre plot — currently in the possession of the Indian Air Force — would increase its daily capacity to 500 tonnes. In October, the authorities conceded that existing cargo facility was hobbled by space and infrastructural constraints, causing daily losses to the tune of Rs2.5 crore. Pune MP Girish Bapat, who chairs the Pune airport advisory committee, said there was now a need to quickly shift the cargo hub and that he would travel to Delhi this week to meet defence ministry officials and get approval. “Ten days ago, there was a meeting in Delhi between Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the defence secretary. I will go to Delhi this week to follow up on that and get clearance to shift the facility. A temporary set-up can come up on the new plot once we get the approval,” Bapat said. Moreover, officials in the know said discussions were on with all the stakeholders, including Serum Institute of India, and that an upgrade to the existing facility’s infrastructure too was on the cards. “It all depends on the state and central governments to decide the process of distribution and transportation of the vaccine. We will be following the instructions. If there is a need, we will look into enhancing the (existing) facility to pave way for smooth storage and transportation of the vaccine,” an airport official said. Serum Institute of India has entered into a partnership with AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford for the development of Covishield vaccine. Late last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited SII to take stock of the development process and to understand the process of the production and distribution of the vaccine. Airports in Delhi and Hyderabad are preparing infrastructure for speedy transportation and distribution of the vaccines, airport officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-airport-cargo-hub-to-get-upgrade-for-vaccine-storage-transport/articleshow/79597227.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 7, 2020||Meerut||17-yr-old abducted, gang-raped in Bulandshahr, main suspect arrested||MEERUT: A17-year-old girl in UP's Bulandshahr district was allegedly abducted, gang-raped and later, abandoned at a desolate spot by four youth on December 3. An FIR under relevant sections was registered at Chhatari police station on Sunday after her family lodged a complaint. The prime suspect has been arrested and other three suspects detained for questioning, police said. The rape survivor claimed that the accused filmed the act and threatened her with dire consequences if she informed her family or police. However, she narrated her ordeal to her mother after she complained of severe abdomen pain and her family got suspicious. An FIR under relevant IPC sections of abduction, gang-rape and criminal intimidation and provisions of the IT Act and Pocso Act was registered at Chhatari police station in the district. Though, police have arrested main suspect, Akram, and detained the remaining perpetrators for interrogation, senior police officers said the call detail record (CDR) of the girl’s phone does not match the claims of abduction. "The CDR analysis establishes that the rape survivor and the accused were in touch and were talking during the time the incident is claimed to have taken place. The minor girl had gone with the accused on her own accord and was not abducted as claimed. All the accused are in police custody and investigation is underway," said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/17-yr-old-abducted-gang-raped-in-bulandshahr-main-suspect-arrested/articleshow/79596245.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Greek slaves and flute girls in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: India’s western region had always fascinated travellers, traders and explorers alike. But to gain access to this bustling trade centre, a number of Greek travelogue sources has revealed how western traders were instructed to give “gifts” of beautiful concubines and slave musicians to Indian rulers in Gujarat, to get access to these markets. Bharuch was one of the few ports, where slaves were brought in. A new book ‘The Prestige Makers: Greek Slave Women in Ancient India’ by Kathryn Hain brought out by Journal of World History, quotes the Greek mariner’s guide to western Indian ocean, ‘Periplus Maris Erythraei’, written in a period dating back between 60 AD to 80 AD, where traders were advised that in order to gain permission to trade in Barygaza in Gujarat, “For the king, there was imported in those times precious silverware, slave musicians, beautiful girls for concubinage, fine wines, etc.” The “prosperous city” the Greek text book mentions was located on the Narmada River and was the “meeting point of foreign traders and Indian products that came down-river from Ujjain. A vital text of administrative documents from Gujarat, Lekhapaddhati, from 1230 CE , was translated by Prof Pushpa Prasad’s in her book , “Female Slavery in Thirteenth-Century Gujarat: Documents in the Lekhapaddhati,” which claims that not just customers, but also owners could use violence to coerce their slave girls. It was legal to “punish her by kicking and catching her by the hair and tying up and beating her.” If a prostitute refused a customer after a service agreement was made, she could be fined eight times her fee unless the king was involved, then the punishment increased to 1,000 lashes. Prasad retired as a professor from Aligarh Muslim University. Another early text called Rajatarangini, (“River of Kings”) chronicling early India in 1148 AD was quoted by historian Anant Altekar in his research ‘The Position of Women’, mentioning the presence of dancing girls around the temple town of Somanatha. Many Indian sources mention Yavani (Greek) sex workers, courtesans, or flute girls. But then these women carved a role for themselves in Indian culture. This evidence of presence of Greeks in the western region is corroborated in the Junagadh inscription of Rudradaman around 150 AD which mentions the Greek presence in the area of Aparanta, the coastal trading region encompassing north-western India from Gujarat to Sindh. Another inscription on the Heliodoros pillar at Besnagar, which provides evidence that Greeks were also adherents of the Bhagavata cult of Krishna worship in the second century BCE, according to another book by Richard Salomon, called ‘Indian Epigraphy; A guide to the Study of Inscriptions in Sanskrit, Prakrit, and the Other Indo-Aryan Languages.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/greek-slaves-and-flute-girls-in-gujarat/articleshow/79597283.cms||Paul John
December 7, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: 685 new patients push active caseload to 11,000 in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: Nearly 700 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the Pune Metropolitan Region in a 24-hour window till 8pm on Sunday. This nudged the progressive case count (overall case tally so far) to nearly 3.48 lakh. Pune Municipal Corporation limits, with 309, reported the highest number of cases in the region, while Pimpri Chinchwad had 123 new patients. The rural areas, cantonment limits and municipal councils together reported 253 cases on Sunday. During the same 24-hour period, 664 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries in the region to over 3.28 lakh. Pune city accounted for 444 of these recoveries and Pimpri Chinchwad had 64 discharges. The rest of the district saw 156 people being discharged. Meanwhile, 14 people succumbed to the contagion on Sunday — seven in PMC limits, four in Pimpri Chinchwad and three people in the rest of the district. The number of active cases stood at 11,002 on Sunday — 4,251 patients were being treated in hospitals and 6,751 were under home quarantine. As per the data available with PMC, areas under its jurisdiction had 1,155 patients being treated on beds with oxygen support. A daily report issued by the civic body also stated that 429 people were in a critical condition, of whom 254 people were on ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/685-new-patients-push-active-caseload-to-11k/articleshow/79597260.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
December 7, 2020||Varanasi||UP: 17-year-old girl found murdered brutally, locals stage protest||VARANASI: A 17-year-old girl was found brutally murdered in the fields of Khajepur Mathia village under the limits of Bahariabad police station in Ghazipur district on Sunday morning. Angered over the killing, locals blocked Chiraiyyakot_Saidpur road and staged a massive demonstration with the girl’s body. SP Ghazipur OP Singh said that the stir was called off after the villagers were assured that the killers would be arrested soon. In his complaint, the girl’s father said that on Sunday morning the girl went to toilet, which is used by women of his family, about 50mt away from his house. When she did not return, her mother went to search for him and found her body in a paddy field about 200 mt away from their home. After she raised an alarm, several villagers gathered there and the girl was immediately rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared her dead. Angered villagers reached Bahariabad police station with the body and later staged demonstration for over three hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/17-yr-old-girl-found-murdered-brutally-locals-stage-protest/articleshow/79598580.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Growing your own food in lockdown||Ahmedabad: Even though the consumerism-driven #Foodgasm attached to food-related posts was a high point for instagrammers across the city, for many others, growing their own food was the way forward, for therapeutic reasons and as their first step towards sustainable living too. As the eating healthy bug bit people during the lockdown, cultivating microgreens caught the fancy of many, who were once intrigued with the idea of kitchen gardening. Be it for its culinary aesthetic value or nutrition, lockdown did come as an opportunity in disguise for Amdavadis to harvest a bounty of microgreens, that were a step ahead of merely garnishing their pasta platters.For instance, Nishi Dave, an entrepreneur, who lives in an apartment began kitchen-gardening more passionately since the lockdown. “I had read a lot about microgreens and their nutritional value and always wanted to try them. During the lockdown I experimented with certain vegetables and yielded a good harvest. For instance, radish isn’t available before winters but I was thrilled to be able to cultivate through micro-greens at home,” said Dave, who grows parsley, coriander, lemon grass, spinach and chillies in pots of various sizes in her apartment balcony.At a time when urban farming is a fast-catching trend, many feel there is a growing need for community- and kitchen-gardens. Those with a vision took lockdown as an opportunity to pursue it. A case in point is of Ahmedabad-based architect and interior designer, Saloni Gajjar, who has been kitchen gardening for a long time; microgreens caught her last year, so much so that she also took up a course in Permaculture design which focusses on sustainable agriculture methods.“I wanted to pursue this at a scale, collaborating with farmers but thanks to the lockdown, the project got halted. That is when I decided to experiment based on my learnings in my own kitchen garden,” said Saloni, who cultivated cherry tomatoes, spinach, okra, fenugreek, among others at home.“I tried growing what is used and consumed in the house and began relying on in-house harvest as much as possible. I didn’t necessarily need to go buy seeds from outside and rather I could utilize the vegetables I have at home to separate the seeds, sow and let them germinate,” said she further added.Composting at homeAhmedabad-based advertising entrepreneur, Aditi Shukla, who has been growing greens in her balcony garden, began making bio-enzymes and composting at home. “I segregate wet and dry waste at home and the kitchen waste usually works well for creating the compost which I use for the plantations at home,” she said.“Kitchen gardening is not just therapeutic, but it makes you conscious about the labour that goes into producing your food and respecting those who cultivate yours,” said Aditi, who has been using all the balconies of her home to cultivate greens and microgreens.Microgreens – a triviaMicrogreens are basically plants that are harvested within a week or two, when the seeds germinate into a stem and leaves up to a couple of inches. They don’t require bigger land plots or even a pot and can be cultivated in smaller containers such as trays, boxes, using soil and other potting/ growing material.According to the United States Department of Agriculture, it was back in the 1980s in San Francisco, when microgreens first appeared on restaurant menus mainly used for garnishing in salads, soups and food platters. Today, it is widely used as a garnish and as a key component in salads amid various eating healthy trends while culinary experts have been using them for adding various textures and flavours to the food.Vineet Kumar Mishra, director – F&B, Novotel Ahmedabad, said, “The modern consumer is well-travelled and better informed about various cuisines from across the world. While seeking nutritional value besides the taste, people are becoming increasingly open to try world cuisine and therefore, people growing microgreens in kitchen gardens is not surprising. We have been cultivating a number of varieties at the hotel and they’re very much part of our buffet menus.” Garden lovers too see it trend Over three years, a WhatsApp Group, Ahmedabad Garden Lovers has been operating where gardening enthusiasts and experts exchange their ideas, endeavours while guide one another over gardening. Lima Rosalind, one of the founder members of the three-year-old group and a wildlife biologist, said, “Microgreens did catch fancy of many during the lockdown and there was a gradual transformation from people wanting to grow beautiful looking flowers and exotic plants to growing vegetables and microgreens.”The group has conducted several workshops on cultivating as well as consuming microgreens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/growing-your-own-food-in-lockdown/articleshow/79598672.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 7, 2020||Business||Petrol, diesel prices poised to breach all-time high||NEW DELHI: Auto fuel prices are on upswing in the country with the pump price of petrol set to breach all-time high levels next week. The oil marketing companies (OMCs) on Sunday increased the retail price of petrol by 28 paise per litre to Rs 83.4 a litre in Delhi. Similarly, diesel price also increased by 29 paise a litre to Rs 73.6 a litre. With this, the current price of petrol in Delhi is just about 60 paise short of breaching the all-time high level of fuel of Rs 84 a litre reached on October 4, 2018. Across the country too, the retail price of petrol is very close to all-time high levels and will breach the mark this week if retail prices continue to rise everyday. In Mumbai, the all-time high petrol price was Rs 91.3 a litre recorded on October 4, 2018. Its retail price now is Rs 90. The all-time high petrol prices in Chennai and Kolkata have been Rs 87.3 and Rs 85.8 a litre and the current prices are Rs 86.2 and Rs 84.9 a litre respectively. Ironically, the consistent increase in retail prices of auto fuels — petrol and diesel — over the past fortnight taking it closer to all-time high levels comes at a time when the crude prices are almost $30 a barrel less than what was in October 2018, when petrol prices reached all time high levels last. Global crude prices have firmed up recently. It has risen almost $10 a barrel in the last one month to reach closer to $50 a barrel now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/petrol-diesel-prices-poised-to-breach-all-time-high/articleshow/79599391.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||Man trampled to death by elephant||DEHRADUN: A man in his forties was trampled to death by an elephant in the Chillawali area of Rajaji Tiger Reserve. The incident took place on Saturday when the man had gone into the forest to collect fodder. Earlier on Wednesday (December 2), a daily wage worker was attacked and killed by another tusker in the Terai East region. According to the forest department data, around a dozen people have been trampled to death by elephants across the state so far this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/articleshow/79596272.cms||Shivani Azad
December 7, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Preference for select travel destinations hit over RT-PCR insistence on return||PUNE: Sudden regulation changes are throwing asunder travel plans and tourists are wary of travelling to certain destinations — such as Delhi, Goa and Rajasthan — for fear of stringent norms amid rising Covid cases in these locales. Travel agents in Pune have reported a sharp drop in the number of people taking long trips to tourist destinations including Delhi, Goa and Rajasthan. People who are at all travelling are opting for business trips, short stays or are changing the venue of previously planned destinations completely, they said. In addition to this, the trend of changing the venue of a business meeting or a get together to a city in a different state other than Maharashtra is also picking up, said sources in the travel industry. “After the market improved a bit after lockdown, the demand for travel increased. However, the recent order of the state government regarding travellers from Delhi, Gujarat, Goa and Rajasthan has had its effects. Till recently, we were getting around three to four bookings for holidays in Delhi and around 10-15 vacation bookings to places in Gujarat and Rajasthan. However, now the bookings have completely dried up,” said Santosh Gupta, owner of Shree Vinayak Holidays. He said people who wanted to travel to these destinations for a winter break have also postponed their trips or cut it short. “While going from Pune to Delhi, for example, is not a problem, travellers have to go through a test or have a negative RT-PCR report on return which is a hassle,” Gupta said. Nilesh Bhansali, the director of travels agents association of Pune (TAAP) and owner of Devam Tours and Travels, said the demand for shorter trips was high. “People want to travel but the sudden regulation changes are a problem. Now, people prefer short trips of 4-7 days because they fear getting stuck if new regulations are announced,” Bhansali told the TOI. The representative of another travel company told TOI that some people had called seeking a venue change. “There was a group which was to travel to Goa next month. Now they have sought to change it to Kerala and asked me to see if some adjustments can be made as they have already paid money for the flight tickets and hotel stay. They are ready to spend some additional money as well. The government must do something to alleviate the fear of sudden regulations,” he said. Shantanu Panse, who works in the merchant navy and is in a European country, said he cancelled his trip home to Pune because he was confused about institutional quarantine norms for foreign travellers. “I was to come to Pune via Delhi but have cancelled it now, since I would have been coming to India from a foreign country. I am not very confident about whether I might have to undergo an RT-PCR test twice — once before I undertake the trip and again after landing in Pune. I think it is better to not travel now,” Panse said. According to the latest guidelines for international travel in Maharashtra, a traveller doesn’t have to be undergo institutional quarantine if he has an RT-PCR negative report or he/she can be tested at the airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/passenger-preference-for-select-destinations-takes-a-hit-due-to-sudden-regulation-changes/articleshow/79597274.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 7, 2020||Meerut||Lung transplant only hope in some Covid patients: Study by Meerut-born doc||MEERUT: A research by Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, has found that Covid-19 in some patients can lead to irreversible and permanent lung damage, rendering them irrecoverable, and leaving lung transplantation as the only option for survival. Meerut-born Dr Ankit Bharat, chief of thoracic surgery and surgical director of the lung transplant program at the hospital in Chicago, had also conducted the first lung transplant on a Covid-19 patient in the US in June 2020. Dr. Bharat, who is also the principal investigator of the study published in peer-reviewed Science Translational Medicine journal of the Science Magazine, Dr Bharat said organ transplantation may become more frequent for victims of the most severe forms of Covid-19. “We provided explicit evidence that Covid-19 can cause permanent damage to lungs in some patients for whom lung transplantation is the only hope for survival,” Dr Bharat told TOI. “The lungs affected by Covid-19 also showed striking similarities to the lungs of patients with a condition called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis – which causes lung tissue to get thick and stiff, making it difficult for the body to take in oxygen. As in pulmonary fibrosis, we found that Covid-19 led to the recruitment of circulating immune cells called monocytes which are likely recruited to the lung to kill the virus. In a fibrotic lung, these cells also promote the formation of fibrotic scar tissue. These cells can be easily and safely sampled and might also help mark patients who are failing to recover from Covid-19,” explains Scott Budinger, MD, Ernest S. Bazley professor and chief of pulmonary and critical care medicine at Northwestern Medicine, and senior author of the study. “With about 5.5 million active Covid-19 infections currently in the US and thousands of new cases daily, the need for lung transplantation will grow,” said Dr Bharat. “By using information from our study, we hope more patients can receive lung transplants and that new treatments will be developed to prevent permanent lung damage from viruses,” he said. On May 26, surgeons in Austria had performed the world's first known lung transplant to save the life of a Covid-19 survivor, a 45-year-old woman stricken with a severe form of the disease. Since then, several Covid patients had to be operated on for lung transplant in many other countries, including India where a patient in Hyderabad also underwent the country’s first double lung transplant in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/lung-transplant-only-hope-in-some-covid-patients-study-by-meerut-born-doc/articleshow/79596251.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nine pairs of twins triumph in NEET||Ahmedabad: The medical colleges of Gujarat have seen not one or two but nine ‘judwaa jodis’ making entry for MBBS studies this year. For twin brothers Pinkesh Bapodariya and Prince Bapodariya, as well as for their parents, it was a dream come true. While Pinkesh has got admission in Surat Medical College after scoring 630 marks in NEET exams, his brother Prince has got admission at GMERS Medical College, Patan. For their proud father Jayesh Bapodariya, the going hasn’t been easy though. A diamond polisher in Surat, he had to sell family jewellery to pay for their coaching class fees to crack NEET exams. With a monthly income of about Rs 10,000 Bapodariya says he had to borrow from friends and relatives to pay the Rs 3 lakh fees for securing his son’s admission in the medical college at Patan. The twins completed their schooling from Jeevan Bharati Education School, Surat. “Prince wanted to become a software engineer. I told him to choose a career in medicine looking at his excellent academic performance in the past. The other son always wanted to be a doctor,” said the father of the twins. The number of twins getting entry in medical colleges together has risen in the last few years. About two years ago, there were barely a couple of such cases. Last year seven twins secured admission in medical colleges in Gujarat. Like these twin brothers, the twin sisters Krina Dobariya (NEET score: 631 marks) and Kenvi Dobariya (NEET score: 574 marks) have got admission in MBBS studies at Pandit Dindayal Upadhyay Medical College, Rajkot and GMERS Medical College, Gotri. Their father Sanjay Dobariya, a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctor could not be more proud. “I missed making it to MBBS course by a few marks. My twin daughters have fulfilled my dream,” he said. The two sisters, who went to Rajkot’s Premier School, constantly supported each other in their studies. “My sister is very clever and has a better grasping power than me. She can memorize rather quickly,” said Kenvi. Take the case of Janvi Mithapara and Janki Mithapara who hail from Gondal. While Janki (Neet score: 516 marks) bagged a medical seat at GMERS Medical College at Vadnagar, Janvi (NEET score: 563 marks) has got admission in M P Shah Government Medical College at Jamnagar. The sisters have not attended any coaching class or taken tuitions. Instead they relied on each other to solve problems for cracking NEET. Their father, Sailesh Mithapara is a diamond polisher who says he is determined to make his daughters complete their study and pursue post-graduation, even if it meant putting in extra hours of work for him. Sailesh Mithapara, who has four children in all, said he took a loan for paying his daughter fees for Vadnagar medical college. For Jayesh Khatra, a labour contractor from a humble background, his daughter Devanshi (NEET score: 523 marks) was always brighter than her twin brother Devansh (NEET score: 500 marks). But his joy knew no bounds he says when they both made it to medical colleges. Devanshi has got admission in GCS Medical College while Devansh has secured admission in K Shah Medical College and Research Centre, Ahmedabad. Their father says he is looking to get benefit from some government schemes to fund his twin children’s college education. Rahil Talati took admission at NHL Municipal Medical College despite scoring 641 marks which made him eligible to get entry into government-run medical colleges. But he chose NHL for this is where his twin brother Rushil (NEET score: 570 marks) had bagged a medical seat. Similar to the Talati twins, Divya Prajapati, with a NEET score of 536 marks and Disha Prajapati, with a score of 529 marks, have secured admission in the same college – GMERS Medical College, Himmatnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nine-pairs-of-twins-triumph-in-neet/articleshow/79597349.cms||Bharat Yagnik
December 7, 2020||Allahabad||Akshayvat, Patalpuri to open for pilgrims during Magh Mela||PRAYAGRAJ: The centuries-old mythological tree Akshayvat in Allahabad Fort will be opened for pilgrims during the upcoming Magh Mela from January 14. Inspector general of police (Prayagraj range) K P Singh told TOI, “Akshayvat will be opened for darshan between 6am and 5pm.” He, however, clarified that darshan won’t be allowed during main snan days, including Makar Sankranti, Mauni Amavasya, Paush Purnima, Maghi Purmina and Basant Panchami. On other days, devotees will be able to get a glimpse of the holy tree between 6am and 5pm. Singh said, “Adequate security bandobast will be made in view of heavy rush of devotees during the annual religious fair and duties of additional policemen equipped with latest safety gadgets will be assigned.” Akshayvat tree was opened for the first time for devotees during Kumbh 2019. With the fort under Army control and inaccessible to pilgrims, prayers are offered at the replica outside the fort. Apart from Akshayvat, devotees will also get access to Patalpuri and Saraswati Koop (well) after negotiating through a passage. A glass and steel wall is being erected to facilitate darshan of the holy tree. Currently, Akshayvat is open for darshan between 7am and 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/akshayvat-patalpuri-to-open-for-pilgrims-during-magh-mela/articleshow/79598609.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kochi||Kelsa takes up the case of prisoners in mental hospitals||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 94 prisoners, who have either completed their sentence or are under trial or have been convicted, are languishing in mental asylums in the state. Of these, 12 have spent more than 20 years in psychiatric hospitals. A recommendation by the Kerala state legal services authority (Kelsa) to rehabilitate them is under the consideration of the government. Of the 94, 27 have been acquitted by courts, while 62 are in remand awaiting trial, which they have been declared unfit for. As many as 12, including seven remand prisoners and five who have been acquitted, have already completed 20 years in asylums. There are eight acquitted prisoners and nine undertrials who have completed more than 10 years in such institutions. As per Section 19 (1) (b) of the Mental Healthcare act, 2017, “every person with mental illness shall not continue to remain in a mental health establishment merely because he does not have a family or is not accepted by his family or is homeless or is due to the absence of community based facilities.” In Charanjit Singh and National Vs State and Other Case, 2005, the Delhi high court had quashed the proceedings relating to an undertrial who had completed 20 years in a mental asylum. Kelsa undertook a detailed assessment of such prisoners. It recommended that persons who are undergoing mental treatment and have been acquitted should be rehabilitated with their families, or, in the absence of families, in the 33 psycho-social rehabilitation centres. In the case of remand prisoners, Kelsa said if the alleged offence is punishable with an imprisonment of not more than 10 years and they have already completed five years in a mental asylum, they should be rehabilitated to their families, and should be treated there. A medical board should examine them periodically, to ascertain if they are fit to stand trial. If they are unfit even after five years, the matter must be reported to court for appropriate action. Remand prisoners who have committed a crime that could earn them life imprisonment or death penalty should be rehabilitated to their homes or psycho-social rehabilitation centres if they have completed 10 years in mental asylums. They should also be periodically examined and if they remain unfit for trial for more than 10 years after rehabilitation, the matter should be taken up with court , Kelsa suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kelsa-takes-up-the-case-of-prisoners-in-mental-hospitals/articleshow/79596263.cms||KP Saikiran
December 7, 2020||Kanpur||BJP leader, wife killed in accident on Agra expressway||KANPUR: Sandeep Shukla (45), spokesperson of BJP’s Delhi unit, and his wife Anita (42) died while five others including their three minor children were injured after their car was hit by a truck on Agra-Lucknow Expressway near Thatia area in Kannauj district during early hours of Sunday. According to the reports, Sandeep along with his family and two cousins was on way to Chintamani Pandit Ka Pura village in Pratapgarh to attend a marriage ceremony of their relative when a truck hit the car. Sandeep lost control over the vehicle and it turned turtle after crashing into the divider. Inspector Thatia police station Raj Kumar said, “The incident occurred at around 4.30am on Sunday. Sandeep’s three sons -Siddarth (10), Abhinav (6) and Arav (3), and his two cousins sustained injuries and have been admitted to Tirwa Medical College.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-leader-wife-killed-in-accident-on-agra-e-way/articleshow/79598652.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 7, 2020||Kanpur||A spark lit success for Kanpur lad after his wooden Gita gift to Narendra Modi||KANPUR: The spark to start his own venture ignited by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in city lad Sandeep Soni four years ago, resulted in his launching his own showroom in Kanpur on Sunday. In 2016, when Soni got a chance to meet PM Narendra Modi and had presented him a unique ‘Bhagvad Gita’ he had carved on wood, the PM had appreciated his talent and skills and encouraged him to be a job creator instead of being a job seeker. Sandeep had taken over three years to carve the wooden Gita —a 32-page book weighing 40 kg, with each wooden ply page measuring 24 inches by 32 inches — and had worked day and night to prepare it. PM Modi had praised Soni and encouraged him to use his talent wisely and start his own venture and provide jobs to others rather than looking for a job himself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/a-spark-lit-success-for-kanpur-lad-after-his-wooden-gita-gift-to-modi/articleshow/79598624.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Industry minister helps rescue injured man, sends him to hospital||KANPUR: Industry minister Satish Mahana helped rescue an accident victim and rushed him to the hospital in his escort vehicle when he saw the injured man near Koyla Nagar highway in Chakeri while returning from a function on Sunday. Mahana was returning to his Lal Bangla residence after attending a function in Barra area of the city when he witnessed a road accident near Koyla Nagar highway in Chakeri. A man, identified as Pawan Kumar (28), a resident of Barra, had died on the spot while Prashant was critically injured. The minister alerted the local police station and rushed the injured person to Ursula Horseman hospital in his escort vehicle. Speaking to TOI, Koyla Nagar outpost in-charge Usman Ali said Prashant sustained serious injuries while his friend Pawan Kumar had died on the spot. “Pawan and Prashant, both residents of Barra village, were heading to Ramadevi area on a motorcycle when their vehicle was hit by a speeding heavy vehicle. Body of the deceased has been shifted to mortuary. Meanwhile, searches are under way to arrest the erring driver. An FIR was registered following a complaint by the victim’s family members. Investigations are on in this connection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/industry-min-helps-rescue-injured-man-sends-him-to-hosp/articleshow/79598686.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Allahabad||Deputy CM lays foundation of two-lane bridge on Tons river||PRAYAGRAJ: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya laid the foundation of a two-lane bridge on Tons river in Naribari area on Sunday. Measuring 718.88 metre, the bridge is estimated to cost Rs 63 crore and the UP State Bridge Corporation Limited is expected to complete the project in 24 months. Maurya said the bridge would help the residents of Bara and Koraon tehsil by easing traffic congestion. Once the bridge is constructed, development of the area would be carried out in double pace, he said. He said the BJP-led state government has “listened the voice of the people in trans-Ganga area and sanctioned the bridge”. Maurya said the government is committed to the overall development of the state and several ROB and over-bridges have been sanctioned in Prayagraj to rid people of traffic snarls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/deputy-cm-lays-foundation-of-two-lane-bridge-on-tons-river/articleshow/79598614.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Amritsar||Farmer's protest: December 8 bandh to be observed all day, road blockades till 3pm||BATHINDA: Farm organisations protesting against central farm laws on Sunday made it clear that the ‘Bharat Bandh’ (nationwide protest) on December 8 will be complete. No supplies of milk and vegetables will be allowed, and business or trade activity, will come to a standstill. However, chakka jams (road blockades) will be in force up to 3pm in the entire country. The path will be provided to ambulances, marriage parties or anyone in dire need during the chakka jam. The farm groups said support for the bandh call was pouring in from various trade organisations belonging to various states from across the country. A large number of farmers and journalists will be observing bandh and protest at Chandigarh, claimed the farmers on Sunday evening. Before the bandh, sportspersons, ex-servicemen, and art and literary personalities are expected to return medals and awards to the government on Monday. Before outlining the details of the call for Bharat Bandh by farm leaders, farm groups had a lengthy meeting on Singhu border where strategy for the bandh call and struggle was discussed. They reiterated that nothing less than repealing of agri laws is acceptable to them and till achieving this the struggle will continue. Farm leaders Baldev Singh Nihalgarh and Jagmohan Singh said a jatha of 250 peopel on motorcycles was coming from Gujarat to support the farm struggle, and trade organisations from Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, MP and other states had also announced to observe the bandh. Agriculture markets in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan will remain closed as arhtiyas (commission agents) have supported the bandh call. Transporters’ associations and political parties have also promised to observe the bandh, they said. AIKSCC member Yogendra Yadav said the Editors Guild of India had issued an advisory to reporters covering the farm struggle not to brand farmers as Khalistanis or anti-nationals. The guild has asked media to do fair reporting. Congress, Aam Aadmi Party and Shiromani Akali Dal have announced to support the bandh call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/tomorrows-bandh-to-be-observed-all-day-road-blockades-till-3pm/articleshow/79598592.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Snapped live cables in Chennai: A step away from death||CHENNAI: Every year, hundreds of people are electrocuted in the state, a number of them due to the snapping of overhead lines, especially during the monsoon. Despite calls to address this issue by public and the Madras high court, the authorities have made little progress. On Friday, five electrocution deaths were reported in and around the city, with snapped wires killing four. According to a Tangedco official, there is 2004km of HT (high tension) line and 33,307km of LT (low tension) overhead lines in Chennai region and the process to take the overhead cables underground has begun. On November 2, while hearing a petition from the parents of a student who got electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire in Virudhunagar district, Justice G R Swaminathan of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court directed Tangedco to undertake a comprehensive safety audit to prevent electrocution due to snapping of electric wires. “They (Tangedco) can announce cash prizes for young scientists to come up with ideas as to how the feeder can trip automatically, once line is snapped. I am told that in Japan, the electricity transmission lines are laid in insulated form beneath the ground. The lines do not carry load beyond what is required. It is only in India the lines carry unnecessary load that enables pilferage,” the bench said. But, Tangedco engineers said so far there has been no technology that trips automatically when LT wires snap. “In case of HT wires, there is a system where the feeder trips automatically, since they come from the sub-station. For LT cables that supply electricity to houses, it is about periodic inspection and alerts from the public,” said an assistant engineer from the Chennai North region. A senior Tangedco official said in some incidents are “act of god” citing the Virudhunagar incident. “A HT line had snapped and fallen on the bushes that had grown underneath. It did not touch the ground. The feeder had not tripped at the sub-station. Even the court had accepted our argument in the case,” the official said. But residents in several areas pointed out damaged poles and wires dangling from junction boxes. In Chitlapakkam town panchayat, residents sent a detailed complaint with photographs of 31 damaged electric poles last year after a resident died when he came in contact with a live wire. “In Chennai, based on experience from previous monsoons, we have decided to raise the height of the pillar boxes up to four feet to prevent waterlogging around the pillar box during heavy rain,” a senior Tangedco official said adding that they plan to replace 33,000 pillar boxes in the city. In a phased manner, all overhead cables will also be converted into underground cables in the city, the official said. It will cost the department an estimated amount of more than Rs 2,500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-step-away-from-death/articleshow/79597321.cms||Srikkanth D
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana petrol pumps to stay closed||KARNAL: Haryana Petroleum Dealer Welfare Association (HPDWA) has extended support to the farmers’ nationwide protest on Tuesday and decided to close all petrol stations in the state on December 8. The association has also formed a three-member committee to support farmers by opening fuel stations for farmers at Singhu and Tikri borders by filling free diesel in tractors of farmers marching to Delhi in protest for their demands. The decision was taken in a state-level meeting of HPDWA at Panipat on Sunday. Sanjeev Chaudhary, state president of HPDWA, said farmers had been protesting for more than a week on Delhi border. The association has decided to support farmers’ agitation and all pumps in Haryana will remain closed on December 8. He said the agitation had affected every sector and section of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-petrol-pumps-to-stay-closed/articleshow/79598595.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Additional PWD office in Mormugao to help address water woes||VASCO: Dabolim and Cortalim constituencies in Mormugao taluka will now have an additional public works department (PWD) office to help deal with water supply related issues better. Until now, all four assembly constituencies in the taluka - Mormugao, Vasco, Dabolim and Cortalim - had only one PWD office catering to them, operating from Baina. The additional office is expected to help get water supply related issues addressed quicker. “Wherever the PWD has felt the need to create more offices and divisions, it has done so,” said a PWD official. The reason for creating new offices is the increase in workload due to higher density of residential units following rise in constructions and new water connections. “Earlier the same team of officials had to attend to calls of the entire jurisdiction of the taluka. But now the services will improve with a new full-fledged office to specifically look after all the executions, attending to complaints and maintenance of pipelines,” said the official. Though the new office premises is yet to be created, the newly-appointed assistant engineer Vishwambher Bhende and his team have begun work as a separate office from the PWD’s Baina office itself. The work of identification of a new premises is on for the additional PWD office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/additional-pwd-office-in-mormugao-to-help-address-water-woes/articleshow/79711541.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||NFSU’s ballistic range sees more Indian MSME products||AHMEDABAD: In one place in the state capital Gandhinagar firearms have kept spitting out bullets since lockdown ended. It is the firing range at Ballistic Research & Training Centre (BRTC) at National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU). “Compared to testing of 60 products in August last year, this year we tested 180,” said S G Khandelwal, in-charge of the facility which is only one of its kind in India. “We performed about 50% less tests compared to 2019, but we are fast catching up.” Saurabh Kumar, scientific officer (ballistics), said compared to 2019, more MSME products have come for testing. Officials also pointed at the better equipment now produced in India. They said in different regions and terrains of India – from Jammu & Kashmir to the southern states, and others, the gears vary. “The producers also get inputs from the forces. For example, the shrapnel from IEDs should be taken into account in certain scenario,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nfsus-ballistic-range-sees-more-indian-msme-products/articleshow/79597384.cms||Parth Shastri
December 7, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar Ansari aide’s six-floor building razed in Gazipur||VARANASI: A six-floor building of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s close aide Ganesh Dutt Mishra at Shriram Colony of Rajdepur Dehati area in Gazipur was razed to the ground on Sunday morning amid tight security arrangements. During investigation, Ghazipur SDM had found the multi-storied building constructed by Mishra was illegal as it was constructed in violation of the master plan and ordered its demolition, however, Mishra took a stay on the demolition order. On Saturday, the matter was put up before the eight-member board headed by DM Mangla Prasad Singh, which vacated the stay order approved the SDM’s demolition order. SDM Sadar Aniruddh Pratap Singh and CO City Ojaswi Chawla reached Shriram Colony at around 6.30am on Sunday along with heavy police force, staff and four earthmover machines. The police restricted vehicular movement on the roads leading to the building while people in neighbouring houses were also asked to go to a safe place till the completion of demolition. The building was razed in three hours. Officials said the estimated cost of the building was Rs 3.31 crore. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “The demolition of this building of over Rs 3 crore took the losses caused to economic empire of Ansari and his henchmen above Rs 350 crore. Mishra managed all land related work of Mukhtar Ansari’s gang.” “Mishra is a property dealer and has been managing all land-related works of Mukhtar, his family and gang for a long time. His arms licences had also been cancelled along with those of the other members of Mukhtar gang,” the ADG added. He said action initiated against Mukhtar, his family and henchmen to destroy their economic empire created with illegally earned money has taken their losses to Rs 355 crore so far. A hotel of Mukhtar’s family had been razed in November and a shopping mall of his son had been sealed. Two illegally constructed buildings of Mukhtar’s sons Abbas and Umar in Dalibagh area of state capital had been demolished on August 27 as action was launched against his economic empire in Ghazipur, Mau, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Lucknow and other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-aides-six-floor-building-razed-in-gazipur/articleshow/79598588.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Meerut||Despite strict vigil, right-wing groupmarks Babri Masjid demolition day||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Members of a right-wing group assembled at a busy marketplace in Muzaffarnagar to celebrate the anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition on Sunday. They burst firecrackers and distributed sweets. Heavy police force was deployed in the area. The local police even used mild force to prevent the men from carrying out a procession. Manoj Saini, a member of right-wing group, said, "We wanted to go up to Shiv Chowk to celebrate, but police stopped us at Prakash market and barricaded the area. But, we already distributed sweets here." City magistrate Abhishek Singh said, "We spoke to them after they announced to mark 'Vijay Diwas'. They then agreed to celebrate in their office. Heavy police force was deployed to maintain law and order."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/despite-strict-vigil-right-wing-groupmarks-babri-masjid-demolition-day/articleshow/79596266.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Eyeing revenue, RSRTC to install LED TVs at 43 bus stands||Jaipur: Passengers travelling in Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) buses from various parts of the state would be able to get an idea on the arrivals and departures of various buses.RSRTC is coming up with a plan to install LED TVs at 43 major bus stands across the state on public-private-partnership mode. This would also give RSRTC a chance to generate extra income during Covid times.RSRTC CMD Rajeshwar Singh has issued instructions to the Information Technology Branch of RSRTC to provide information on bus traffic and timetable through LED TVs at the 43 bus stands for the convenience of passengers.“This would give passengers and their relatives an idea on the buses arriving at various bus stands and on their departures as it is seen at the railway stations and airports. We are planning to install nearly 400 LED TVs of 55 inches on 43 bus stands. We would show the movement and timing of buses through the Central Bus Inquiry System (CBIS) at these bus stands, including in Jaipur and other parts of the state,” Singh said.The IT branch would select the firms by seeking proposals from advertising agencies through open tender. “The firm would install LED TVs at its own cost, on which the roadways buses and traffic timetables would be displayed,” he added.In lieu of showing the arrivals and departures, the firm would be allowed to display commercial advertisements. “For playing commercial advertisements, they will have to give us some fixed amount in return which would be levied per bus stand per TV,” said a senior officer of RSRTC.The project will not bear any financial burden and is aimed at generating non-operating revenue. “In Covid times, when passenger load is less, it is better to think of ideas and models to generate non-operating revenue. This would certainly bring good revenue to the RSRTC,” said an officer of the commercial wing of RSRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/eyeing-revenue-rsrtc-to-install-led-tvs-at-43-bus-stands/articleshow/79597377.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Canacona locals push for registration of livestock||POINGUINIM: Stray cattle along the NH 66 in Canacona is proving to be a menace for drivers and riders as they block vehicle movement and have also led to numerous accidents. The members of different panchayats said that efforts to get cattle owners to register their livestock with the local authority have failed. Locals said the sight of cattle idling in the streets also harms the image of Canacona, whose beaches like Palolem and Agonda attract many international tourists annually. Locals said that in Canacona taluka, which is home to many agrarian families, cattle are owned by many households. But, unlike in the past, cattle owners are now seen behaving irresponsibly. Many are seen owning cattle without the necessary facilities for them like sheds and availability of feed and water. After milking the cattle in the morning, they are left to roam on their own and this is when the cattle is seen feeding on toxic garbage and squatting on busy roads thereby blocking traffic, said a local. “The owners are expected to feed their cattle regularly and not allow them to roam freely to, at times scavenge through garbage bins. Any negligence on the part of cattle owners should be dealt with strictly by the panchayat and municipality. They should register the birth and deaths of cattle,” said Canacona resident Remy Borges. Until some decades ago, cattle owners were seen making provision for cattle shed with storage facilities for the fodder. Owners would take up repairs of the shed roofing before the monsoon in Canacona. One person was also appointed to care for the cattle when they were let off for grazing, so they do not run astray on roads or ruin fields and plantations. This scenario has changed drastically over the years, said Vaibhav Prabhu, another Canacona resident. “Horns of each cow should be embedded with a digital microchip with the owners’ identity and relevant details, so that this can be accessed digitally on the spot,” said Prabhu. “Every owner is expected to register their cattle at the panchayat/municipality, paying a nominal yearly fee. Proper shed with fodder, drinking water and place for cattle to rest should be made compulsory,” said Shristhal panchayat member Ramu Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-locals-push-for-registration-of-livestock/articleshow/79598601.cms||Albert Fernandes
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||SC/ST scholarship scam: 28-yr-old man held in Muni-ki-Reti||Haridwar: A 28-year-old man was held by the local police for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam on Sunday. The accused Sachin Riyal is a resident of Sheesham Jhadi locality under Muni-ki-Reti police station jurisdiction of Tehri Garhwal district. The accused allegedly lured Class XII-passed students, belonging from Scheduled Caste community, in enrolling in a free-of-cost graduation course and managed to get their documents. Subsequently, he approached his accomplices who were associated with Swami Purnannad Degree College of Technical Education College in Rishikesh and secured scholarships meant for SC/ST students from the social welfare department. RK Saklani, SHO of Muni-ki-Reti police station, told TOI, “A case has been registered against the accused under sections 420 (heating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 471 (using as genuine a forged), and 120 b (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. We nabbed Sachin Rayal on Sunday. Further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc/st-scholarship-scam-28-yr-old-man-held-in-muni-ki-reti/articleshow/79596276.cms||MS Nawaz
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Man calls protesters Khalistanis, booked||Kurukshetra: Police booked a man for allegedly describing protesting farmers as Khalistanis on his social media account and using objectionable language against the Sikh community and their leaders. A case has been registered against the accused, identified as Rajesh Bansal of Sector 13, Kurukshetra, under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, 84B (abetment of offences) of the Information Technology Act at Thanesar City police station on the complaint of SAD Haryana spokesman, Kanwaljit Singh Ajrana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-calls-protesters-khalistanis-booked/articleshow/79598600.cms||JK Singh
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AQI very poor after wind aids dispersal of pollutants||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the capital improved marginally on Sunday after it slipped back to very poor category. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of the national capital was 389 on Sunday, as against 404 in severe category on Saturday. Met officials said the air quality is predicted to improve further on Tuesday and Wednesday. Experts said the air quality of Delhi was in ‘very poor’ zone due to accumulation of local pollutants, but the share of stubble burning was negligible. On Sunday morning, shallow fog was reported, with the visibility dropping to 600 metres in the morning. The minimum temperature was 11.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal, and maximum temperature was 28.2 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said, “After the wind direction changed from easterly to north-westerly on Sunday afternoon, the wind speed picked up, causing dispersion of pollutants. An average wind speed of 8 kmph was recorded on Sunday.” The System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said, “The overall air quality is at the higher end of very poor zone. Surface-level winds are moderate and North-northwesterly. The boundary layer wind direction is southerly and not favorable for stubble fire-related transport.” SAFAR counted 167 farm fires on its satellites and the share of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 % was negligible on Sunday. “Surface winds are forecast to increase and air quality is likely to improve marginally by Monday within the ‘very poor’ category, owing to slightly better ventilation condition,” said SAFAR. Met officials said the wind speed is likely to increase to 15 kmph on Tuesday and Wednesday, and would help in clearing the air. Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said though AQI is expected to remain in ‘very poor’ on Monday and Tuesday, the air quality is likely to improve and reach in ‘poor to moderate’ category by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aqi-very-poor-after-wind-aids-dispersal-of-pollutants/articleshow/79598617.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD chief backs nationwide stir||CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday appealed to party workers and Punjabis to give whole-hearted support to the Bharat Bandh call given for December 8 by farmer organisations. He said SAD would work side-by-side to ensure that the anti-farmer agricultural laws would be repealed. Stating that the fight for justice had now become a fight of ‘anndaata’ against the central government, the SAD president said, “I am confident that the mass agitation will force the Centre to bow down to the demands of farmers.” The SAD president said it was unfortunate that the central government was dragging its feet and deliberately delaying a decision on the demands of farmers’ organisations. “Old people, women and small children are part of the protest. “It is unfortunate that the Centre has refused to listen to the voice of the ‘annadata’ and is making them suffer in the biting cold in the open,” he added. Sukhbir said the central government did not discuss provisions of the laws with farmers and now when the farmers had made it clear that the laws were not acceptable to them, the government should repeal them immediately. The SAD leader said the right of farmers to peaceful protest had been lauded and everyone had stressed the need to ensure human rights of the protesters were protected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-chief-backs-nationwide-stir/articleshow/79598597.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||RHB’s weekend home lottery to be drawn today||\Jaipur: The Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) will draw the lottery for its ambitious weekend home scheme on Monday.Facing neck-and-neck competition from private players, the RHB recently adopted innovative methods to lure buyers towards its schemes.Unlike the orthodox housing colonies, RHB recently launched a cost-effective, weekend home scheme on the foothills surrounded by greenery near Naila. A senior official said, “After receiving good response in recent schemes, we proposed to develop a new scheme. The price of the duplex house in the scheme will be Rs 14.99 lakh. Facilities such as open-air theatre, children’s park, gym, food court will be developed in the scheme. The lottery will be drawn on December 7.” The board will also develop around 6,663 houses in these schemes across the state.An official said, the RHB was established in 1970 with the aim of providing houses on no-profit-no-loss basis. However, in the recent government, due to several cases of corruption relating to officials allegedly increasing prices of houses in connivance with the contractors, buyers have refrained from buying RHB flats. This pushed the board towards a financial black hole. It is believed that the new schemes will not only boost the revenue, but also provide good quality homes to people. “The RHB has good locations in the state and unlike private players it provides properties at reasonable cost to the buyers,” said an officialIn recent past, the RHB invited applications for 19 schemes, of which applications for 10 schemes were invited online and remaining 9 were invited offline. “The lottery of all the schemes, which will be launched across the state will be drawn in a phased manner. This week, for majority of the schemes, results will be announced,” he added.After a long span, RHB has launched an independent housing scheme for economically weaker section, lower income group and middle-income group (A) categories. The board has fixed Rs 5 lakh for these flats. Around 1,525 plots will be developed under the scheme in Mehla and Vatika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rhbs-weekend-home-lottery-to-be-drawn-today/articleshow/79597385.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||No flower exhibition in Rajasthan University due to pandemic||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan University (RU) has decided against holding any flower exhibition due to pandemic this year. However, sale of flower saplings will start from December 8. Due to pandemic, saplings will be sold only to educational institute like universities, colleges, schools or any private bodies. No individual will be allowed to purchase the saplings personally. Besides, receipts of institution will be made. It’s been more than three decades when the RU started its yearly sale of saplings. This year, more than 4,000 flower pots known as ‘Guldaudi’ are available in the university nursery. Ramavtar Sharma, in-charge of nursery, said that their target is not to let any crowd gather in the premises. “We will be organising the sale like every year, but bill will be made in the name of the institution for e.g. any college or university. No exhibition will be held this year and we will directly start selling from December 8 till all the pots are sold,” said Sharma. One flower sapling along with the pot will cost around Rs 100. Any institution wanting to purchase the flowers have to start booking a day in advance. To purchase on December 8, bookings have to be made on December 7 between noon and 2pm. Institutions have to send their employee with a permission letter on its letter pad to purchase the flowers and identity card of the employee. Nursery at the RU is spread in 6.5 acres of land. At one point, it had 154 gardeners which is now down to 18 permanent personnel. According to the university administration, within four years when the permanent ones will retire, it will be difficult for the university to maintain the nursery anymore. Gardener is a dying cadre which means the post of gardeners has now become obsolete as people will retire and no more posts will be generated. Ramavtar Sharma, manager of the nursery, has requested the state government for appointment on the post of gardeners. “A gardener on contract will not be able to work as efficiently as a permanent one. We have maintained the nursery so well and will do even better if we will get more staff,” said Sharma. With the decreasing number of staff to maintain we can say that we are seeing the last days of nursery at the RU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-flower-exhibition-in-ru-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/79597387.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||Trump lost election due to Covid mismanagement: JP Nadda||DEHRADUN: BJP national president JP Nadda on Sunday said US President Donald Trump lost the 2020 re-election bid due to covid mismanagement while the Modi government here, despite several hindrances and criticism, continued with the lockdown and managed to save the lives of crores of Indians. Addressing party workers in Dehradun, Nadda said that the UN secretary-general has also praised the Atmanirbhar Bharat vision and Garib Kalyan Yojana introduced by the Modi government. “The healthcare infrastructure in America, Italy and France are better than India but they all failed as the pandemic hit the world. Their management failed and their economies have shattered. It is because of Covid-19 mismanagement, Trump has lost the election. But Modi ji led our nation from the front and imposed lockdown,” said Nadda, adding that America failed to realise what is more important -- economy or health. “But Modi ji maintained that ‘Jaan Hai To Jahan Hai’,” said Nadda, adding that the Modi government made excellent preparations to tackle the pandemic during the lockdown. He said the country initially did not have a single testing lab to test samples for coronavirus but now it has over 15,000 labs. “Before lockdown, we had a capacity to test 15,000 people a day but now India has the capacity to test 10-20 lakh samples per day. We have donated paracetamol to 150 countries and even hydroxychloroquine,” said Nadda. Nadda said that WHO had accepted that India managed to save not just lives but even the economy. Addressing the meeting of booth level workers, Nadda said booth committees do the most important work of bringing the voters from their houses to the polling station and, hence, these party workers should work collectively in a harmonious manner and with integrity. “All other parties are limited to one family, while BJP is a family in itself. In BJP, a booth-level worker can also hold senior party posts. We give equal respect to women and this is why a lot of booth heads in BJP are women,” said Nadda. While speaking to social media volunteers in Dehradun, Nadda said that Narendra Modi is the most popular leader of India today and the government's plans and policies must be broadcast via social media to make every individual in the country aware of these. BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagar said this was the first time in the history of Indian politics when the ruling party’s national president participated in the programme of booth committee. The meetings were also attended by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, party’s in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trump-lost-election-due-to-covid-mismanagement-nadda/articleshow/79596270.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held for buying stolen diesel in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat ATS on Sunday held two persons, Kishore Khimaniya, 38, of Morbi and Izamul Solanki, 24, of Siddhpur from near Sola Civil hospital on SG Highway for allegedly purchasing stolen diesel and stealing the fuel from a punctured Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) pipeline near Chapri Village of Dahod Taluka. ATS officials said the accused confessed that one Hira Bamniya of Dahod had punctured the IOC pipeline and stolen two tankers of diesel from worth a total of Rs 24 lakh. DSP Bhavesh Roziya said, “Khimaniya was earlier booked by Banaskantha police for stealing diesel by puncturing an IOC pipeline on Palanpur-Chapi Highway.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-for-buying-stolen-diesel-theft/articleshow/79597392.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Separate rules for NMC, NMRDA areas, Metro corridor in unified DCR||Nagpur: After a wait of several months, the state government has finally notified the unified development control rules (DCR) for real estate sector. Even though the rules are same for the whole state, except Mumbai metropolitan region, there are special provisions for some cities including Nagpur. Separate rules have been notified for area falling under Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) and Nagpur Metro Rail Corridor (NMRC), the area 500 metre on either side of the Metro track. In NMC area, the floor to space index (FSI) for buildings outside congested area in commercial zone will be 2 for residential-cum-commercial and 2.5 for purely commercial. In congested areas, it will be 1.5 on roads having width less than 9 metre and 2 on roads having more width. In congested areas, the industrial FSI will be 1 while that in non-congested areas it will be 2.5. The FSI for residential plots, irrespective of road width, will be 1.25 in both congested and non-congested areas. Open land in industrial zone not leased by NMC or Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) can be used for residential purposes by paying premium equal to 15% of rate of developed land as given in annual statement of rates (ASR). For the plots leased by NMC or NIT, commercial use is also permitted on payment of premium equal to 20% of rate of developed land. These provisions will not be applicable to lands where an industrial layout has been approved. A residential belt 250 metre wide is proposed along the Outer Ring Road in NMRDA area. However, premium will have to be paid for the same. In agricultural zone in NMRDA area, residential use will be permitted subject to certain conditions: minimum area of land should be 15 hectares, land should front on minimum 12 metres of existing road, permissible FSI will be of residential zone, 10% area of the land over and above 10% open space will be handed over to NMRDA and premium at the rate of 5% of land rate in ASR will have to be paid for gross land. The special DCR for Metro corridor has been included in the unified DCR. The maximum permissible FSI for plots in the corridor will be 4, inclusive of basic FSI. The minimum FSI is 2 even for plots less than 1,000 square metre and lying on roads having width less than 9 metre. In order to promote affordable housing, the DCR stipulates that the minimum number of tenements should be gross plot area multiplied by maximum proposed FSI for residential space multiplied by 200 tenements per hectare. Additional FSI will be granted by the competent authority only after doing impact assessment of the implementation of the regulations. It should also contain integrated mobility plan envisaging therein inter-linkages between different modes of transport, parking management, traffic management and pedetrianisation. Transfer of development rights (TDR) will not be allowed to be loaded on plots in Metro corridor, irrespective of whether they are in congested or non-congested area. HIGHLIGHTS OF UNIFIED DCR FOR STATE · Lot of emphasis on promoting accommodation for economical weaker section (EWS) and low income group (LIG), including redevelopment of old dilapidated and dangerous buildings · Parking problems faced by small plot owners taken care of; as of now no parking is required for plots up to 100 sq mt and in case of independent single family residential bungalows having plot area up to 300 sq m, parking space is not be insisted separately. This may gradually increase roadside parking load which may make existing roads more congested · Parking requirements in general also marginally reduced, including removal of cycle parking completely · Green buildings promoted by providing marginally extra FSI in relation to GRIHA rating · Recreational floor in building above 30 metres height without FSI allowed · The development charges for building plan sanction increased drastically and now literally 5% to 10% of total construction cost · The basic FSI in congested zones ranges from 1.5 to 2. In municipal corporation areas it can increase to 3 after loading TDR while in other areas it can go up to 2.5 · The basic FSI for non-congested zones is 1.1. It can increase to up to 3 in municipal corporation areas and up to 2.5 in other areas · Rate of premium FSI will be 35% of the rate of land in ASR · The entitlement of TDR in non-congested area will be two times the area of surrendered land and three times for congested area. TDR certificate has to be issued within 90 days · The unified DCR also mentions street parking requirement, specifications of various parts of buildings, lighting and ventilation of rooms, etc||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/separate-rules-for-nmc-nmrda-areas-metro-corridor-in-unified-dcr/articleshow/79597451.cms||Ashish Roy
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||1,897 properties allotted on concessional rates under scanner||Jaipur: After receiving a list of 1,897 allotments made on concessional rates, all local bodies across the state, the Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department will start a physical inspection soon.Following the direction of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, the department issued the order on Friday to conduct an inspection in the next 15 days and compile a report. Action will be taken against the defaulters who are not adhering to the norms.Earlier, a report was sought from all the development authorities, urban improvement trusts (UIT) and Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) comprising the size of the land and date on which these plots were allotted. As allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as ‘primary attempt’ to woo a particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government decided to carry out a scrutiny of such land deals.A UDH official said, “To ensure that land allotted at concessional rates was not being misused for other purpose, a survey will be conducted to verify its usage.” The departments had received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place, which is against the norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1897-properties-allotted-on-concessional-rates-under-scanner/articleshow/79597390.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||No casualty, 114 contract Covid-19||Ludhiana: While no death was reported due to Covid-19, as many as 114 residents tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana on Sunday.However, two outsiders succumbed to the disease here on the day and 21 tested positive.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally was 915 and that of outsiders 397.To date, 4,777,769 persons have been tested.Of the 114 new cases, 57 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 14 positive cases’ contacts, 23 from OPD, 17 through tracing process, and two health-care workers.The local health department officials said the district case count was 23,452 and that of outsiders 3,358.So far, 21,624 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.20% of the total cases.There are 910 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 2,412.On Sunday, 206 persons were quarantined and 2,983 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-casualty-114-contract-covid-19/articleshow/79596284.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP Punjab chief says party backing bandh too||CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Sunday announced on behalf of national convener Arvind Kejriwal that the party would support the nationwide protest announced by farmers on December 8. Challenging the Modi-led NDA government, Mann said the Centre should agree to the demands of farmers and revoke farm laws as trying to let the farmers’ protests go on would backfire on the government. The issue is not specific to any political party, religion or community, it is an issue of the nation and its farmers, he added. The AAP leader said farmers were not just fighting for their survival, but they were also fighting for the country’s survival. Mann appealed to every citizen of the country to follow their duty and support the national bandh called by farmers and make it historic. The AAP leader also said there were many alliances that were trying to weaken the protests as farmers were proving a threat to them. Converting stadiums in Delhi into prisons was one of the plans to weaken protests, but the Kejriwal government foiled this plan, said Mann. Mann said Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and hispredecessor, Parkash Singh Badal , were as involved in weakening the protests. He said to save one cabinet seat, Badals supported the black laws until the end and spoke in their favour. “On the other hand, due to his weaknesses, Amarinder has become BJP’s CM,” said Mann.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-punjab-chief-says-party-backing-bandh-too/articleshow/79598611.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP says Yograj Singh should be jailed for his comment||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab BJP has demanded registration of a criminal case against former cricketer and Punjabi actor Yograj Singh for his alleged derogatory remarks against women and incitement of communal feelings in his address to farmers earlier this week. Lashing out at Yograj, father of cricketer Yuvraj Singh, Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said Yograj’s incendiary remarks demeaned womanhood in it entirety. After Yograj’s speech went viral on social media, Sharma demanded that he be booked and arrested immediately. Sharma said Yograj behaved like a street rogue while addressing a group of farmers and insulted women. He condemned the Punjab government led by Capt Amarinder Singh for letting “anti-Hindu” forces have a field day. “There has been a spate of incidents in which Hindus’ religious sentiments have been hurt but the Congress government took no action. It seems that Amarinder government is deliberately encouraging such anti-Hindu forces and taking no action against them,” Sharma asserted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-bjp-says-yograj-should-be-jailed-for-his-comment/articleshow/79598604.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||City bizmen stand behind farmers, will support bandh||LUDHIANA: In support to farmers’ call for an all-India bandh on December 8, a large number of Ludhiana traders and industrialists have decided to keep their establishments closed. Shopkeepers of the city’s prominent Sarabha Nagar market have unanimously agreed to keep their shops closed and some have pasted posters on doors, informing about it. Some have also started sending WhatsApp messages and SMSs to their customers, informing about closed day on December 8. Factory owners too have come forward to support the strike and a meeting was organised on Sunday afternoon in Janta Nagar that was attended by a large number of industrialists. Industrialist Jaswinder Thukral, who organised the meeting, said, “In order to benefit select corporates, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is sacrificing poor farmers of the country. Braving the cold weather, farmers and their families are camping on the borders of Delhi, asking the Centre to strike down the anti-farmer laws, but they are not being heard. In such a situation, it becomes the duty of everyone, including industrialists, to support our anndata.” Harjinder Kukreja, a restaurateur and member of Sarabha Nagar Market Shopkeepers’ Association, said, “This is the first time ever that we are supporting a bandh call, as we want to do our bit for farmers. We have decided to keep our shops and offices closed on December 8 and have already installed hoardings, informing customers about it. Besides, we are also making shopkeepers of other markets and residents aware about farmers’ cause and asking them to observe Bharat bandh.” Pawan Kumar Dand, industrialist from Shimlapuri, said, “Sunday’s meeting was attended by many businessmen from nearby areas, too, and everyone has agreed unconditionally to support the bandh call. .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bizmen-stand-behind-farmers-will-support-bandh/articleshow/79596277.cms||Mohit Behl
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire guts 20 shops in Ahmedabad's Bapunagar||AHMEDABAD: As many as 20 shops of different goods and items, mainly of cellphones and cellphone accessories, were gutted in a major fire that broke out in Shyam-Shikhar commercial complex in Bapunagar on Sunday morning. Officers of Ahmedabad fire and emergency services (AFES) said they got a call at about 6.58am and rushed to the spot. “We had deployed 12 fire-fighting tenders and a team comprising 50 personnel at the spot. After fire-fighting for about two hours, the AFES personnel were able to douse it. Nobody sustained burn injuries in the fire,” said a fire brigade officer. According to additional chief fire officer Rajesh Bhatt, the blaze in the three-storey complex started from a gas cylinder of a tea cart on the first floor. Soon, the fire gripped almost the entire complex, he said. “We have contacted the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL). The reason behind the fire can only be disclosed after the FSL report comes out,” he said. Bapunagar police officials reached the spot to assist the fire brigade personnel. “We are waiting for the report to learn the cause of the fire and will then initiate action. Nobody was injured in the fire as most of the shops were closed in the morning,”said a Bapunagar police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-guts-20-shops-in-bapunagar/articleshow/79597415.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Over Rs 14cr collected in fines under Epidemics Act||JAIPUR: Since the lockdown commenced in the state, cops have collected over Rs 14 crore in penalties under the Epidemics Act and over the weekend 977 people have been fined for not wearing face masks. Apart from this, since March, cops have collected approximately Rs 24 crore for traffic violations. A total of 3,794 FIRs have been registered till date for violation of prohibitory orders in which 9,822 accused have been named out of which 6,996 people have been arrested and in 3,451 cases, chargesheets have been submitted. In social media-related cases, a total of 232 cases have been registered in which 303 accused have been named. The social media cases pertain to the spread of fake news about the pandemic in which 256 people have been arrested and 329 complaints have been handled by SOG. The agency has registered 16 FIRs and arrested seven people. “While people are more aware and cautious about the pandemic now, we cannot at this point ease the checking as the number of cases continues to spike. Although people are generally following the rules, the biggest issue is that of social distancing and we are hopeful that regular checking would ensure that even the number of violations in this category comes down,” said a police official. In preventive action, 31,863 people have been arrested till date. Under the MV act, 12,65,150 challans have been done while 1,77,073 vehicles have been seized for violation of traffic norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-rs-14cr-collected-in-fines-under-epidemics-act/articleshow/79597399.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Constable killed after being hit by bike||JAIPUR: A police constable was killed in Jaipur’s Shyam Nagar when a speeding motorcycle hit him while he was on his way to report for his duty at the CID-CB office on Sunday morning. The deceased was identified as 56-year-old Chandrashekhar, who stayed close to the Shyam Nagar Mandi. “The constable was on foot and crossing the road to catch the bus to reach his work when a speeding bike hit him. The traffic police personnel took him to the hospital, but after a few hours of treatment, he succumbed to the serious injuries,” said an official of accident police station (south). According to officials, they are looking at the CCTV cameras in the area to find the accused biker. The incident happened around 9.30am on Sunday and officials claimed that the bike had to be at a substantially high speed because of which the constable suffered such fatal injuries. His body was handed over to the family after the post-mortem. Exactly a month before, a police constable aspirant was killed when a luxury car hit him on Sodala elevated road in Jaipur due to which he fell off the flyover and landed on the roof of a house below. The deceased was identified as 22-year-old Mada Ram who hailed from Pali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-killed-after-being-hit-by-bike/articleshow/79597395.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
December 7, 2020||India||BJP MP Hans Raj Hans faces ire of farmers in Punjab||Noted Sufi singer and BJP MP Hans Raj Hans on Sunday faced the wrath of farm activists at Moga, Punjab, where he had gone to pay tributes to BR Ambedkar on his 64th death anniversary. Farm activists and farmers assembled in large numbers at Shaheedi Park and surrounded his vehicle as he was leaving. Hans said, “I’m with farmers from the beginning of the protest. I’ll ensure their concerns are taken care of.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-mp-hans-raj-hans-faces-ire-of-farmers-in-punjab/articleshow/79599397.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Govt seeks views for CCTVs in OTs of pvt hosps||Jaipur: The health department has sought suggestions from the chief medical health officers over demand for installation of CCTV cameras in and outside of operation theatres (OT), big screen for attendants of patients in private hospitals.A letter has been received by the health department through chief minister’s office which was written by former general secretary of Ajmer Congress Ratan Lal Bakoliya. He had written that CCTVs should not only be installed in Ajmer but also in all private hospitals of the state. Besides, a big screen should be installed for attendants of patients, he had demanded.The health department has written to all CMHOs of the state to look into the matter and report to the health directorate with their remarks.Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Society (PHNHS) has objected against it and claimed that installation of CCTVs in operation theatre will breach privacy of the patients. Besides, the PHNHS objected against the language used in the order by the health department in which it is mentioned that “incidents are frequently reported of patients being killed by the doctors due to their carelessness in private hospital”.“PHNHS strongly condemns and opposes the issue raised and the unlawful and unparliamentarily language used in the circular. We demand that the government should immediately withdraw the circular. As a first step a legal notice is being sent to the department concerned followed by filing of a writ petition in the Rajasthan High Court,” said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary, PHNHS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-seeks-views-for-cctvs-in-ots-of-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79597400.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Occupancy 70%, airport authorities ask AI to run Delhi flight daily||LUDHIANA: As the Ludhiana-Delhi flight is running with over 70% occupancy after farmers’ protest, airport authorities have written to Air India to increase the frequency to all days of week. The local Air India officials have also recommended to increase flight frequency. In a letter to the Air India station manager, airport director SK Saran has said at present the flight operates on four days, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, and as the passenger load has significantly increased, it would be better if it runs daily. Saran said they expect the number of passengers would remain high in the coming days. Air India officials said they have received the letter and have forwarded it to the higher authorities. Air India station manager Arindam Chattopadyay said the response has been good and they have also recommended increase in the frequency. Air India officials said the farmers’ protest has proved to be a blessing for the flight, whose occupancy has increased from 20-30% to 70%, and they expect the response to remain the same even after the stir. They added that this was mainly because of the increased confidence of the travellers in air mode of travel after the road was blocked near Delhi. As per the latest data of flights operated by lone flight operator Air India between Ludhiana and New Delhi, in the first week of December, the number of incoming passengers was between 46 and 49 and of the outgoing was between 55 to 58. The data of November suggested that the number of incoming passengers from November 1 to November 26 (when farmers started the protest to Delhi) was between 14 and 30 and of outgoing was between 13 and 29. After the start of the protest rally on November 26, there was a jump in occupancy of the 70-seater flight with 44 passengers arriving from Delhi and 57 leaving. On November 28, as many as 64 came to Ludhiana and 65 left from Sahnewal airport. Residents also demanded increase in flight frequency. “As of now, travelling to Delhi by road is difficult as farmers are protesting, so air mode is a better way to travel. It will be great if they run the flight daily as businessmen have to go to the Capital for work,” said Gurpreet Singh, a city-based businessman. As per the revised schedule effective from December 1 to February 28, the lone Air India flight to city takes off from Delhi at 2pm and reaches Sahnewal airport at 3.15pm. It takes off from Ludhiana at 3.45pm and reaches Delhi by 4.55pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/occupancy-70-airport-authorities-ask-ai-to-run-delhi-flight-daily/articleshow/79596291.cms||Shariq Majeed
December 7, 2020||Kolhapur||No deaths recorded in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The district reported 16 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 49,160. There were, however, no deaths reported. The number of active cases has dropped to 260 after 25 patients were discharged. Till date, 1,687 have succumbed to Covid while 47,213 have recovered. Meanwhile, 173 people tested positive in Satara district on Sunday while nine died. Of the total 51,947 patients, 1,741 have succumbed to the infection while 683 are undergoing treatment. Sangli, Kolhapur’s neighbouring district, reported 29 fresh cases and one death on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 47,022. The death toll has risen to 1,703. Solapur city reported 12 cases and three deaths while the rural parts reported 102 cases and two deaths. The total number of cases in the city has reached to 10,516 while in the rural parts to 36,263.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-deaths-recorded-in-kolhapur/articleshow/79595714.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||‘Corona-free ward’ strategy in Jodhpur from today||Jaipur: State’s second worst Covid-affected district, Jodhpur is on a mission with its ‘corona-free ward’ strategy. Jodhpur’s pandemic situation started worsening from October 30 to November 5, when the cases were doubling in 106 days, since then the doubling rate became a cause of concern. From November 20 to 26, the cases were doubling in 67 days. It has, however, improved slightly in the first week of December when the doubling of cases is taking 89 days. Aiming at flattening the curve, Jodhpur’s district collector Inderjeet Singh is spearheading the ‘corona-free ward’ campaign. Teams of auxillary nurse midwives, ASHA and anganwadi workers along with sanitation inspectors, police beat constables and public representatives have a task in hand to reach out to each and every household in Jodhpur. Jodhpur South is the worst-affected and the focus will be on door-to-door survey in the municipal wards of the area. “Corona-free ward is a strategy devised by the district administration under which we have to conduct door-to-door survey aiming to minimise the number of Covid cases in worst-affected wards,” said Dr Balwant Manda, chief medical health officer, Jodhpur. Jodhpur and Jaipur are the two districts which are under the watchful eyes of the Centre. A central team had reviewed the Covid situation on December 3 and on the next day, chief minister Ashok Gehlot also held a video conference with the Jodhpur district administration asking the officials to flatten the curve. Under the campaign from Monday, super-spreader and high-risk patients will be identified, focus will be on contact tracing, identifying the areas where containment zones will be created, regular monitoring of patients under home isolation, municipal ward-wise surveillance committees will be formed and corona-free ward strategy will be implemented with the help of public representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corona-free-ward-strategy-in-jodhpur-from-today/articleshow/79597403.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Star tag for biz bodies for complying with Covid norms||Jodhpur: With a view to acknowledge the compliance of Covid guidelines by the commercial establishments of the city, the district administration rolled out a star campaign on Sunday.Acting additional district magistrate Seema Kavia and deputy commissioner (JMC) Akanksha Bairwa have been roped in as the convener and associate convener, respectively, of the team constituted for successful implementation of this campaign along with health officers of the JMC and CMHO and a representative of an NGO Sambhali Trust, which had played an active role in a campaign for awareness about masks in the city in association with the administration.District magistrate Indrajeet Singh informed the commercials establishments, shops, NGO offices, shopping malls, restaurants etc. adhering to Covid guidelines determined by the state and central governments, will be identified in this campaign and honoured in this Star Campaign attributing them as Stars.“This would not only recognise the seriousness of those entities but would also inspire and motivate others to comply with the Covid precaution measures,” Singh said.He said that such entities would be rewarded with a Star insignia under this Star Campaign programme, which they would be installing at the main gate or entrance of their offices or shops.“These insignia would on one hand remind people to be cautious and follow the guidelines, while on the other, it would give a sense of pride to the holders,” said Singh.This campaign is an extended part of the Mission Jeewan Raksha which had been rolled out by the district administration in July with a view to check Covid mortality in the district. On the other hand, a door-to-door survey is being initiated from Monday with the help of councillors of 40 wards of the city. These ward councillors will be updated about the positive cases in their wards and they will be keeping an eye on the areas in their wards, based on which the decision about the containment zone will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/star-tag-for-biz-bodies-for-complying-with-covid-norms/articleshow/79597407.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bride tests positive on day of marriage, ties knot at Covid care centre||JAIPUR: After being tested positive for Covid on the day of her marriage, a bride tied the nuptial knot by wearing personal protection equipment at a Covid care centre in Baran’s Kelwara area on Sunday evening. Among the guests allowed was father of the bride for performing ‘kanya daan’. Others who attended the marriage were the three-member committee formed by Baran district collector comprising SDM, Kelwara SHO and block chief medical officer Dr Arif for ensuring that the marriage was solemnized with full protocol. Video: A bride tied the nuptial knot at a Covid care centre in Baran’s Kelwara area yesterday after being tested po… https://t.co/6OAnMfZ9xw— TOI Jaipur (@TOIJaipurNews) 1607319255000“The marriage was performed following the Covid protocol. Even the pandit, who came for solemnising the marriage was wearing a PPE kit,” said Dr Sampat Raj Nagar, CMHO, Baran. The bride belongs to Nahargarh of Kishanganj block of Baran district. “A couple of days ago, the bride’s uncle and aunty tested positive. When contact tracing was conducted, samples of bride and other family members were taken. The result of the test report was recived today (Sunday) morning, which was also the day of marriage. The bride and her mother tested positive,” said Dr Arif. Before the health department team could reach her house in Nahargarh, officials came to know that she had already left with her family for Kelwara. The health department teams rushed to the spot and persuaded the families that the marriage cannot happen as the bride had tested positive. The family insisted that they cannot postpone the marriage as they had to follow the old rituals and traditions. After a long discussion with the district administration, it was decided to perform the marriage at the Covid care centre without any guest. Only pandit and father of the bride were allowed. A three-member team was constituted by the district administration to monitor the marriage. The health department provided PPE kits to the bride, groom, pandit and father of the bride. A mandap was also installed at the Covid care centre. After the marriage, the bride was admitted to the care centre along with her mother. The groom was also admitted as suspected patient and his samples have been taken and sent for test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bride-tests-positive-on-day-of-marriage-ties-knot-at-covid-care-centre/articleshow/79597401.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Railway minister ‘enemy of farmers’: Bittu||LUDHIANA: MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu has called railways minister Piyush Goyal “sabto shararti” (the most mischievous) minister in PM Narendra Modi’s cabinet. Bittu questioned Goyal’s presence in the meetings of farmers with the Union agriculture minister and others. The Congress MP claimed, “Railways minister Piyush Goyal ‘sabto shararti mantri hai’. He has caused a loss of over Rs 40,000 crore to Punjab’s industries. It was his strategy to stop the movement of all trains and show farmers in bad light, and also cause rift amongst farmers and industrialist, and rural and urban people.” “I had attended one of his meetings and I cannot even explain the kind of comments he made regarding farmer agitation, due to which I walked out of his meeting,” he alleged. “He is the biggest enemy of the farmers. In what capacity is he attending the meetings of farmers with the Union agriculture minister. Till the time he is attending these meetings, no conclusion would be reached. I urge farmers not to attend any meetings in which Goyal is present. Farmers should boycott all future meetings until Union minister Rajnath Singh is present. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rly-minister-enemy-of-farmers-bittu/articleshow/79598628.cms||Mohit Behl
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||RSRTC garners Rs 109cr in Nov, highest-ever in Covid times||Jaipur: Amid competition from the private bus operators and vehicles plying illegally, Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) has become popular mode of transport within and outside the state. The RSRTC has earned over Rs 109 crore in November which is highest-ever income during the Covid-19 period.Despite the fact that November saw an increase in the Covid-19 cases not only in Rajasthan but also in other parts, it was no deterrent for the passengers willing to take road transport.“We have earned over Rs 109 crore in November which is highest income during Covid times since we resumed our services in June,” said a senior officer of RSRTC.RSRTC in November decided to start its buses on contract and now it is plying in 11 states across the country. “For Delhi, we have even slashed our fares from Rs 900 to Rs 700 to lure the passengers,” said an officer.“We have been strictly following ‘no mask no entry’ and every bus is being sanitized before it starts its journey. I think this has given confidence to our passengers,” said Rajeshwar Singh, CMD, RSRTC.Even in October, the RSRTC had earned Rs 83.33 crore.After starting its services in phased manner in June this year, the RSRTC gradually increased its frequency of buses and also added more destinations to its schedule. Authorities ensured that every bus depot across the state should strictly abide the Covid-19 guidelines, including sanitizing of buses, use of masks by passengers along with drivers and conductors and checking the temperature of passengers before boarding the buses.“We have been properly following the Covid-19 norms. Passengers are allowed to board the buses only after checking their temperature and buses are properly being sanitised. This is the reason why passengers have shown interest in our buses,” said Sudhir Bhati, manager, public relations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsrtc-garners-rs-109cr-in-nov-highest-ever-in-covid-times/articleshow/79597419.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Overgrown trees on Maulingem road pose danger||BICHOLIM: Overgrown tree branches are seen protruding onto the main road leading from Bicholim to Maulingem, posing a threat to commuters. Locals from Bordem, Bicholim, who regularly use this road, said the trees need to be trimmed by the authorities concerned as the overgrowth is obstructing view of riders and drivers. They have demanded that either the Bicholim Municipal Council or the forest department take up pruning of these overgrown branches immediately. Santosh Mayekar, a bus operator from Maulingem, said that if action is not taken, it can lead to accidents and loss of life. “Due to these overgrown branches, leaning onto the road, driving buses along the road has become dangerous,” Mayekar said. Bicholim resident Pravin Teli said that the branches protruding onto the road have created a blind spot along a curve on the road from Bicholim to Maulingem, which makes it difficult to spot oncoming traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/overgrown-trees-on-maulingem-road-pose-danger/articleshow/79598729.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Shivaji University Kolhapur defers PG admissions||KOLHAPUR: Shivaji University Kolhapur (SUK) has become the first university in the state to defer the admissions to the postgraduate courses over the Maratha reservation issue. The admission process was supposed to begin from Monday. Several workers of Maratha outfits met the university vice-chancellor D T Shirke and demanded the process to be postponed to after the expected hearing in the Supreme Court on December 9. Shirke said the outfits demanded the postponement of the admission process as they claim many students will be affected by the stay on the reservation Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/suk-defers-pg-admissions/articleshow/79595721.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Baddowal villagers’ energy bars for protesting farmers: 300 kg pinnis||LUDHIANA: Namdhari sect followers and villagers of Baddowal are preparing 300kg ‘pinnis’ and 100kg ‘mathi’ (a savoury, flaky biscuit) for the farmers protesting at Delhi border. The villagers started preparing “pinnis” with desi ghee and khoya on Saturday so that the farmers, especially the elderly ones, get energy to carry on with the protest in these chilly conditions. A group of the villagers will take the sweet and savoury treats to Delhi on Monday. Manjit Kaur, 72, who is making ‘pinnis’, said, “Our sons, brothers and others are protesting against the contentious farm laws at Delhi border despite the cold weather. We are preparing ‘pinnis’ for them, so that they get energy to fight against all odds and face every hardship.”  She said she had been making ‘pinnis’ since Saturday. “I am not at all tired. My contribution is nothing as compared with farmers’, who have been sitting on protest for the past 11 days. Prime Minister Narendra Modi should solve this issue at the earliest as old people who have joined the stir are facing problems.” Harpreet Kaur, 50, said, “It’s our small contribution to the protesting farmers. We will continue to help them till this issue reaches its logical end.” Lakhbir Singh, a resident of Baddowal at whose residence the ‘pinnis’ are being prepared, said, “We have engaged five to six confectioners for confecting the ‘pinni’ and ‘mathi’ mixture. Twenty to 25 women of our village then make round ‘pinnis’. Two of these ‘pinnis’ are equal to one square meal. Some of the villagers have already left for Delhi to support the agriculturalists. They will return after another group reaches there on Monday. We will keep on helping the farmers if the protest continues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/baddowal-villagers-energy-bars-for-protesting-farmers-300kg-pinnis/articleshow/79596319.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Kidnapping of hotelier’s son: Another accused, wife held||LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police on Sunday made two more arrests in the kidnapping of the two-year-old son of hotelier Pankaj Gupta. They nabbed Lal Singh and his wife Mandeep Kaur of Kot Ise Khan, Moga. Lal Singh was one of the main executors of the crime and his wife has been arrested for helping the accused. According to the police, the accused woman kept the child in her house for four hours and was aware that he was kidnapped and a ransom had been sought. Besides, the city police have also booked another Lal Singh for helping the accused. This namesake of the Kot Ise Khan accused is the sarpanch of Maluwal village in Moga. The Ludhiana police had earlier arrested Rachpal Singh of Zira and the Moga police held driver Harjinderpal Singh, alias Harjinder Kumar, of Ludhiana and Sukhdev Singh Sukha of Kheowali, Fazilka. Another accused, Sukhdev Singh of Arniwal, Fazilka, is still at large. Additional deputy commissioner of police-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said Lal Singh had made the ransom call to the kidnapped child’s mother and the police have arrested his wife Mandeep Kaur too. After the accused reached Moga in the Swift car of Pankaj Gupta, they had to abandon the vehicle since its registration number was with the police. Lal Singh called his brother Rachpal Singh, who, along with sarpanch Lal Singh, reached the accused in a Volkswagen Polo car.” “Rachpal and Lal Singh exchanged the cars. Lal Singh handed over the child to Rachpal and asked him to take the kid to his house. The sarpanch and Rachpal took the child to Lal Singh’s house and handed him over to Mandeep Kaur. The kid remained there for four hours. Mandeep was aware that the kid was kidnapped for ransom,” the ADCP added. He said late at night, the accused took the child and they stayed at the house of Lal Singh’s cousin, Manjit Kaur, for a while. The role of Manjit Kaur is also being probed, he said, adding that after the police pressurised the accused, they abandoned the child near Dugru railway crossing in Moga in the Volkswagen Polo car and escaped to Ferozepur. The police have, so far, recovered both the cars and arms and ammunition from the accused. The case Around 1.20pm on December 1, driver Harjinder Singh left the house with Pankaj Gupta’s son for a car ride as per the daily routine. At 2.30pm Mukta Gupta, mother of the child, received a ransom call from an unidentified number. The caller said the child and the driver were in his custody and demanded Rs 4 crore. In a joint operation, the Ludhiana and Moga police recovered the child from Dugru railway crossing in Moga in 15 hours. Driver, aide booked for peddling drugs ADCP-II Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “We have recovered 295g of an intoxicating powder from Harjinder’s house in SBS Nagar. Harjinder has confessed that he, along with Lal Singh of Kot Ise Khan, had been peddling drugs for long. A fresh FIR has been lodged against the duo under the NDPS Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kidnapping-of-hoteliers-son-another-accused-wife-held/articleshow/79596305.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 7, 2020||Kolhapur||Cane vehicles banned in Kolhapur during the day||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur police have banned vehicles carrying sugar cane to the factories from passing through the city between 6 am and 8 pm to reduce traffic congestion. Shailesh Balkawade, the district superintendent of police said, “Traffic regulations and restrictions have come into effect from Saturday and will stay in place till the end of the crushing season. The traffic department has been asked to ensure the regulations are followed. Vehicles carrying sugar cane will be allowed at night, except those travelling along permitted routes.” The police administration has planned the separate routes for the tractors and bullock carts transporting the sugar cane to the mills. The transportation of sugar cane to the seven mills takes place through the city, the nearest being Rajaram Sugar Mill on the city’s outskirts near Kasba Bawda. Every day, hundreds of these vehicles pass through the city causing traffic snarls at several places. Also, such heavy loaded trolleys and carts pose a risk to commuters. Most routes allowed for transportation are in the fringe areas. Now, those areas are also crowded. Hence, such heavy vehicles are bound to cause vehicular traffic. For instance, Kasba Bawda’s main road remains congested since it is one of the major entry routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cane-vehicles-banned-in-city-during-the-day/articleshow/79595719.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kochi||BJP defends naming campus after M S Golwalkar||Thiruvananthapuram: With both Congress and LDF speaking in one voice against the Union government’s move to name the new research facility at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology after RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar, BJP leaders on Sunday have issued statements supporting the Centre’s decision. “He was a professor of Zoology in Benares Hindu University. He left his studies while doing his PhD in marine biology, and became an active member in RSS. It should be made clear on what basis is it being said that his name should not be used for the new facility,” Union minister V Muraleedharan said in Kasaragod. He further added that the Left has given the names of even those who have been jailed for anti-national activities to several institutions. There were several communist leaders who were jailed in 1947 and 1962 for anti-national activities, he said, adding that UDF had named a government college in Perinthalmanna in Malappuram after an IUML leader who was not even an MLA. He said the state BJP unit had no role in naming the institute, and that it was a decision taken by the governing council of the institute. Speaking to reporters here, BJP state president K Surendran said a controversy was being created out of nothing. BJP leader M T Ramesh said Golwalkar, an MSc degree holder, had a great vision about the scientific development of the country. He said Golwalkar’s ideas and teachings are relevant in present times. He countered the CPM, saying that the party should make it clear the basis for naming a football stadium in Kozhikode after EMS Namboothiripad. The decision to name the facility after Golwalkar had invoked strong criticism from LDF and UDF leaders who said that the move by Sangh Parivar was to deepen the communal divide. Leaders, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had demanded that it should not be named after the RSS ideologue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bjp-defends-naming-campus-after-golwalkar/articleshow/79596333.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Truck-bike collision kills woman, husband near Ladowal toll plaza||LUDHIANA: A couple of a village in Ludhiana died after a truck ran into their bike at Satluj river bridge near Ladowal toll plaza on Sunday afternoon. Surinder Singh, 40, a farm labourer, and his wife Surjeet Kaur, 38, residents of Qutbewal Gujjran village, Ladowal-Hambran Road, were going to Nawanshahr when they met with the accident. Ajmer Singh, cousin of Surinder, said, “Surinder and Surjeet left their house around 1.30pm Sunday to visit the latter’s family in Nawanshahr. They planned to stay there overnight and return on Monday morning.” Around 2.15pm, the family received a call from Surinder’s phone. “Police had made the call to inform us about the accident. We rushed to the spot along with the couple’s three sons,” he added. Their sons are students of classes XII, X, and VIII. “The kids are inconsolable. There is no one to take care of them. The family is not well-off,” he said. Ladowal police station SHO sub-inspector Baljeet Singh said, “The accident occurred on Satluj river bridge after crossing the toll plaza.” Following the crash, passersby raised the alarm and stopped the truck. They caught hold of its driver and handed him over to the police. The police have arrested the accused, Naveen Kumar, 25, of Uttar Pradesh. “Naveen said he did not realize when the truck hit the motorcycle. A case will be registered after recording the statements of the kin of the deceased,” the sub-inspector added. The accident led to a traffic chaos on the stretch. After police reached there, the vehicular flow was regulated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/truck-bike-collision-kills-woman-husband-near-ladowal-toll-plaza/articleshow/79596329.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 7, 2020||Goa||Zilla panchayats polls: Prep exam for Goa CM and team||PANAJI/MARGAO: The zilla panchayats may have been reduced to “powerless” entities in Goa, but the December 12 polls to elect members of the second tier panchayati raj institution is seen as a litmus test for chief minister Pramod Sawant and the ruling BJP — for various reasons. First, this comes at a time when the groundswell, at least in South Goa, seems to be against the Sawant-led government in view of the opposition to the linear projects proposed through the biodiversity-rich western ghats region of Mollem in general and double tracking in particular. With the South Goa BJP MLAs, including some ministers, feeling jittery over the protest against the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects, BJP has gone on the defensive, telling protesters that the fate of the double tracking project and coal transportation will be decided by central ministers during their soon-to-be scheduled visit to Goa. BJP, however, has been looking at the polls as an opportunity to demonstrate its popularity in the state under the leadership of Sawant. That’s the reason BJP was pushing for holding the polls in March itself before the pandemic could strike hard. Since Sawant took over the reins of the state following the demise of Manohar Parrikar in March 2019, BJP has had a mixed fortune with the electorate. In a decisive victory, BJP won the bypolls winning four out of five seats in May 2019 and retained the BJP-led government in the state. That gave the party an edge over Congress, increasing its strength to 17 in the 40-member House. However, when the Modi wave swept the country, BJP suffered a setback by losing the South Goa Lok sabha seat. Two months later, BJP fortified itself by poaching 10 MLAs from Congress taking its strength to 27 thereby reducing the Congress tally to 5. BJP had won 13 seats during the 2017 polls. It seems to be on the added strength of neo-BJP MLAs that the party is taking on the opposition as it has the numbers on its side. On the other hand, Congress with its house divided has its own set of problems, and BJP seems to be leveraging Congress’ weakness to its advantage by engaging in confident posturing for the December 12 polls. A victory in the ZP polls, however, will signal the party’s resurgence just ahead of the 2022 polls, which could provide armament for its rank and file to take over the might of the BJP BJP managers wants to show that the party can win the ZP polls under Sawant’s watch, as the district-level panchayat elections will be a precursor to the 2022 assembly polls hardly 15 months away, though municipal polls are also likely to be held soon as their terms have also ended with administers now ruling the urban local bodies. It will be a morale-boosting victory for BJP cadres and workers if it wins the ZP polls. Victory in the ZP polls will be taken by the party as a referendum on its policy on the issues people are fighting against, particularly the three linear projects. Also, the party will be able to overcome the criticism over “mismanagement” of the Covid situation in which nearly 700 people have lost their lives so far. If BJP wins the ZP polls, Sawant will be able to assert himself in the party and also silence his detractors within the government and the party. The ZP polls, as also the forthcoming assembly elections, will be more crucial for Sawant’s leadership, political analysts say. Its utility value as an assessment tool for electoral strength apart, zilla panchayats in Goa have been reduced to insignificance, fighting as they are a losing battle over devolution of funds, powers and functions ever since they were set up in 2000. This sense of “powerlessness” has propelled many a ZP member to take the route to power by entering the legislative assembly. Consequently, the ZP membership is seen by many contestants as the gateway to the portals of power, as seen from the fact that several of those from the current crop of MLAs had used the zilla panchayat polls as a launching pad to make it to the state assembly. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++ Current MLAs who were ZP members in the past North Goa Pandurang Madkaikar, Michael Lobo, Jayesh Salgaokar, Dayanand Sopte, Jennifer Monseratte. South Goa Chandrakant Kavlekar, Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco,Clafacio Dias, Wilfred D’Sa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zp-polls-prep-exam-for-sawant-and-team/articleshow/79597423.cms||Vijay de Souza
December 7, 2020||India||BJP: Arrest Yograj for ‘communal and anti-women’ speech||CHANDIGARH: Punjab BJP on Sunday demanded that a criminal case be registered against former cricketer and Punjabi actor Yograj Singh for allegedly making derogatory remarks against women and inciting communal passions in his speech at Singhu Border on Friday. Singh’s speech has gone viral and he is being trolled for the remarks he made while addressing farm protesters. Lashing out at Singh, who is cricketer Yuvraj Singh’s father, Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said his comments “demeaned womanhood in its entirety”. He demanded that Singh should be arrested immediately and said the latter “behaved like a street rogue” while addressing farmers. He also condemned the Punjab government led by Capt Amarinder Singh for letting “anti-Hindu forces have a field day”. “There has been a spate of incidents in which Hindus’ religious sentiments have been hurt, but the government took no action. It seems that the Amarinder government is deliberately encouraging such anti-Hindu forces,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-arrest-yograj-for-communal-and-anti-women-speech/articleshow/79599447.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Girl kills herself as dad struggles to pay Rs 40,000 fees||BELAGAVI: A month after the death of a 19-year-old Telangana girl studying at Delhi’s Lady Shri Ram College triggered protests and debate on students facing financial hardships due to Covid-19, a second-year BCA student from Belagavi district committed suicide as her family was struggling to pay Rs 40,000 college fees, reports Basavaraj Meeshi. Mehak Sangolli, 20, was found hanging by her father Shakeel Sangolli. Cops: Dad was ready to pay fee in partsShakeel Sangolli found his daughter Mehak’s body inside a toilet in their house in Bidi village of Khanapur taluk. She was studying in a private college in Haliyal, Uttara Kannada district. Sources said the family of five was facing financial crisis as Shakeel lost his job after a nationwide lockdown was imposed due to Covid-19. Mehak’s mother is a homemaker and her brothers are studying in classes 4 and 10. Daughter was missingShakeel recently regained his job as a helper at a grocery shop nearby. On Wednesday, he came home in the afternoon. Thinking his daughter was offering namaz, he had lunch and returned to work. When he came back in the evening, he found his daughter missing and the toilet was locked from inside. He broke open the door and found Mehak hanging. “She was a bright student and wanted to secure a good job to take care of the family. The college has been demanding Rs 40,000 fees after it reopened in November. She was upset as I was struggling to arrange the money. She kept saying that she is a burden on the family,” Shakeel told TOI.Nandgad police have registered a case of unnatural death. “The girl took the extreme step after seeing her father struggle to pay her fees. The family had made arrangements to pay Rs 40,000 to the college in instalments,” sub-inspector US Awati said. “The lockdown came as a jolt for the family. Mehak took the extreme step after she saw her father struggling to arrange the fee amount,” said Shameer, a family friend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/girl-kills-herself-as-dad-struggles-to-pay-40k-fees/articleshow/79599452.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Minor raped by 4 youths in Shivamogga; two arrested||SHIVAMOGGA: A minor girl taking care of her mother at McGann Hospital, a Covid care centre here, was sexually assaulted allegedly by four youths near Shivamogga late Saturday evening. One of the accused is a contract worker at the hospital. Police arrested two suspects within hours of the incident which exposed the lack of security at the biggest government hospital in Malnad districts. Deputy commissioner KB Sivakumar visited the hospital and reviewed security at the facility. The girl, 16, is the only child and her father is dead, police said. The family lives in Shivamogga city. Her mother was admitted to the hospital 15 days ago after she tested positive for Covid-19. Family members are allowed near the Covid ward, but not allowed inside. Prime accused convinced girl to go for ride, dine with himThe prime accused befriended the girl and would get her food. Owing to communal tension in the city, authorities have clamped night curfew. The prime accused convinced her to go for a ride on Saturday evening in a car for dinner and promised to drop her back at the hospital, police said. He took her near Ayanuru, 20km from Shivamogga city. There were three other men in the car. They stopped the vehicle at an abandoned place off Shivamogga-Sagar highway and raped her, police said. All four are over 18 years and residents of Shivamogga and had planned the assault. They dropped her back at the hospital late night. She informed her mother who told relatives and called hospital staff and lodged a complaint at Doddapete police station. Cops got hospital staff to check the girl’s health and she was sent to Sakhi, the counselling centre attached to the department of women and child welfare development. With her statement, police on Sunday morning took into custody a youth who led them to another accused. Shivamogga superintendent of police KM Shantharaju said, “A case has been registered at Doddapete police station under the Pocso Act.” Police said the two suspects have been subjected to a Covid test and being questioned. They are looking for the other two accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/minor-raped-by-4-youths-in-shivamogga-two-arrested/articleshow/79599456.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government may allow those with comorbidities to self-register for shots||BENGALURU: India, which faces the daunting task of identifying high-risk people with comorbidities, may consider allowing them to self-declare their condition to get the vaccine. Not all states have data on this set of people who have to be inoculated after healthcare and frontline workers. Part of India’s vaccine-delivery preparation is to tag and track vaccines from the place of origin (ports/pharma firms) to person receiving the dose. This will be enabled by the CO-WIN app, an upgraded version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) used for other immunisation programmes since 2015. While eVIN tracked vaccines up to the cold chain, CO-WIN will track them to the last mile. Every person receiving a vaccine will get an SMS with details of date, venue, time of vaccination and name of vaccinator. The app will also generate certificates. VACCINE PLANNINGData from 3rd round may see people self-registeringBeneficiary data for the first two rounds will be entered by state authorities, while data from the third round, which will prioritise comorbid people, may see individuals self-registering. “Self-registration option has been included in CO-WIN and local officials will authenticate applications before vaccination. The option is disabled at the moment as governments will enter data of healthcare workers,” Arundathi Chandrashekar, director, National Health Mission which will spearhead vaccination, told TOI.The government has kept the option of collecting data of persons with comorbidities and uploading them as bulk entries, but this would require massive data across the states which may not be viable within dedicated timelines. “If such data is unavailable and/or any surveys planned are not complete, the government is likely to allow self-registration. A central committee is deliberating various options,” Arundathi said. Up to 20% May Be ComorbidExperts part of ICMR and other government of India committees said various options, including self-declaration, using the non-communicable diseases (NCD) national database and door-to-door survey findings in states like Karnataka and Mumbai region may be considered. “Around 15%-20% of the population may have comorbidities. The NCD data is not complete and has only passive enrolments which started in October 2019 and only a third of data has been digitised. We’ll soon be starting an active survey and hope to cover the entire population by 2022. We’re likely to include additional fields in surveys to include comorbidities,” Arundhati added. Some states like Karnataka are looking at additional fields for comorbidities as part of the National Family Survey. “Everything will depend on the central guidelines,” Arundathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-may-allow-those-with-comorbidities-to-self-register-for-shots/articleshow/79599461.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bareilly||Boy, 10, shot at during celebratory firing at pre-wedding event in UP||BAREILLY: A 10-year-old boy was left critically injured after sustaining bullet wounds due to celebratory firing at a pre-wedding event in Mailani, Lakhimpur Kheri district, on Saturday night. The child was rushed to a hospital, but his family tried to cover up the incident as the accused was his own uncle - the groom's father. Ramprasad Chauhan alias Bhure had organised a ‘tilak’ ceremony days before his son’s wedding. Relatives from the bride's family had arrived with gifts. Soon, the groom's father got carried away. He became drunk and started shooting in excitement. The young victim was identified as Randheer. He belongs to Puranpur and is a close relative of the bride. The boy is currently under treatment at a local hospital. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said, “Mailani SHO Vidyashankar Shukla rushed to the venue, but no one was ready to share any information. Thereafter, he spoke with a few locals. An inebriated Ramprasad was involved in celebratory firing." The accused has been booked under IPC section 307 and sent to jail, the Kheri SSP added. Celebratory gunfire is a punishable offence and could lead to two years in jail along with a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh. But, several cases continue to surface in Uttar Pradesh. The latest incident comes just a week after a bride's kin was killed during a celebratory firing in Sambhal district. In another recent wedding event of a former UP minister's son in the Bareilly division, some guests fired in the air reportedly in the presence of lawmakers and cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-10-shot-at-during-celebratory-firing-at-pre-wedding-event-in-up/articleshow/79596340.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 7, 2020||Goa||SC tags Goa’s review plea with mining cos’ petition||PANAJI: The Supreme Court has tagged Goa government’s review petition with the special leave petition (SLP) filed by mining companies seeking to extend their leases till 2037, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. Speaking to TOI, Pangam said that hearing in both matters will come up simultaneously and is tentatively listed for hearing on December 14. In August, the state government had filed an application before the apex court asking that its review petition be tagged along with the one filed by the mining companies. Pangam had told TOI that “there are some common points, facts and law in both the cases and that they should be heard together”. The government had filed a review petition in 2019 against the apex court’s February 2018 order that had quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases and stopped mining activity in the state. The case is crucial to the resumption of mining in the state. Mining companies had filed a SLP after the high court had dismissed their petitions challenging the Goa, Daman and Diu (Abolition and Declaration of Mining Leases) Act, 1987. During the Portuguese era, the appellants were granted mining concessions, which were converted into mining leases under the abolition act. The SLP stated that the act should be made applicable from 1987 instead 1961. The state government, before the SC, said that the mining companies had made a representation to the mines department contending that under the amendment to Section 8A of the Mines and Minerals Development Act, they are entitled to extend their mining leases up to 2037, but that it would abide by the decision of the court. Last week, chief minister Pramod Sawant said the mining activities in the state will resume within the next six months after weighing all options including auctioning of leases, provided there are no legal issues. Sawant held a meeting yesterday with Union mines minister Pralhad Joshi, mines secretary, members of the Goa Mineral Ore Exporters’ Association (GMOEA) besides others in Delhi. Sawant had said, “both Centre and state have started adopting measures to restart mining. We have fast-tracked on this front. Now there is a day-to-day correspondence between the directorate of mines and geology, Goa and the ministry of mines over mining resumption.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-tags-goas-review-pleawith-mining-cos-petition/articleshow/79597430.cms||Murari Shetye
December 7, 2020||Kanpur||SIT to recreate crime scene of anti-Sikh riots at 19 spots||KANPUR: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) will recreate the crime scene of the 19 incidents during the anti-Sikh riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur on October 31, 1984 in the aftermath of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination. The SIT members will visit 19 crime spots with forensic experts and recreate the crime scene along with eyewitnesses. They will also question locals on the chain of events on October 31, 1984. “In order to understand the sequence of events of any crime, it’s ‘nazri naksha’ (city map) is an important link. Right now, we are in the process of preparing ‘nazri-naksha’ of 1984 with regard to 19 cases related to the anti-Sikh riots that broke out in pockets of Kanpur on October 31, 1984 in the aftermath of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination. Lot of geographical changes have taken place at the 19 crime spots in the past 36 years. Through ‘nazri naksha’, we will try to understand the crime spots of 1984 geographically,” said SIT member-secretary, SP Balendu Bhushan Singh. “We are also trying to contact 56 eyewitnesses as they will be of great help in providing inputs to us. The ‘nazri naksha’ will then be submitted in the court on the lines of submission of chargesheet,” Singh added. The state government had set up SIT on February 5, 2019, to probe the circumstances leading to the riots in which at least 127 people were killed in Kanpur. The team was set up after the apex court issued notice to the state government in August 2017 on a petition seeking SIT probe into the riots. The four-member SIT is headed by retired UP DGP Atul. The other members are retired district judge Subhash Chandra Agarwal and retired additional director (prosecution) Yogeshwar Krishna Srivastava. SP Balendu Bhushan Singh is its member-secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sit-to-recreate-crime-scene-of-anti-sikh-riots-at-19-spots/articleshow/79598718.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 7, 2020||Bareilly||UP dentist treats patients even after testing Covid positive, booked||BAREILLY: A team of health officials raided a dentist's clinic in Uttar Pradesh's Bareilly on Saturday after receiving a complaint that he was attending to patients - most of them elderly - even after testing Covid-19 positive. The dentist initially claimed that he had recovered from the infection, but a rapid antigen test showed otherwise. An FIR has been registered after a complaint by an additional chief medical officer. The dentist is reportedly absconding and the police along with teams from the health department are trying to trace him. He tested positive a week ago, and on Saturday he told one of his patients that he has recovered without following the Covid norms. The patient informed the Covid helpline and district surveillance officer (DSO) Dr Ranjan Gautam sent a team to his clinic in the Kotwali area. A test was immediately done and he was found positive. And the dentist has disappeared since. The dentist has put many lives at risk as he was treating more than 30 patients a day, Gautam said on Sunday. Most of his patients were elderly. "We had to take the help of the police as he had gone missing. We are also trying to trace all the patients treated by him recently,” the DSO added. Kotwali SHO Geetesh Kapil said, “He has been booked for negligence under sections 269 and 270 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. We are checking private hospitals as he could admit himself for treatment. We will find him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-dentist-treats-patients-even-after-testing-covid-ve-booked/articleshow/79596341.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 7, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 3 trick businessman into buying ‘wonder’ bulb for Rs 9 lakh||BAREILLY: After 'Aladdin ka chirag', magic glass and a two-headed snake, in yet another similar case, three men from Uttar Pradesh conned a Delhi businessman by selling him a ‘karamati' bulb for Rs 9 lakh claiming it attracts gold and other expensive metals and would bring him instant prosperity at home and work. The trio have been arrested. The accused, who belong to Lakhimpur Kheri district, showed one of their tricks in front of the businessman with "special" magnets and convinced him. The Delhi man was reportedly desperate to reclaim his fortunes after suffering recent trade losses due to Covid-19. The cops received a complaint at Sadar Kotwali police station from one Nitesh Malhotra - the conned businessman. A crime branch team along with local police then picked up the three accused - Chutkan Khan, Masoom Khan and Irfan Khan. It all started when Nitesh’s friend had received a call from one of the accused who asked him to check the ‘karamati' bulb for "prosperity", Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull told TOI on Sunday. Nitesh went by his friend’s advice and bought the dark red LED bulb with special magnets attached for Rs 9 lakh. Soon, he realised that he was tricked, the SSP said. "Irfan has half a dozen cheating cases registered under his name. Masoom was earlier booked for cheating and dacoity too. The trio are from Kheri's Nighasan area,” the SSP added. Notably, two men in UP had recently tricked a London-returned doctor of Rs 2.5 crore by selling him 'Aladdin ka chirag' promising that it could fulfil all his wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-aladdin-ka-chirag-3-up-men-sell-karamati-bulb-to-delhi-bizman-for-rs-9l/articleshow/79596337.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 7, 2020||Pune||2,800 school staff in Maharashtra test Covid +ve in mandatory screening||PUNE: As many as 2,800 teaching and non-teaching staff in government schools across the state have tested positive for Covid-19 when they took the RT-PCR tests. They cannot report to their schools till they fully recover and get a negative report. The highest positive reports have come from Chandrapur with 265 teachers and 115 staff members showing Covid-19 infection. Tests for over two lakh teaching and non-teaching staff have been conducted so far, and the results of another one lakh employees will be out in this week. The tests were made mandatory by the state government before reopening of schools on November 23. Only those teachers who tested negative for the infection were allowed to report to teach classes 9, 10 and 12, which are crucial academic years. The drive started around November 19, after the state government announced the reopening of schools for senior classes. Educational institutes in rural areas in the districts permitted face-to-face teaching for these classes while municipal corporations across the state said they will wait. Data provided by the Maharashtra State Council of Education Research and Training (MSCERT) indicated that there are 2,27,775 teachers in the state and 92,343 non-teaching staff. Of these, till mid-last week, 1,51,539 teachers and 56,034 non-teaching staff had been tested. MSCERT officials said, “Covid-19 testing is still under way in many districts and their reports are coming in. Teaching and non-teaching staff who tested positive have been taking treatment at the government-run Covid care centres.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2800-school-staff-in-state-test-covid-ve-in-mandatory-screening/articleshow/79597445.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||‘Ayurveda can help boost immunity’||LUCKNOW: Ayurveda has not only helped people in developing good immunity, but also trees mentioned in it helps in bringing down the air pollution levels. This was told by experts during Navbharat Times ongoing ‘Arogya Vatika’ initiative under which medicinal and aromatic plants section is being set up in city parks to make people aware of the importance and health benefits of these plants. On Sunday, the ‘Arogya Vatika was set up at Kudiya ghat and the special guest on the occasion was director, Centre of Biomedical Research, Alok Dhawan. “Instead of rushing to the market to get Ayurveda items, why not one grows medicinal plants in one’s own house. Ayurveda not only has a cure for health ailments, but also trees that find a mention in it help in cleaning the air,“ said Dhawan. He said that air pollution adversely affects mental health so it’s essential to plant trees that give more oxygen and helps clean the environment. Residents living in the nearby area appreciated NBT’s effort. If you are interested in getting ‘Arogya Vatika’ set up in your locality please drop a mail at nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayurveda-can-help-boost-immunity/articleshow/79598743.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow safe for women: UP earns Centre applause||LUCKNOW: If you are being stalked or harrased, don’t shy away from lodging a complaint, as round-the-clock women assisted patrolling facility is available in the city. Under the Safe City Project, the Lucknow police has exclusively deployed 100 all women two-wheeler and 10 four-wheeler patrol vehicles. Measures put in place by Lucknow police for the safety of women and girls under Safe City Project have been appreciated by the central government. Reviewing the implementation of the project in eight states, the Centre lauded the UP government for making Lucknow safer. Two other cities, Hyderabad and Chennai, also won accolades. In 2018, the central government had disbursed Rs 2,919 crore to eight cities under Nirbhaya Fund for women’s safety measures. Lucknow received Rs 194.4 crore. Additional chief secretary (home), Awanish Awasthi, said: “Efforts made by the government in strengthening Lucknow’s security under Safe City Project has been acknowledged by the central government. Installation of CCTVs and pink booths at different crossings along with pink patrol vehicles, exclusively for women, has helped in security enhancement.” Other measures, both technical and non-technical, are also being taken from time-to-time to ensure women’s safety, he added. “Besides Lucknow, Hyderabad and Bengaluru were also appreciated for their efforts in making cities safer for women,” Awasthi said. Recently, the state government also started a 180-day campaign under which all departments, including police, will jointly work in the interest of women. Additional director general (ADG), women and child safety, Neera Rawat said 100 pink two-wheelers and 10 pink four-wheeler female vehicles were being operated in Lucknow which were connected to 112 emergency facilities. These vehicles are equipped with first-aid kits and flash lights. “The patrol vehicles are being operated by women cops and exclusively deal with crimes related to women,” she said. Another officer said 30 pink booths had been activated at prominent crossings for women in distress. Expansion of Women Power Line 1090 with 80 more terminals would improve facilities, the officer added. A home department official said 60% expenditure of the scheme was borne by the Centre while the remaining cost was incurred by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-safe-for-women-up-earns-centre-applause/articleshow/79598772.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Man killed in road accident at Aldona||SALIGAO: Karnataka native Basappa Holikar, 28, died in an accident at Aldona on Saturday. He lost control of the motorbike he was riding and banged into a wall of the Corjuem bridge. The accident occurred around noon when Holikar was riding from Aldona towards Corjuem, police said. The body was sent to the district hospital in Mapusa for an autopsy to be carried out. Further investigations in the case are being carried out by Mapusa police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/man-killed-in-road-accident-at-aldona/articleshow/79598781.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Bihar labourer participates in sand art festival in spite of Rs 90,000 loan burden||BHUBANESWAR: On Sunday, when sand artist Madhurendra Kumar (26) returned home to Bijabani South village in Bihar’s East Champaran district, he carried with him a sense of satisfaction at having been able to showcase his passion at the 9th International Sand Art Festival. Kumar’s participation was all the more significant as he has to service a debt of Rs 90,000; money he took from a local money-lender when work was hard to come by during the lockdown. Kumar is a graduate-turned-daily labourer. His earlier attempts to get a job in the military, police and the CRPF, as well as to start a coaching centre, failed, forcing him to take up anything that comes his way. “Getting a job in Bihar is difficult. Unemployment was the biggest issue in the recently concluded assembly elections in the state,” said Kumar, who quotes from Bhojpuri song ‘BA Karke Bakri Charawatwa’ to make light of his suffering. He sustains himself and his wife by earning around Rs 350 daily as a wage labourer. Art has distanced Kumar from his family. Angered at how much time he was spending pursuing art, Kumar’s father, a farmer, had asked him to leave the home when he was just 13. He then worked as a labourer to sustain himself and his passion for art and went on to complete his graduation. He is still estranged from his family. “I restarted labour work a month ago, after the pandemic eased a bit. When the invite for the festival at Chandrabhaga came, I had to make the hard choice of staying away from work for nine days. I consulted my wife. Knowing my passion, she asked me to go ahead,” said Kumar, who, like other artists, has received a token participation fee from the organisers. In Bihar, Kumar has participated in the Buddha Mahotsav at Bodhgaya and Rajgir and the Sonepur Mela, as well as in a festival in neighbouring Nepal. He has had his photographs published in local Hindi newspapers and been felicitated by the local administration. Similar photographs of ace artist Sudarshan Patnaik had inspired him to take up sand art in 2011. Kumar honed his skill in sand art on the banks of the Arun, a tributary of the Baghmati that flows close to his village. Earlier he would make clay images in his field. His favourite images are that of goddess Saraswati and the Buddha. “I learnt by myself. The sand of the river has silt in it, but that of the seashore is grainy, making it easier to mould images out of it,” said Kumar. There is little appreciation for Kumar in his village, but that does not deter him. He understands that his neighbours have to toil hard to sustain themselves, and an appreciation of art is a luxury they simply cannot make time for.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bihar-labourer-participates-in-sand-art-festival-in-spite-of-rs-90k-loan-burden/articleshow/79596360.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Elcot Trichy IT park expansion to begin soon||Trichy: Two years after the expansion proposal, the public works department has identified a contractor for the Elcot Trichy IT Park expansion project at an outlay of Rs 48 crore. Having completed the administrative work for the proposal in the IT park situated in Navalpattu, PWD is likely to commence the civil work shortly. For the first time, PWD was roped in to execute and supervise the project, which was done by private companies through bidding. The phase I of the IT park that sprawls across 60,000sqft is completely occupied. Elcot sources said that demand from IT and ITeS companies based in Bengaluru, Chennai and even Trichy had pushed them to go ahead with the expansion. PWD’s building maintenance and construction wing said that the proposed phase II layout will have four floors in addition to the ground floor with 1.13 lakh sqft floor area. Barring the common access area, reception space and restrooms, the park will have exclusive office space for 62,000sqft. “Foundation work will commence soon. The estimated duration of the project is 18 months,” an official said. As Coimbatore was also sanctioned an expansion plan for its Elcot IT park along with Trichy, both projects will take off at the same time. Sources said that the chief minister is likely to initiate the event. Phase II of the IT park is expected to generate thousands of direct employment besides paving way for the development of suburbs near Trichy airport, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/elcot-trichy-it-park-expansion-to-begin-soon/articleshow/79598782.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 7, 2020||Business||Goldman Sachs, Sarvara, Edelweiss to extend Rs 2,185cr debt to Kesoram||Kolkata: Goldman Sachs, Sarvara Investment Fund of Cerberus Capital Management and Edelweiss group would extend a debt of Rs 2,185 crore to Manjushree Khaitan-led Kesoram Industries. The company has called an extraordinary general meeting on December 28 for shareholders’ approval. A source close to the development said that there would be some front-loading of the returns as alternative funds do so. The real debt would be Rs 1,800-1,900 crore. The debt would be a combination of non-convertible debentures and optionally convertible debentures (OCD). The OCDs (up to Rs 700 crore) would be converted into equity in case of defaults. The amount raised through these investors would be used to repay existing loans and to meet capital expenditures. Main lenders of the company are SBI, Axis Bank, South Indian Bank, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and WBIDFC along with others. It is also issuing some equity to the existing lenders by converting some debt which would lead to 10% equity stake in the company for lenders. Kesoram had earlier written to stock exchanges that as part of the resolution plan approved in-principle pursuant to the RBI circular of June 7, 2019 issued for providing the framework for resolution of stressed assets, conversion of the existing loan into Equity Shares upto Rs 100 Crores, Zero Coupon Optionally Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares up to Rs 500 crore to the existing lenders. According to sources, existing lenders currently have no equity exposure in the company. The promoters’ stake in the company would get diluted by 3-4% following the exercise. Now, promoters have little over 53% in the company. On debt and hybrid instruments, the company has said that the board gave approvals to enable the company to issue securities at an appropriate time Kesoram has got in-principle approval from its lenders to go ahead with its fund-raising and subsequent debt recast plan on November 25. The company has already pared debt by around Rs 1,000 crore following demerger of the tyre division of the company into a new entity Birla Tyres. It is learnt that the fund would be used mainly to pair long-term debt, which is around Rs 1,500 crore. The total debt of Kesoram is Rs 2,100-2,200 crore, rest is working capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/goldman-sachs-sarvara-edelweiss-to-extend-rs-2185cr-debt-to-kesoram/articleshow/79597862.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||NMC forces agency to reinstall city bus stop at same spot||Nagpur: Following strictures from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) after TOI highlighted dismantling of a city bus stop near Durga Mata Mandir on Pratap Nagar Square-Mate Square road allegedly to favour a builder, the contractor agency Signpost India Pvt Limited has started to reinstall the bus stop at the same spot. The civic body, however, has not taken any action or imposed penalty citing the contractor has started work to facilitate the bus stop for passengers. TOI had on December 1 exposed the contractor removing the bus stop without seeking permission or intimating NMC regarding the removal of the structure. The bus stop was situated on footpath in front of a vacant plot. A builder had purchased the plot and also an adjacent one for a project. Two shopkeepers from the area had alleged that the structure was removed around a fortnight ago as it was seen as an obstacle for the project by the builder, who considered it to be devaluing the upcoming project because of the bus stop right in font of the plot. Taking cognisance of TOI’s report, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B slammed the officials of NMC’s traffic department and warned of action if the bus stop was not reinstated at the same spot immediately. Accordingly, the officials swung into action and ordered the contractor-agency to facilitate the bus stop as soon as possible. The agency has now started to set up new Smart model of city bus stop at the same spot. But the new one is being set up 2-3 feet away from the earlier location. The shopkeepers who had informed TOI earlier said, “It is being done so that entrance gate of the proposed building can be widened. However, people will get to use the bus stop,” they said. The city bus stop was used mainly by residents of Gopal Nagar, Pratap Nagar and Atrey Layout. After dismantling the structure, the contractor had not even levelled the surface of the footpath. Debris was left as it is, forcing commuters waiting for city bus to sit on the debris or stand on road. The contractor had installed 158 bus stops across the city between 2010 and 2012 on his own cost and was supposed to recover the investment and earn through advertisements placed on the bus stops till March 2021. The same contractor had also obtained three more work orders in 2016 in which it was supposed to replace existing 158 bus stops with new Smart model ones, erect old ones on internal roads and establish 197 new bus stops at other spots within a year. However, the contractor had replaced only 42 existing bus stops. Two more bus stops on Pratap Nagar Square to Mate Chowk too have been left untouched, say sources. NMC officials said the contractor will be compelled to replace remaining bus stops with Smart ones as soon as possible. Officials from Signpost did not respond to TOI’s call and message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-forces-agency-to-reinstall-city-bus-stop-at-same-spot/articleshow/79597457.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: MTC terminus to come up at Kilambakkam before March||CHENNAI: Commuters struggling to board MTC buses at the congested Vandalur zoo junction can from March use a spacious facility in neighbouring Kilambakkam. Delay in construction of the mofussil bus terminus for south-bound fleets at Kilambakkam has helped speed up completion of an MTC terminus on the same premises. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), which is executing the mofussil terminus project, now plans to open the MTC terminal before March 2021. This will pave the way for shifting MTC buses from outside Vandalur zoo on GST Road to the built-up facility in Kilambakkam, helping ease congestion at the key junction. The mofussil terminus was scheduled to be completed by March 2021, but the still raging Covid-19 pandemic has ensured construction will now be finished by December 2021. This has now helped the CMDA focus on finishing the MTC terminus, which was included in the mofussil project to benefit long-distance bus passengers alighting at Kilambakkam. A housing and urban development department official said the government wanted to know if the MTC terminus could be finished by month-end. “But, it will take three months to complete all the work. It (MTC terminus) will be first facility to be inaugurated at Kilambakkam,” he said. The MTC terminus will have 11 platforms over 36,200sqft, where buses from Vandalur zoo would be shifted. In 2002, after the CMBT came up at Koyambedu, buses on routes 15B and 27B, which were operating from Arumbakkam to Broadway and Anna Square, were shifted there. Currently, buses on routes 19V, 21G, 70V and 91V, operated from Vandalur zoo to Sholinganallur, Broadway, Koyambedu and Thiruvanmiyur, are parked on both sides of GST Road at Vandalur troubling commuters due to absence of a shelter or terminus. It is also a bottleneck for motorists. K Revant Kumar, a resident of Kandigai in the southern suburbs, said the problem had become severe after a bridge at Vandalur was opened because it is hard to turn from Vandalur-Kelambakkam High Road towards Tambaram on GST Road beneath the flyover, thanks to the parking of MTC fleets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtc-terminus-to-come-up-at-kilambakkam-before-march/articleshow/79597455.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Path near Chathiram bus stand slushy||Trichy: The continuous rain in Trichy city has turned the temporary access way behind the Chathiram bus stand into a swamp. Local people said that working women, especially those employed in commercial streets nearby depend on the stretch to access the temporary bus stops near Chathiram bus stand. As Chathiram bus stand is undergoing renovation under the smart cities mission, the facility remains closed and temporary bus shelters were established around the bus stand. Local people use the road connecting Melachinthamani with the College Road behind the bus stand to board city buses heading to Thuvakudi. Due to rain, the access road has become inaccessible as it appeared like a marshland. Trichy Corporation claimed that the access way was a temporary facility and will be closed soon. “Soon we will close the temporary access way. The road is not a public path, but a project site,” an official source said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/path-near-chathiram-bus-stand-slushy/articleshow/79598789.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath lauds home guards for role during Covid lockdown||LUCKNOW: Lauding the efforts of home guards during coronavirus lockdown, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the jawans helped thousands of students, workers and labourers reach their home districts. Addressing the foundation day celebrations of homeguard department, the CM announced Rs 5 lakh financial assistance not only to the kin of home guards laying down their lives in the line of duty but also to those suffering permanent disability. This was after a span of almost 28 years that the home guards department organised celebrations on the actual day of its foundation (December 6). A special parade was organised in the honour of CM Yogi Adityanath. “Jobs will also be provided to the kin of home guards who get permanently disabled or die in the line of duty. Earlier, the families of such homeguards were given monetary help either by insurance companies or by the welfare funds but the assistance was not adequate,” he said. “The state government has also announced daily wage of a jawan equivalent to civil police constable at Rs 600 along with Rs 103 dearness allowance,” he added. The CM said at least 200 home guard havildars had been trained by central agencies to use Insas rifles. “These master trainers are now teaching the operation to home guards at 12 training centres in the state,” he added. Yogi added that under vocational skill development programme, 1,200 home guards were trained by the government for flood, disaster relief and rescue operations. Skilled trainers of NDRF also trained 180 havildar trainers and 204 block organizers in disaster management at training centres in Gorakhpur and Lucknow. The CM gave commendation disc and citation certificate to home guard Jayram Katiyar of Kanpur who suffered injuries during raid for arrest of mafia Vikas Dubey in Bikru (Kanpur) and to home guard Manju Kumari of Ghaziabad, who saved lives of 10 employees, when the driver of a vehicle ferrying enforcement team of Ghaziabad Development Authority suffered a heart attack and the vehicle went out of control. The CM asked handed over cheques of Rs 5 lakh each to the wives of home guards who died in harness. The CM also inaugurated the newly-constructed Chetan Chauhan divisional training centre (home guard) in Moradabad, divisional and district homeguard offices in Agra, Jaunpur, Hamirpur, Fatehpur and Fatehgarh. Additional chief secretary (home guards) Anil Kumar said National Informatics Commission was working to digitise attendance of home guards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-lauds-home-guards-for-role-during-covid-lockdown/articleshow/79598788.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Trichy district facing 35% deficient northeast monsoon||Trichy: Despite three consecutive days of rainfall through the weakened cyclonic storm Burevi, the district is still facing 35% deficit in northeast monsoon rainfall, based on the normal and actual rainfall received in the northeast monsoon period.If not for cyclone Nivar, Trichy district was facing a relatively dry northeast monsoon season till December. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) statistics, after Nivar cyclone the district had -54% deficient rainfall. Subsequently after Burevi cyclone, that weakened over Gulf of Mannar and brought moderate rainfall for consecutive days in the first week of December, the northeast monsoon deficiency was slightly addressed. After Burevi, the rainfall deficiency was 35%. Against the 333mm of normal rainfall in the district between October 1 and December 6, Trichy received only 217.3mm rainfall. The rain-fed regions in the district including Manapparai, Marungapuri and Thuraiyur have not received adequate rainfall while the city, Thuvakudi and Lalgudi localities received moderate rainfall. The 3-5cm rain that lashed rain-fed regions in the last few days have not been sufficient to meet the deficiency. However, normal rainfall was realised in Perambalur, Pudukottai, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts in the central region, thanks to Burevi. However, Karur and Ariyalur were among the districts that are yet to realise normal rainfall. “In the last week of December, there is a possibility of heavy rainfall again for the entire state. We can expect two severe spells of rain within the year, that may convert the districts with deficient rainfall to excess,” said N Selvakumar, Mannargudi based independent weather observer. IMD has also predicted isolated heavy rainfall to occur in the state on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-district-facing-35-deficient-northeast-monsoon/articleshow/79598791.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune records 2nd lowest temperature of the season||PUNE: The city recorded the second lowest temperature of the season and the lowest in the state on Sunday, with the minimum temperature droping to 10.4°C, which was below normal by two degrees Celsius, the IMD stated. The previous lowest minimum temperature was recorded on November 12 at 9.8°C, which was below normal by 4.9 degrees Celsius. “The reason behind the fall in minimum temperature is local weather condition, due to the hilly region around the city associated with clear sky and less moisture-level in the atmosphere. So, the mercury level has come down to below 11°C,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecast division of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, said. The Lohegaon observatory recorded minimum temperature of 13.7°C, which was above normal by 0.7 degree Celsius, on Sunday. However, Kashyapi said that the night temperature would increase and hover between 12-14°C over the week in the city. “The wind pattern will mostly remain Southerly/South easterly. As a result, the moisture-level in the atmosphere will increase .There won’t be any impact of Northerly wind on these days over the city. As a result, the temperatures will increase by 3 to 4°C,” a met official said. The city’s night temperatures had gradually started falling from December 3. The Shivajinagar observatory had recorded 13.5°C, which was above normal by 1.1 degree Celsius, on December 3. The mercury level had further gone down to 11.9°C, which was below normal by 0.5 degree celsius on December 4. On the next day, it had reduced further to 11.5°C, which was below normal by 0.9 degree Celsius. In fact, the night temperatures in the last week of November and at the beginning of December were above normal by 4-5 degree Celsius, IMD officials said. Nashik was the second coldest in the state after Pune on Sunday, with a minimum temperature of 10.6°C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-records-2nd-lowest-temperature-of-the-season/articleshow/79597459.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Western disturbance in the hills takes sting out of chill||LUCKNOW: A western disturbance affecting the northern hills has taken the chill out of the winds sweeping the state and the city, pushing mercury levels above normal on Sunday. Similar situation will prevail till Friday after which chilly winds are expected to revive. “Western disturbance is causing rain and snow in hill regions and has cut off the movement of chilly winds towards the plains. As a result, people got relief from wind chill effect in UP. The western disturbance is expected to prevail till Friday. Till then, no significant change is expected in weather conditions in the state and the city,” state Met director JP Gupta said. “Temperature will drop as soon as the winds revive. This will bring the chill generated by the snow in the hills to plains,” he added. Maximum temperature in Lucknow on Sunday was 28 degrees Celsius, about two units above normal, and the minimum temperature was 12.7 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. As a result of the rise in mercury level, the formation of fog was less which also helped in reducing air pollution levels. Shallow to moderate fog is expected during morning hours on Monday but thereafter the sky will be clear. Maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 28 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively. However, temperature will drop by 2-3 degrees on the weekend. Weather is most likely to remain dry in other parts of the state with possibilities of shallow to moderate fog at a few places. West UP may also witness thundershowers in coming days but conditions in east and central parts of the state would remain dry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/western-disturbance-in-the-hills-takes-sting-out-of-chill/articleshow/79598801.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Buzz in rural schools with more pupils attending class||PUNE: The attendance in classes for standards IX, X and XII in rural schools has improved from a low five per cent in the first week to 12.3 per cent at the end of the second week. Schools in rural areas of Pune district opened for senior classes on November 23. After the state government declared that the schools would open for these classes, the Pune zilla parishad (ZP) started preparations and reopened the schools after conducting the RT-PCR tests for teachers. The first week saw low attendance, but at the end of the second week, the attendance had doubled. Education officers said gradually, there will be more students joining as parents have now gained confidence and are willing to send their children to school as these years are crucial for senior class students. Education officer Ganpat More said the initial hesitancy among parents to send their children back to school has been overcome. “After the successful first two weeks, more students are joining and we are also able to open up more schools in the district following all precautionary guidelines,” he added. Teachers are multitasking with recorded videos in classrooms for those who are not able to come to schools and taking up face-to-face teaching for those who are attending physical classes. The online classes began on June 1, but since std IX, X and XII are crucial years, the schools were reopened after following all safety precautions. The education office has been inspecting all schools for their students, sanitising systems, seating arrangement, daily temperature and oxygen checks, and also the consent letters from parents. The teachers have been told to report to schools with their RT-PCR negative reports. There are close to 8,000 aided, unaided, private and ZP schools in Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and Pune rural. This includes 3,500 ZP schools. These schools have 70,633 teachers employed for standards I to XII. The number of teachers from standard IX to XII is close to 40,000 in Pune city and rural areas. Of these, about 22,522 teachers are teaching in Pune rural areas. RT-PCR tests of all these teachers was to be done. Other precautionary measures to be followed included cleaning of toilets thrice in a day, a thermal gun at schools’ entrances, cleanliness norms in the mid-day meal scheme, social distancing norms during breaks in autorickshaws and buses, two shifts student count is large, and immediate testing of students with symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/buzz-in-rural-schools-with-more-pupils-attending-class/articleshow/79597458.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Bird count triples overnight as Vedanthangal tank brimming||CHENNAI: The Vedanthangal birds sanctuary, with thousands of migrants and local species breeding and roosting, is finally filled to its 16 feet capacity. Until now, wildlife officials said, excess water from the Valayaputhur lake used to enter the channel taking it to Vedanthangal tank. This year, before the onset of the northeast monsoon, the path to the channel was covered with concrete by miscreants. While rain from Cyclone Nivar filled the Vedanthangal and Valayaputhur lakes, water flow to the channel was hit by the concrete block. After the issue was brought to the notice of the authorities, PWD officials, after an inspection, broke the concrete block. Subsequently, revenue officials, PWD authorities and wildlife managers met the residents of Valayaputhur and stressed the need to allow water to flow into the Vedanthangal lake. Now, after continuous rain over the past week, the tank is full of water. “Excess water is flowing through one of the weirs,” said an official. And, more birds have begun flying in. A couple of mornings ago, wildlife officials counted about 5,000 birds. The next evening, their numbers had almost tripled, he said. However, the sanctuary is not yet open to visitors despite the government giving its nod to open tourism spots more than a week ago. State chief wildlife warden Syed Muzammil Abbas said proposal for reopening national parks, sanctuaries and tiger reserves from managers are expected next week. “After scrutinising them and formulating a standard operating procedure, they will be thrown open to visitors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bird-count-triples-overnight-as-vedanthangal-tank-brimming/articleshow/79597460.cms||P Oppili
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Stalin visits rain-affected areas in Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam||Tiruvarur: DMK president MK Stalin visited inundated areas in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts on Sunday and met with people, including farmers and fishermen, affected by cyclones Nivar and Burevi, on Sunday. He visited several inundated pockets in the district and distributed relief materials to the people in relief camps. At the relief centre at the panchayat union school in Kavanur village, in Koradachery union in Tiruvarur, he distributed relief materials such as blankets, rice, dal and other essentials. On the way to Kankoduthavanitham village, he took stock of samba paddy crops inundated in Thirumathi Kunnan and Thazhakkudi villages in Tiruvarur. He also visited Kankoduthavanitham, Kamalapuram, Keezhamanali, Mangudi and Vadakarai villages. According to officials, around 2.3 lakh acres of samba paddy crop have been inundated in both the districts during the recent cyclones. In Nagapattinam districtm Stalin visited inundated habitations and paddy fields in Thirukkuvalai, Melapidagai, Keelaiyur, Kolappadu, Thirupoondi, Velankanni and Thethi. DMK principal secretary K N Nehru and Tiruvarur district secretary Poondi Kalaivanan were also present during the visit. Stalin also paid floral tributes to the portrait of Dr B R Ambedkar placed at the former’s ancestral house in Thirukkuvalai in Nagapattinam district as part of his death anniversary. He visited rain-affected areas in Cuddalore on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stalin-visits-rain-affected-areas-in-tiruvarur-nagapattinam/articleshow/79598807.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Socio-economic survey to trace roots of 1L households||Jaipur: A first of its kind socio-economic survey covering over 1 lakh households in Jaipur’s Walled City is undergoing for the world heritage site aiming to revive and track the two-centuries-old business practices, structures, literature, customs, rituals and ceremonies. The experts say that houses may be 1 lakh but, in several houses, more than one family is residing giving it an opportunity to deal with a much larger sample. Explaining the importance of the scheme, R K Vijayvargia, chief town planner, says that to collect exhaustive data on the several aspects of the families, many of whom have lived since the formation of Jaipur. He informed that this kind of study is unique as it was not done anywhere in the South Asian World Heritage Sites. “Old documents say that Jaipur was placed for 36 Karkhana (Business) flourished until the early twentieth century. Due to modernization and industrial expansion, several of these practices have gone missing from the mainstream. The survey will help us in tracking the families whose elders were some point of time part of those practices,” said Vijayvargia. Experts said that reviving the old practices are also part of UNESCO mandate. Historian Zahida Shabnam says tracking the old business practices has become a trend in Europe and South American nations and seen as part of cultural identity. “These business practices are still relevant in the modern world and reviving could reverse the cultural ethos of the families. A proper policy intervention could give the residents of UNESCO heritage site in Jaipur sustainable livelihood opportunity,” said Shabnam. The survey process has started and due to pandemic, it is being done in a staggared manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/socio-economic-survey-to-trace-roots-of-1l-households/articleshow/79597466.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Camel rearers in a fix as govt stops conservation scheme||Jaisalmer: With its numbers continuously dwindling, the condition of state animal camel has turned pathetic as the government has stopped all schemes for its conservation. The camel development scheme that was launched in 2016 with the help of the central government for its conservation was stopped in March 2019 and the subsidy of Rs 5.81 crore to be disbursed to hundreds of camel rearers is lying outstanding. As the Centre has stopped the flow of funds, camel rearers are disappointed and losing interest in the trade. According to the state animal husbandry department, the number of camels is decreasing every year. In 2014, looking at the incessantly declining numbers, the government gave it the status of State Animal under which a camel development scheme was implemented under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana. The government under this scheme was to give Rs 10,000 in three installments on birth of a camel calf. But the central government after March 2019 stopped this scheme temporarily. Degrai Camel Organisation president Sumer Singh Bhati, who has around 500 female camels, said earlier camels were used for commuting and farming, but now with new techniques, the utility of camels has reduced and its importance is going down. Camel rearers are losing interest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/camel-rearers-in-a-fix-as-govt-stops-conservation-scheme/articleshow/79597496.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Pune||Man seeks lift, robs rider’s scooter, cash & cellphone||Pune: Giving lift to an unknown person on the Wakad-Hinjewadi Road cost a 25-year-old man his scooter, cash, cellphone, collectively worth Rs42,000, during the early hours of Friday. The suspect hit the victim, Vishwas Ugale, with an iron rod on his legs, before fleeing with the latter’s scooter. Ugale lodged an FIR with the Hinjewadi police on Saturday night. Sub-inspector Kavita Rupnar of the Hinjewadi police said Ugale runs a flex printing business at Dange Chowk in Wakad. On Friday around 1am, when Ugale was returning to his house in Adarshnagar, Hinjewadi, the suspect stopped him near Wakad police station and requested him to drop him at Dange Chowk. The man later told Ugale to drop him in Hinjewadi. “When they reached Hinjewadi around 1.30am, the man told Ugale to stop as his house was located nearby,” Rupnar said. When they stopped, the suspect took out an iron rod, which he had hidden inside his clothes, and hit Ugale on his legs. “After pushing Ugale, he snatched his cellphone and Rs2,600 and fled with Ugale’s scooter,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-seeks-lift-robs-riders-scooter-cash-cellphone/articleshow/79597463.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Pune||Six cars vandalized, nine detained||PUNE: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Sunday detained nine men and booked 10 others after they vandalized six cars with stones and sharp weapons in Ambegaon Pathar on Saturday night. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “We filed a case of riot and mischief against the group. The incident occurred because of a payment issue of maintenance fees of a housing society in the area”. A local resident, Prithviraj Mahendra Bhosale (27), lodged a complaint with the police. “The incident occurred around 8.30pm on Saturday. A group of men reached the spot on their two-wheelers, wielding stones and sharp weapons,” he said. One of the detained men had an argument with an office bearer of the housing society in the area over the issue of payment of maintenance fees of the society on Saturday night. The office bearer told him to pay the fees soon and the man felt humiliated, police said. The man ten called his friends. The group group went on a rampage, wielding stones and sharp weapons. The group damaged the front and rear windshields and windows of six cars parked on the narrow public road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-cars-vandalized-nine-detained/articleshow/79597470.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Pune||Low-cost STP set up on NCL campus||PUNE: The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-run National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) has set up an environment-friendly sewage treatment plant (STP) developed by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), Nagpur, on its Pune campus. The NCL is first to adopt this technology for treatment of sewage. The NEERI developed technology is Phytorid-based for domestic and industrial sewage treatment with higher stability to recover, recycle, and reuse treated water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/low-cost-stp-set-up-on-ncl-campus/articleshow/79597467.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Demand for extending river linking to Pudukottai||Trichy: Upgrading Pudukottai to a city corporation, extending the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking project to Pudukottai district, were some of the major demands put forward by people from the district to the DMK’s poll manifesto panel on Sunday. The panel, led by DMK treasurer T R Baalu and Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchy Siva and T K S Elangovan visited Pudukottai district on Sunday to meet people from various walks to get their inputs to prepare poll manifesto of the party for the upcoming assembly election. The meeting was attended by traders, farmers, artists, restaurant owners, rotary members, social workers and public representatives. DMK MLA from Thirumayam S Regupathy who also attended the meeting said that the river linking project covers only a few parts of the district, demanding extending the project to all parts of the district. A section of people sought removal of eucalyptus trees that are extensively grown in Pudukottai, Thirumayam and Alangudi areas. A cashew processing unit was sought for the district for making value added products out of cashew which is harvested across the district. Since there is good cultivation of flowers in Alangudi and Pudukottai, demand for a scent factory was also made. Demand for an arts and science college in Keeranur and Alangudi was made besides waiver of cooperative loans taken by farmers in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-for-extending-river-linking-to-pudukottai/articleshow/79598808.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Goa||Sanitation fees in Margao questioned||Margao: The Shadow Council for Margao has called into question the purpose of levying sanitation fees for households by the outgoing Margao Municipal Council (MMC) when it miserably failed in managing the garbage scenario during its five-year term. “Inspite of crores of rupees fleeced from the public as sanitation fees, Margao continues to reel under the garbage menace,” Savio Coutinho of the Shadow Counciil said in a press release. Pointing out that it’s now over a year since segregated waste collection system has been introduced by MMC, Coutinho said, “neither a single kg of compost has been derived from the wet waste, nor the baling of the dry waste is effectively done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sanitation-fees-in-margao-questioned/articleshow/79598835.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Electricity tariffs will not be hiked, assures Andhra Pradesh energy minister||VISAKHAPATNAM: Energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy said for the second consecutive year, the government will not increase electricity tariffs in the state. The energy minister launched the new logo of AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) on Sunday. Speaking on this occasion, Srinivasa Reddy said discoms in the state have recently filed their Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) before the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC). “Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is strongly committed to not financially burden the people of the state. The chief minister also asked power utilities to strive to increase public participation in this sector. The government is taking all possible steps to improve the financial and operational performance of power utilities. As part of this, the government has released Rs 17,904 crore in 2019-20 and till date in this fiscal towards clearing pending subsidy arrears of the discoms as on March 31, 2019,” said Reddy. The energy minister added that the government allocated Rs 8,353 crore for the free power scheme, Rs 717 crore towards subsidised power to aqua farmers and Rs 1,707 crore towards domestic subsidy. “The government has directed power utilities to focus on modernising electricity power systems, which is essential to provide the best services as well as cost-effective and reliable power,” said Reddy. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said power utilities are exploring ways to improve existing systems. “We have to focus on the needs of consumers and deliver superior services. The government has asked power utilities to be more consumer-centric. We are striving to reach the expectation of consumers and government in a more effective way,” Srikant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/electricity-tariffs-will-not-be-hiked-assures-energy-minister/articleshow/79596393.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||With winter, sanctuaries & wetlands in UP echo with chirps||LUCKNOW: Wetlands and bird sanctuaries in the state are echoing with chirps and tweets with the arrival of winged winter visitors. By now, birds like painted stork, common coot, red-crested pochard, cormorants, northern shoveller, northern pintail, grey heron, purple heron, purple moorhen, mallard and other easily spotted winter birds can be seen flocking one or the other wetland. Additional principal chief conservator of forests, Agra, K Pravin Rao said, “With days getting colder, birds will continue to come.” Most of UP’s wetlands attract winter and migratory birds in huge numbers. A satisfactory monsoon this year has left wetlands in good condition. Some rare birds like great bittern, Amur falcon and Eurasian wryneck have also started coming to UP over the past few years. While this may excite bird watchers and enthusiasts, reaching wildlife and bird sanctuaries is not always easy because of their remote location. Rao, who has photographed many rare birds across the state and had also started a bird walk in Lucknow, now plans to make a video of each of the 26 wildlife and bird sanctuaries that the state has. “Besides giving brief introduction of the sanctuary, I have also provided information on how to reach the place and what to look forward to,” said the official, who has captured on video Agra’s Sur Sarovar Sanctuary and National Chambal Sanctuary. “This is my individual effort to make it easy for those interested in these places. Anyone can watch these videos on my YouTube channel,” he said. The fact that eight of the state’s wetlands have already been declared Ramsar sites may also bring in more nature travellers to these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-winter-sanctuaries-wetlands-echo-with-chirps/articleshow/79598812.cms||Neha Shukla
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Fields submerged by barrage water, Sironcha farmers plan fresh protest||Nagpur: Fresh trouble is brewing for authorities as farmers from Sironcha taluka in Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district are gearing up to launch agitation against the inter-state Medigadda Kaleshwar barrage project between Maharashtra and Telangana. The backwater has submerged their crops and farmlands as the Telangana authorities have not reduced storage by opening the gates. Villagers are also stating that the barrage has affected their socio-cultural life too as they had to stop rituals in Godavari river, which they had been performing since several generations, due to the construction of the barrage. Farmer Madhusudan Arveli, also leader of the Medigadda-Kaleshwar Barrage Sangharsh Committee, said the project is not benefiting Maharashtra. “A bulk of the population from Sironcha has lost access to Godavari river which is their lifeline. Forget irrigation or drinking water, farmers are losing crops as the backwaters are flooding their fields,” he said. The barrage was nearly filled in the month of February this year and backwater flooded farms in several villages including Arda, Nagaram, Mrudu Kistapur, Rajannapalli, Janapalli, Maddikunta and adjoining villages. By the time Telangana authorities reduced the storage, the damage had already been done. “The farmers are now contemplating to revive the protest as the project is affecting their livelihood,” said Arvelli. Collector Deepak Singla said compensation would be given to the affected farmers. The barrage was inaugurated in the presence of chief ministers of Telangana and Maharashtra. The project has led to repeated protests by affected farmers of the taluka in the past. The Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government had given approval for the project in 2016. The Mahavikas Aghadi (MVA) government in June instituted a committed to inquire into allegations of irregularities in the project. Apart from other allegations of breach of contract by the Telangana government, a committee headed by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar was also supposed to probe into the objection raised by the forest department regarding threats caused by the project to its land. The erstwhile district collector had reportedly not taken cognisance of the objection. Tehsildar Ramesh Jaswant of Sironcha said Rs17 lakh would be distributed among affected farmers. “Villagers also want access to the bridge on the barrage for travelling to Telangana. The bridge is meant for carrying out maintenance work on the barrage and not for public transport. Permitting vehicles may damage the bridge. Only pedestrians can be allowed. The bridge cannot be kept open as it may pose a security threat in the sensitive region,” said the tehsildar. NCP MLA Dharmaraobaba Atram has threatened to launch an agitation if the stored water is not released by opening the gates of the barrage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fields-submerged-by-barrage-water-sironcha-farmers-plan-fresh-protest/articleshow/79597469.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Cooum encroachers at Padikkuppam shifted, bldgs razed||CHENNAI: In a joint effort, officials of the Chennai River Restoration Trust, Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board and Greater Chennai Corporation have successfully rehabilitated squatters from Cooum river bank at Rail Nagar in Padikkuppam near Ambattur after razing their illegal buildings. A senior Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT) official said the decision of TNSCB to allocate tenements in Athippattu near Ambattur had helped in quick evacuation of squatters from the river bank. The work began on November 18 and was completed on November 24. After 221 families were found encroaching upon the river bank in Padikkuppam, the corporation allocated tenements in Perumbakkam on OMR to the first batch. As some were not keen to move there, about 100 families were moved to tenements at Navalur near Padappai. The remaining families wanted to move to a nearby TNSCB colony of tenements. With a representation received from the residents, the TNSCB authorities agreed to allocate tenements in Athippattu, about 4km from Padikuppam. All the 121 families have now got the allocation letters. A senior TNSCB official said construction of the tenements at the Athippattu site was in full swing and is expected to be ready in about two months. Each tenement, measuring about 500sqft, is being built at Rs 13.5 lakh. Till the tenements are completed, all the allottees have agreed to stay on rented premises. When the eviction and rehabilitation of encroachers from rivers in the city began, the TNSCB constructed tenements at a cost of Rs 6.5 lakh each. “Now the cost has doubled in the last five years,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cooum-encroachers-at-padikkuppam-shifted-bldgs-razed/articleshow/79597465.cms||P Oppili
December 7, 2020||India||As weight gain becomes an epidemic, surgery finds growing acceptance||MUMBAI: In February 2021, Rupali Kadam, a policewoman from Mumbai, will observe a happy anniversary of the day she underwent bariatric or weight-loss surgery. “My life is fantastic compared to what it was two years back,” she said in between one of her hectic 10- to 12-hour shifts that most police personnel have had to do during the Covid-19 pandemic. Rupali, who weighs 79 kg today, was often called names when she stood for traffic duty with her 132-kg frame. She then opted for non-traffic duty but she recalls she would often hear taunts about her weight, especially in elevators. “Now, people walk up to me to compliment me about how good and healthy I look,” said the 32-year-old policewoman, adding that she hopes to lose even more weight. Obesity, recognised as a worldwide epidemic, has emerged as one of the worst risk factors for Covid-19 in recent months. A person is said to be overweight to obese if his/her body mass index (ratio of weight versus height) is 25 or greater. The World Health Organisation says that over 1.9 billion adults were overweight in 2016. In India, a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in 2015 found that the prevalence rate of obesity varied from 11.8% to 31.3%. In urban areas, it said more than 30% of the population was obese or overweight, women more than men. Like with any disease, obesity treatment has been a subject of intense research. Surgery has emerged as the way forward for many morbidly obese people, resulting not only in weight loss but also in getting rid of a host of chronic diseases ranging from hypertension, dislipedmia and, many cases, even diabetes. “But the type of bariatric surgery and patient selection has to be done with care,” said endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi. Obesity pills have been around for decades, but most fail due to side-effects; the only one currently approved for use (Orlistat) is a prescription-only pill in India. “Meal replacement substitutes, eating less, exercise and behaviour change help obese patients,” said Dr Joshi. A patient, who did not want to be named, said weight gain after reaching 120 kg is quick. “You can manage to do things on your own when you are 100 or 120, but thereafter you need help to even get up from a sofa,” the patient said. Fifty-year-old Sheela Natrajan, a law lecturer from Mumbai’s western suburbs, decided to undergo bariatric surgery (in two phases, two years apart) when her weight suddenly shot up to 195 kg. “People are wary of surgery because they fear something could go wrong sometime in the future, but I tell them that it is important to minimise your pain right now,” said Natrajan. The world’s first bariatric surgery was done in 1954, but it is only now that long-term studies on its effects, especially on quality of life, are trickling in. A study published in 2016 in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition found a significant increase in quality of life both in the short- and long-term after bariatric surgery. Surgeon Dr Muffazal Lakdawala, who operated on both Rupali and Sheela, said that bariatric surgery gives patients an opportunity to gain back all the simple joys of life they had to miss out on due to obesity. “There are women who suffered infertility for years, but could get pregnant and have babies after bariatric surgery. I once operated on a mechanic who couldn't get under the cars because he was obese. Surgery gives people a second chance,” he said. Natrajan, who now weighs between 77 kg and 80 kg, has turned her life around in the decade since she underwent her first weight-loss surgery. “Previously, I would be happy to just complete my lectures, but I now multi-task,” she said. Apart from lectures, she also takes long walks and Zumba classes. “I have had no maids to help out during the Covid lockdown and manage all the housework on my own,” she said. Two years back, she went to the United Kingdom to do her second master’s degree in law and plans to do a doctorate soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-weight-gain-becomes-an-epidemic-surgery-finds-growing-acceptance/articleshow/79599514.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Pune||One arrested for trying to sell tiger skin in Pune||PUNE: The Swargate police on Saturday arrested Shakiljaan Mohammed Shaikh, a resident of Upper Indiranagar, following the recovery of tiger skin from his possession last Tuesday near Sarasbaug. “Forest authorities and officials from other state agencies verified the seized material and confirmed it to be tiger hide in a report to the police,” senior inspector Bramhanand Naikwadi of the Swargate police told TOI. Police said on receipt of the report, a case was registered on Saturday. Investigations so far have revealed that a Nashik-based man had given the tiger hide to Shaikh for selling it in the city. Police are ascertaining the source from whom Shaikh bought the hide, when the tiger was killed and by whom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-tiger-skin/articleshow/79597481.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai boy dies after father hits him with cellphone charger||CHENNAI: A 11-year-old boy from Gummidipoondi died on Saturday of injuries he suffered earlier this week when he was hit by his father. Police on Sunday arrested Muthu, 42, on charges of murdering his son Karthik. Police said Karthik, a Class V student who lived with his father and mother Neela, 38, at Chinna Sozhiyambakkam in Gummidipoondi, was mischievous. Muthu often reprimanded him, while Neela tried to reason that Karthik would behave better as he got older. Neighbours often complained to Muthu that Karthik picked up fights with their children. Muthu was upset over such repeated instances. On Thursday, when Neela left the house to go to a shop, Muthu started beating Karthik with his bare hands. He later used a cellphone charger to beat him but the device hit his neck hard and Karthik cried out in pain. He was rushed to a government hospital in Kottakarai on December 3, where he died on Saturday. Police grew suspicious after Muthu told them that Karthik sustained injuries from a fall but an autopsy showed otherwise. After further inquiry, Muthu confessed to have beaten Karthik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/boy-dies-after-father-hits-him-with-cellphone-charger/articleshow/79597506.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||BR Ambedkar took on social evils, legacy lives on: UP CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that Dr BR Ambedkar understood the conspiracies of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, who had offered him the post of the Prime Minister of Pakistan if he accepted the Partition. Addressing a function organised by Ambedkar Mahasabhha on the 64th death anniversary of Ambedkar, Yogi said the father of the Indian Constitution declined Jinnah’s offer saying that ‘Bharat’ was his ‘matra-bhoomi’ (motherland) and he would never be a ‘gaddar’ (traitor). The CM said respecting the Constitution was like paying respect to Ambedkar who fought social evils for the rights of the oppressed class. “Every person assuming high office in the executive takes oath of the Indian Constitution before taking charge. Every district, village and ward has the presence of Ambedkar,” he said, adding that paying homage to Ambedkar was like giving respect to Dalits and socially-deprived sections. Ambedkar Mahasabha had not organised any function on the birth anniversary of Ambedkar on April 14 due to coronavirus pandemic. “Ambedkar has left behind a legacy that continues to aspire millions of people. It is because of the humanitarian path shown by him that people still repose their faith in him,” he added. Yogi said while Ambedkar got the respect he deserved, his contemporary and another Dalit rights activist Jogendra Nath Mandal was deprived of due honour. “It was Mandal who left his seat for Ambedkar after Congress tried to stop the Dalit icon from entering the national assembly by getting him defeated in general elections,” he said. Yogi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has turned various places associated with Ambedkar into memorials. “Every scheme rolled out by the PM has its foundation in the welfare of deprived sections and Dalits. This is driven by Ambedkar’s inspiration,” Yogi said, questioning Congress as to why its leadership could not give due respect to Ambedkar over the years. He said Dalits were considered only a vote bank and no welfare measures were taken by the opposition parties when they were in power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ambedkar-took-on-social-evils-legacy-lives-on-yogi/articleshow/79598830.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Pune||Vetal Tekdi stir gets more public support||PUNE: Over 3,400 people, mostly residents and environment-friendly citizens, carried out a signature campaign over the weekend to support the ‘Save Vetal Tekdi’ agitation. Many citizens and morning walkers visiting the hill signed the banners placed to raise awareness about issue, supporting the protest against the building of a road on the hill by Maharashtra Institute of Technology on the Paud Road side. The signature campaign that started on Saturday morning ended on Sunday evening. “We want to create awareness about this issue among the local residents, and also in the rest of the city. People across all strata of society participated,” a signatory said. Another resident, who was a participant in this campaign, said concerns about greenery and flora and fauna of the areas were explained to the people. “Not only environmentalists, but also common people, who have an affection for the hills, have supported the campaign. They include young people and senior citizens. The agitation will continue,” he said. The agitators have said that any construction activity on this hill will cause tremendous ecological damage to one of the few remaining natural green spaces in the heart of the city. It will bring huge traffic to the top of the hill which is an ecologically sensitive reserved forest and eventually, lead to encroachments, they said. The natural run-off will be disturbed and can cause a catastrophe, they added. The signature campaign, addressed to the municipal commissioner, said, “We would like to submit that survey 123 is part of the hilltop/ hillslope zone. Hence, as per Development Control Rules, 2017, all construction activity is banned here.” The petition added ,“Hill environment and biodiversity is one of the 10 attributes in your strategic environment assessment report during the revision of the Development Plan for 2007-27. The report calls for restoring the ecology and enriching the green cover on these hills, regeneration, forestation for biodiversity, and says protection of these hills is necessary. We thus look to you to withhold permission for any construction activity on this ecologically sensitive land.” When contacted, Dattatray Takale, a PMC official from the building permissions department, said the civic administration has started to dismantle the road last week. “But, no further action was taken on Sunday. Futher action will follow after a meeting at the PMC on Monday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vetal-tekdi-stir-gets-more-public-support/articleshow/79597512.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai farmers seek early reopening of DPCs||Trichy: While the direct procurement centres (DPC) in Pudukottai district were closed on November 30 after the end of the short-term kuruvai season, farmers in some parts of the district seek early reopening of the DPCs citing possible loss of samba crop due to inundation in the fields. The DPCs are usually reopened in January to procure samba rice, which the farmers start harvesting from December end. There are 53 DPCs in the district, which procured 35,500 tonne of kuruvai rice from farmers before closing. This is 50% higher than the estimated procurement of 21,500 tonne this year. While farmers were getting ready for the samba harvest by the end of December, rain has inundated paddy fields in some parts of the district. Farmers in Karambakudi, who had opted for short-duration samba crop, seek reopening of the DPCs ahead of the schedule. Farmers said that it will be a loss for them if they sold their produce to private players who will buy it at half price if the PDCs were not reopened. S Ramasamy, 33, a farmer from Karambakudi said that crops that are on the verge of harvest are submerged in water. We are forced to harvest them, and we cannot take them to the direct procurement centres as they remain closed since November 30. “We cannot store them as we don’t have storage facility. If the DPCs were not opened, we will have no option but to sell them to the private rice mills who are asking our paddy for Rs 300-Rs 400 per bag. But we are assured of Rs 780 per bag by the DPCs,” said farmers in T Pudupatty. “While kuruvai season is over, we are looking ahead for Samba crops, and the DPCs will be opened by early January. We are in the process of finishing year-end accounts work,” said officials from Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC). Joint director of agriculture, Pudukottai, Periyasamy said a team of officials from TNCSC had visited villages where the farmers had demanded reopening of DPCs and a suitable decision would be taken on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-farmers-seek-early-reopening-of-dpcs/articleshow/79598824.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Inquiry order into alleged thrashing by SI||Tirupati: Tirupati Urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy ordered an inquiry after a woman alleged she was thrashed by MR Palli police sub-inspector when she visited the police station to register a complaint. The victim who identified herself as Vanitha Rani told reporters a group of men assaulted her in connection with a dispute over a site and she sought police help by dialling 100. “When I dialled 100 the control room staff rushed to the location. Seeing the police, the persons who attacked us fled away. Later, my sister and I went to MR Palli police station to register a complaint against those who assaulted us on Saturday evening. We accidentally stepped into the police station while it was being cleaned and the floor was wet and the SI Prakash Kumar, present there, vented his anger at me and thrashed me for messing up the floor,” alleged the victim. The victim alleged that she then went to the Disha police station to register a complaint against MR Palli SI but nobody responded. Tirupati SP assured Vanitha Rani that disciplinary action would be initiated against the SI if he was found guilty. — Sandeep Raghavan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/inquiry-order-into-alleged-thrashing-by-si/articleshow/79596400.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Boy blown to pieces after bomb explodes in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: A 11-year old shepherd was blown to pieces while tampering with a blind tank bomb, which he had stolen from Pokhran field firing range. A 12-year-old shepherd was seriously injured who has been referred to Jodhpur. The incident took place in Lathi police station area of Jaisalmer on Sunday. Police and Army officers reached the spot and started the investigation. According to the villagers, Shrawan Singh (11) and Mahipal Singh (12), residents of Bhadaria village, had gone to graze their goats near Pokhran field firing range. After some time, they entered into the range where they saw a bomb-like item and carried it with them. They tried to open it near Swangia Mata Temple, around 1km from their village. The bomb exploded in which Shrawan was killed on the spot while Mahipal was seriously injured. Hearing the blast, other shepherds reached the spot and informed the villagers at Bhadaria. Bhadaria sarpanch Prem Singh Bhati and few villagers reached the spot and immediately sent Mahipal to hospital for treatment. On getting information, Lathi SHO Achalaram Dhaka reached the spot with his force and took possession of the body. Later, after legal action, the body was handed over to the family members. Army officers reached the spot and took the bomb shell in their possession. SHO Dhaka informed that an unexploded bomb of Army was lying at Pokhran field firing range and these boys took it along. While trying to remove scrap, the bomb exploded in which a boy died. Some pellets of stick and other Army items were recovered and we have instructed the scrap collector contractor that no one should go in the area. According to Army sources, recently expired ammunition were destroyed at Pokhran field firing range and possibly some units remained unexploded which these boys took with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-blown-to-pieces-after-bomb-explodes-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79597521.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||DCP reaches out to people to redress their complaints||Nagpur: Zonal DCP Lohit Matani is taking policing to internal localities and slums in central Nagpur and addressing their grievances. Matani had so far addressed three ‘slum meetings’ for addressing complaints and also gathering information regarding criminal activities. His latest meeting was at the Mudaliar chowk at Shanti Nagar where he heard the residents voicing out their own grievances and also about the locality. Matani attended around 40 complainants during the meeting. In the past, he had addressed similar meeting at Gujjarwadi slum in Ganeshpeth where he also visited people in their homes during his patrolling in the lanes to know their complaints. The officer, also author of three books meant for civil service aspirants, had also convened a meeting in Naik talao slums under Pachpaoli police station. Matani said the objective behind meetings is to establish transparency in the system of lodging of complaints and their reddressal apart from collecting information about the crime-prone localities. “My experience of such public meetings at police station was not motivating as there were instances of pressure groups dominating them with their versions of police working,” he said. “I wanted a candid opinion about the police machinery from the public at their own localities and address any problem they may have,” said the IPS officer. “During the meeting at Mudaliar chowk, two such complaints had surfaced that I would not have come across otherwise. A woman wanted justice as her family member had committed suicide at Wathoda but suicide note was found at Shanti Nagar and she was stuck in jurisdictional wrangles,” he said. “Another man wanted the accusation of his possessing of narcotics verified that I had agreed with an objective inquiry without supporting any side,” said Matani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcp-reaches-out-to-people-to-redress-their-complaints/articleshow/79597505.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||A lonely battle against the failing system||CHENNAI: It has been a year since R Kaveri got electrocuted when she came in contact with a live wire near at Bhavani Nagar near Red Hills. Ever since the tragedy, her husband, K Rajavelu, is the first to attend to electricity related complaints in his neighbourhood. “Considering my mental well-being after my wife’s death, residents in the area made me stand in the local body elections and I am now an elected ward member,” Rajavelu said. More than 500 families live in Bhavani Nagar, which comes under Padiyanallur Panchayat, a few kilometers from Chennai. Rajavelu said Tangedco offered him Rs 5 lakh compensation, but he refused. “Is that the value of my wife’s life? Even police attempted to convince me, but I did not budge,” Rajavelu said. Rajavelu has moved the Madras high court seeking enhanced compensation for the death of his wife and injuries caused to his elder son, now 10. “Even now, he has a limp,” Rajavelu said. In Padiyanallur, residents continue to live with a ticking time bomb, with electric wires hanging like clotheslines outside houses on some streets. After Kaveri’s death, a few damaged electric poles were replaced, but a lot remains to be done, say residents. Compensation in electrocution accidents takes several years, say lawyers. Recently, Madurai bench of the Madras high court intervened in an electrocution incident and directed Tangedco to give enhanced compensation within a month of the accident, but those are only exceptions and not the norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-lonely-battle-against-the-failing-system/articleshow/79597464.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Organic onions grown by inmates of Trichy prison put up for sale||TRICHY: Inmates at the Trichy Central prison have started sale of organically cultivated small onions, through the prison bazaar. The price has been fixed at Rs 80 per kg for small onions. The inmates harvested around 300kg of small onions on Saturday and started sale from Sunday. During the inauguration of sales, DIG of prisons (Trichy range) Kanagaraj, prison superintendent K Shankar and prison bazaar superintendent A Thirumurugan were present. “We have been cultivating small onions for the last three years. We have the highest yield this year. 12 inmates were involved in the cultivation. They worked hard and harvested the yield from 30 cents,” Thirumurugan told TOI. They have cultivated the crop using green manure and vermicompost without using any chemical fertilizer or pesticide, he added. “Our prime aim is cultivating 100% organic onion. We use 20% of pesticides for other vegetables. However, for onion, we have never used any chemical fertilizer or pesticides and cultivated onion for only one season per year. We are thinking to take up the cultivation for all seasons,” he said. The prison inmates are also cultivating vegetables, banana and edible sugarcane within the premises for years now. They are also running a restaurant, selling cakes and sweets under Freedom Prison Bazaar and have gradually extended their business by selling cloth bags to replace non-biodegradable plastic bags, deodorant bags to have fresh air in rooms and halls and bathing soaps. The prison bazaar is located in front of the prison on Trichy-Pudukottai main road in the city. A tailoring unit also functions from inside the prison where trained inmates work. The initiative was taken by the prison authorities with a view to rehabilitate prisoners serving lengthy terms and selling various items prepared by them at a fair price to the general public. Revenue realized from selling these items will be distributed to the family members of the inmates, and families affected by the inmates, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/organic-onions-grown-by-inmates-of-trichy-prison-put-up-for-sale/articleshow/79598818.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Congress and BJP move candidates to resorts||Jaisalmer: After the completion of the fourth phase of panchayat elections in Jaisalmer and Barmer, the BJP and Congress have moved their candidates to various resorts in Sam as both the parties are worried about horse trading. According to sources, the winnable candidates are being sent to safe places. Earlier, the leaders of the respective parties called the candidates and held meetings. They will return on Tuesday. There are 21 panchayat samitis in Barmer of which election was held in 15 samitis on Thursday and on remaining six samitis on Sunday. In Jaisalmer, of the seven panchayat samitis, elections were held in six till third phase and on Sunday, election was held in remaining panchayat samitis in Sam area. In Jaisalmer, Congress was divided into two groups under MLA Ruparam and minister Saleh Mohammad’s father Gazi Fakir. Fakir’s son Amardeen and many other members of his family had contested as independent candidates. Ruparam’s daughter Anjana and son Harish contested on Congress ticket. “We have sent our candidates for poltical training regarding elections,” said Ruparam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-and-bjp-move-candidates-to-resorts/articleshow/79597541.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP releases Rs 103 crore for rural livelihood mission||LUCKNOW: The state government has released budgetary grant of over Rs 103 crore to the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM), which has attained the goal of job generation during pandemic. The amount is for the employment of Dalits who migrated on a large scale at the peak of the coronavirus crisis. Funds released by the state government match the grant vis-à-vis the Centre which has already released over Rs 155 crore for execution of the scheme. The Centre and state contribute in the ratio of 60:40 for implementation of the scheme. Additional chief secretary (rural development) Manoj Singh in a communique sent to rural development commissioner K Ravindra Naik on November 27 said that a budgetary sanction of over Rs 516 crore has been done for implementation of the scheme in 2020-21. The Centre had released its share in April even as the pandemic had brought economic activities to a standstill. Singh said in the order that the rural development commissioner (RDC) and mission director of State Rural Livelihood Mission Sujit Kumar would be permitting the expenditure of the funds during execution of the scheme. The department will have to follow rules mentioned in the financial handbook of the state government which insist that the spending may be done only after due approval of a competent authority. Funds released by the state government would not be acquired in one go but in stages as per implementation stages. The RDC and mission director of SRLM will ensure the scheme execution agency does not have more funds than required for two months. On completion of the target, the RDC and mission director will ensure attestation of the work done under SRLM through usage of said funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-releases-rs-103cr-for-rural-livelihood-mission/articleshow/79598840.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 7, 2020||Pune||Motorcyclist booked on charge of stalking in Pune||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Saturday filed a case of stalking against an unidentified motorcyclist, who allegedly chased a scooter rider and made obscene gestures at her after attempting to grab her hand on the stretch between Bund Garden and Vadgaon Sheri on the evening of December 2. Police inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police said, “The 36-year-old lawyer was heading to her residence on the evening of December 2 when the incident occurred.” “The woman was heading to Vadgaonsheri from Bund Garden when a motorcycle rider started following her. On their way to Vadgaonsheri from Kalyaninagar, the man attempted to grab her hand despite the fact that both the vehicles were in motion,” Waghmare said. At a junction in Vadgaonsheri, the motorcycle rider overtook her scooter and halted in front of her. The man then made obscene gestures at her and sped away, police said. “The woman noted down the motorcycle number and a team is trying to locate the motorcycle rider. At the same time, police are studying the footage of various CCTV cameras to identify the motorcycle rider and ascertain how the incident took place,” he said. Police have invoked sections 354 (D) (stalking) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the motorcyclist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-booked-on-charge-of-stalking/articleshow/79597529.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Family protests after youth found hanging in Pokhran||JAISALMER: A youth was found hanging in a hut near a tube well at Chayan village in Pokhran area of Jaisalmer. Family members created ruckus at the government hospital in Pokhran over the suspicious death on Sunday. Later, family members were persuaded and a case was lodged against the tube well owner Om Prakash, his wife and son under Section 302 and SC/ST Act. The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem. Similarly, in another case in Sam area of Jaisalmer, a 13-year-old boy was found hanging in suspicious condition in a hotel room. Police have begun an investigation. According to Pokhran police, they got information on Saturday evening that a youth was hanging in a hut near a tube well in Chayan village. Ramdeora police reached the spot. The tube well belongs to Mathania resident Om Prakash. The deceased was identified as Ashok (20), a resident of Manchitiya in Jodhpur district. Police informed Ashok's family members in the evening. Later, the body was sent to the mortuary. Family members reached the hospital on Sunday morning and started protesting demanding arrest of the culprit alleging murder. They refused to take the body. The protest continued for three hours. SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi with force reached the hospital and tried to persuade the family members. Later, they agreed to take the body. Police got the postmortem done through the medical board. Babu Ram, father of the deceased, lodged a case saying that his son Ashok was working at Prakash's tube well at Chayan for last two years as a farmer. On Friday night, Ashok had had some argument with Om Prakash's wife and son and they thrashed him. Om Prakash's wife Sushila and son Surendra murdered Ashok and hanged him to make it look like suicide, the family members alleged. Police have lodged a murder case and started investigation. In another incident at Sam, Anil Kumar Bhil (13) was missing from his home since last two days and his body was found hanging in a hotel at Sam. Police are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/family-protests-after-youth-found-hanging-in-pokhran/articleshow/79597538.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||MP seeks upgrade of Rajahmundry airport||Rajahmundry: Rajahmundry MP and YSRC chief whip in the Lok Sabha Margani Bharat has submitted a detailed report on the expansion of the airport in the city to handle more air traffic. He has also sought more regional connectivity. Bharat met Union civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola in New Delhi and urged him to upgrade Rajahmundry airport, which is a key airport for the twin Godavari districts. Rajahmundry airport caters to 70 lakh people of East and West Godavari. The existing terminal handles peak hour capacity of 225 passengers. A new terminal with 1,400 passengers was proposed. The MP also sought direct connectivity between Rajahmundry and New Delhi. He said a preliminary estimate for construction of a new domestic departure terminal building and conversion of existing domestic terminal into arrival terminal at a cost of Rs 133.53 crore has been prepared. The estimates include civil works, escalators, elevators and car parking facility, he said. The MP said work is proposed to be executed through PMC (project management-contract/consultancy) or EPC (engineering-procurement-construction).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mp-seeks-upgrade-of-rajahmundry-airport/articleshow/79596404.cms||Samson Raj
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai colleges ready to reopen for UG final year students from today||CHENNAI: City colleges are preparing to welcome at least some final students of graduate courses from Monday and have got ready facilities for handwashing and social distancing. They don’t expect more than half the students to turn up and some colleges have put off on-campus classes to the next semester as not many days remain for the Christmas holidays and they have also scheduled online exams. Colleges reopened last week for post-graduate science and technology students and research scholars, but their numbers are small compared to under-graduate students. D G Vaishnav College plans to split final year degree students into two batches to maintain social distancing. “We plan to recap the lessons of the online mode. Further, value education classes and orientation classes will be conducted,” said principal S Santhosh Baboo. The college will conduct the semester exams a week later. Principals also said quarantining students for 14 days in hostels is impractical. Guru Nanak College principal M G Ragunathan said they had cleaned all classrooms and spread out the seating. The college has hired additional security personnel to check the temperature of students and ensure social distancing. “We expect only around 50% of students to turn up on Monday. We will give study material to students, clear doubts and conduct orientation classes for final year UG students,” he said. Ethiraj College for Women has put up barricades right from the gates to guide students directly to their departments. “We have fumigated classrooms and staff rooms. We have arranged for two fever rooms where the doctor will be available from Monday morning,” said S Kothai, principal. The canteen will serve only packed food. The college will conduct practicals for science students and revise lessons for arts students. G Kirshnan, principal of Presidency College, said, “We are providing at least 10 taps in each block with running water and soap. Our old classrooms are very big and we can easily follow social distancing,” he said. The college will accommodate one student per room in Victoria Students Hostel in Chepauk. Many engineering colleges said they have given study holidays for the final year students ahead of the semester exams. These colleges may reopen at full swing only from next semester. Meanwhile, Anna University is preparing its hostels for UG students. “We are planning to conduct lab classes for seventh semester students (final year students) from Monday,” a university official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-colleges-ready-to-reopen-for-ug-final-yr-students-from-today/articleshow/79597690.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: London flight logs best Covid-time passenger load with 245 arrivals||KOLKATA: The direct Air India service between London and Kolkata has witnessed a spectacular turnaround since the beginning of this month with packed incoming flights from Heathrow and outgoing flights registering a significant rise in occupancy. According to AI officials, 16 of the 18 business class seats and 227 out of 238 economy class seats were occupied in the flight that landed at Kolkata airport at 7am on Sunday. There were two infants as well among the flyers. “This is the best passenger load so far. There has been a steady rise in the passenger count over the last few weeks since the introduction of Covid RT-PCR tests at the Kolkata airport. On Sunday, the flight from London arrived with an almost capacity crowd,” said Kaushik Bhattacharjee, the airport director. He added 54 out of the total 245 passengers on Sunday had come without a Covid report. They underwent RT-PCR test at the airport and 52 flyers tested negative. “A Covid test in the UK costs almost Rs 30,000 and it may take up to three days to get the report. I opted for the test on arrival and got it done at Rs 1,500 only. Also, the report came within a few hours,” recounted one of the 54 passengers. An airline official said flights from London scheduled throughout the month — December 12, 19 and 26 — were booked almost to capacity. Since the introduction of the flight from mid-September till the last week of October, it had been operating with extremely poor loads of 60-90 passengers, leading to the airline reducing the frequency from twice a week to once as it was financially unviable. Now, with the restrictions eased in December, the demand for seats on the direct flights to Kolkata from London has gone through the roof. “Nearly all the passengers are non-resident Indians. They usually travel once a year to Kolkata to meet their families, relatives and friends. The preferred time is winter, especially around the Christmas holidays. Confined to their homes in the UK for most of the year, they are now desperate to get out and are flying to India,” the official said. Though the load on the departing flight isn’t as impressive, it is still around 115-150. This load is expected to shoot up after Christmas and through January when the NRIs begin returning. “Nearly all the arriving passengers have return tickets. So the load on outgoing flights will also be significantly higher next month,” another airline official said. If the loads continue to be high consistently, AI officials said they would pitch for the restoration of the second flight on Thursdays and even draw up a case for a third flight on Tuesday. However, this could happen only around March when the airline top brass reassess the flights on its network. What may work out earlier is a direct flight between Singapore and Kolkata that has long been in the works, but could not materialise due to the difficulty in getting the RT-PCR test done in Singapore prior to boarding the flight to Kolkata. Airline officials said they would pitch for the test being done on arrival like the London flight. If that is granted, the flight could come up as early as next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/london-flight-logs-best-cov-time-passenger-load-with-245-arrivals/articleshow/79597535.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 7, 2020||Aurangabad||HC directs notices over plea for completion of state’s recruitment process||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court has issued notices to the state and the directorate of accounts and treasury in Mumbai over three writ petitions by candidates _ who made it to the provisional list in the recruitment for account/audit clerk posts _ seeking completion of the job process initiated in January 2019. In May this year, the state had issued a government resolution (GR) banning recruitment for 2020-21. “The GR clearly states that it is for all the fresh recruitments for 2020-21. However, these candidates were already through the recruitment process that was initiated in January 2019,” their lawyer Panditrao Anerao told TOI. The matter came up for hearing on December 4 before a division bench of Justice S V Gangapurwala and Justice Shrikant Kulkarni which directed the notices that are returnable by February 12, 2021 when the matter is expected to be heard next. The assistant director of accounts and treasury for Nashik region is another respondent in the matter. The candidates contended in their petitions that the state released an advertisement on January 8, 2019 for the recruitment of 500 account/audit clerk posts (193 in Konkan, 94 in Pune, 84 in Nashik, 96 in Aurangabad and 46 in Amravati regions. Several thousand candidates appeared for the examination held on April 5, 2019. Their names appeared in the third provisional/temporary selection list and they are since awaiting the recruitment process to get over. They pointed out that the posts were filled in all other regions barring Aurangabad and Nashik. Later, the GR came on May 4, 2020 and the authorities cited the same for not going ahead with the recruitment in Aurangabad and Nashik regions, they said. Ends | Akhef | Vk||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hc-directs-notices-over-plea-for-completion-of-states-recruitment-process/articleshow/79597537.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 7, 2020||Pune||Guard foils attempt to steal cash from ATM||PUNE: An alert security guard foiled an attempt to steal money from a cash dispensing machine. The guard works with a jewellery shop in Narayangaon while the ATM kiosk is located in the neighbourhood. After hearing some unusual noise from the ATM kiosk, the guard immediately alerted the Narayangaon police station. Before the police patrolling team could reach the spot after receiving the call, the suspects fled from the area but they left behind a gas cutter. There was Rs7.4 lakh cash loaded in the machine at the time. The police said that a private bank’s ATM kiosk is located along the Pune-Nashik highway at Narayangaon, about 85km from here. Around 2.15am on Sunday morning, three men reached the spot on two motorcycles. “The suspects had begun cutting the cash dispensing machine. Hearing the noise, the security guard of the neighbouring jewellery shop became suspicious and immediately alerted the police,” an officer from the Narayangaon police station said. The local police team immediately headed toward the kiosk.  Seeing a police team coming towards the kiosk, the suspects drove away leaving the gas cutter at the spot, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-foils-attempt-to-steal-cash-from-atm/articleshow/79597540.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||From ‘Agni’ to ‘Pyaar’: A tryst with naming cyclones||We’re not sure if the nation wants to know this, but for what it’s worth, here’s a weather forecast that sounds like fake news but isn’t. After Burevi and a few other cyclones, the disaster that may disturb the calm of the Indian Ocean region would be called Arnab. This has little to do with the news anchor caught in the eye of a storm though. The name comes from Bangladesh and is one of 169 names suggested this year by 13 countries--including Myanmar, Iran, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar and Saudi Arabia — for cyclones forming close to home. The new list of cyclone names was released by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) a few months after Fani, Vayu, BulBul and Hikka left scars in their wake and a few months before Amphan, Nisarga, Nivar and Burevi would rage and ravage their way through India’s coastal states this year. Even as cyclone Burevi (which means black mangroves in Dhivehi) holds Kerala and Kanyakumari to ransom seven days after cyclone Nivar (which means light in Persian) left heavy rains in its wake, their curious names have turned the spotlight back on the delightful history of the practice of naming hurricanes instead of merely identifying them by dates or intensity. While the country’s tryst with naming cyclones began in 2004 with Agni (fire) and later Pyaar (not what it sounds like, read on), the world began christening these natural disasters over a century ago, thanks to an eccentric Australian meteorologist named Clement Wragge. The Queensland weatherman would typically name gentle disturbances in the South Pacific after beautiful island women that he liked and more destructive ones after corrupt politicians that he disliked — a habit that made his private weather reports riotous reads: “... the sinister-looking disturbance named ‘Conroy’”, “... and now another antarctic disturbance named ‘Jenkins’.” In February 1898, the “dusky maiden” Elina hit Mackay on the Queensland coast and then swirled in Mahina and Nachon. While these island beauties became infamous, Wragge’s legacy paved the way for US weathermen in the 1930s to name natural calamities after their ex-wives and girlfriends. Soon after World War II though, came the bra-burning years when women’s groups started opposing this male juvenility. So, to level the playing ground for weather disasters, the US Meteorological Department decided in 1979 to give cyclones male and female names alternately. That’s how Bob came to follow Anna and David tailed Claudette that year. But this arrangement, too, would run into opposition from Asian countries such as China and Japan who frowned upon the monopoly of western names over typhoons. Which is why, just as in Hollywood movies and writing rooms, Asian representation began to increase in the Pacific since the noughties. In India, the naming system was not introduced for a long time because of — well — India. Given that we tend to name ourselves after gods, nobody wanted to attach religious names to destructive natural phenomena. But the World Meteorological Organisation suggested that the Indian Ocean Region too follow the convention for the sake of global uniformity and thus, followed a deluge of unoffensive names of non-human and inanimate objects chosen at the beginning of each year by each of the Indian Ocean countries in the Economic and Social Commission of the Asia Pacific — Bangladesh, Burma, Oman, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Thailand. That’s how, in the wake of US’s Katrina, came ‘Pyaar’— which swept up AP in 2005. Despite the aptness of its Hindi connotation, ‘Pyaar’ here did not mean love but ‘flattened’ given that it originated in Burma, not Bollywood. In 2018—a year before the Indian Seas witnessed eight cyclonic storms as against the standard of five — Iran, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Yemen were also added to the panel, bringing in the easterly winds of Persian names. The next few disturbances will be called Shaheen and Lulu, names proposed by Qatar and Pakistan. They are not the names of women because, according to IMD, the names should be gender, politics, religion and culture agnostic. Which explains why India’s contributions to the new list reads chiefly like an elements-of-nature reckoner: Gati, Tej, Aag, Vyom, Probaho, Neer, Probhanjan, Gumi, Ambud, Jaladhi, Vega. Besides sky and fire, some of these names stand for water bodies. Just like ‘Arnab’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-agni-to-pyaar-a-tryst-with-naming-cyclones/articleshow/79593015.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
December 7, 2020||Trichy||Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam members attempt rail roko||Trichy: Members of the Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam attempted to stage a rail roko at Trichy railway station on Sunday opposing chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami's move to recommend to the Centre to include seven scheduled caste sub-sects in the Devendrakula Vellalar community. Around hundred members of the association arrived at Trichy railway station on Sunday attempting to stage a rail roko. However, police personnel deployed at the station thwarted their attempts and arrested the protesters. The members raised slogans opposing the chief minister’s move before being arrested by police. Palaniswami had made the recommendation to the union government yielding to the long standing demand of a cross-section of community members and by the Puthiya Tamilagam party.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vellalar-munnetra-kazhagam-members-attempt-rail-roko/articleshow/79598834.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Greater Chennai Corporation sends drones to keep eye on canals||CHENNAI: Last week, when many localities in T Nagar and surrounding areas were water-logged, Greater Chennai Corporation officials were concerned about the flow of water from the Nandanam-T Nagar canal into Adyar river. With water from Chembarambakkam lake released, Adyar was in a spate and sending field staff to inspect the river banks was risky. Officials dispatched a drone that relayed high resolution video footage from the banks of the river and of points of the canal near Saidapet. In the footage, official located blocks in the canal and then proceeded to check upstream areas to find if drains on roads had been encroached. L Nandakumar, chief engineer (general) of the corporation, said they were using drones to resolve civic problems. For instance, water stagnation is often reported at Semmanchery and Perumbakkam where water from East Tambaram reaches Muttukadu via Pallikaranai marsh. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami told officials to resolve it. “We studied short cross culverts so that water can reach Buckingham canal by crossing Old Mahabalipuram Road to the canal. To study the route, topography and encroachments, drones were used and we were able to give the report in one day,” Nandakumar said. Mark Selvaraj, an urban design consultant with the corporation said drones make life easier for civic officials handling issues in a big city. “For instance, traffic police can send in drones if there is a 2km long pile-up and find the source. In case of water issues, the aerial view is something that an in-person inspection can never give. Feasibility reports can be made faster,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-sends-drones-to-keep-eye-on-canals/articleshow/79597476.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Ex-MP & Jintur college head, 2 others told to pay Rs 6 lakh fine for breach of tribunal’s order||AURANGABAD: The University and College Tribunal at Aurangabad has imposed total Rs6 lakh fine on two key office-bearers, besides, the principal of an educational institution at Jintur in Parbhani district for the breach of its August 4, 2017 direction to reinstate a chemistry lecturer within a month of its order. Justice Sunil Kotwal, the tribunal’s presiding officer, held on November 27 that the respondents _ Ganesh Dudhgaonkar, former MP of Parbhani who heads the Dnyanopasak Sikshan Mandal which runs the institution, his wife and Mandal secretary, Sandhya, and principal Suryakumar Sadawarte _ “have no regard to the order passed by this tribunal. As there is total denial by the respondents to obey the direction by this Tribynal, maximum fines deserve to be imposed on the respondents.” The tribunal said, “The respondents are convicted and for the first contravention i.e. not reinstating the lecturer within a month of the August 4, 2017 order, they are sentenced to pay a fine of Rs1 lakh. For the second contravention i.e. not implementing the order for another one month and continuing to do so till date, the respondents are sentenced to pay a fine Rs5 lakh within a period of three months from the date (Nov 27) of passing this order.” The tribunal further directed the three respondents to pay a fine of Rs500 per day from November 27, 2020 till the contravention continues, even after conviction. Incidentally, the tribunal’s latest order comes at a time when Dudhgaonkar’s writ petition against its August 4, 2017 order is pending before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court. The high court had not granted any relief to Dudhgaonkar against the impugned (under challenge) order. The respondents had contested the tribunal’s jurisdiction to entertain the lecturer’s contempt petition, but it clarified that the proceeding has been filed under section 85 (1) of the Universities Act which specifically provides action against the party which commits the breach of its order without any reasonable cause. When contacted, Dudhgaonkar told TOI, “We are seeking a legal opinion on the tribunal’s latest order and will legally contest it. The matter (earlier tribunal order) is already pending before the High Court.” (The Case) Ramkishan Adude had joined the Dnyanopasak Shikshan Mandal’s college at Jintur in Parbhani district as a chemistry lecturer on April 30, 2010. A year later, the college terminated his service without specifying any reason and he moved the University and College Tribunal against the same. On August 4, 2017, the tribunal allowed his petition and ordered the college to reinstate Adude within a month from the date of order. The college management preferred moving the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court against the tribunal’s order and the matter is since pending there. Adude too has filed a writ petition in the HC seeking back wages and the same too is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ex-mp-jintur-college-head-2-others-told-to-pay-rs6l-fine-for-breach-of-tribunals-order/articleshow/79597510.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||In a first, Vij holds waterbird census||Vijayawada: For the first time in Vijayawada, a group of nature lovers have launched a bird counting exercise in Krishna district. More than 20 people have teamed up for the task that will go on for the next two months. So far, more than 120 bird species have been spotted out of which six were spotted for the first time in the district. The Vijayawada winter waterbird census is aimed at exploring the wetlands around the city to record various birds that visit the area. As many as 20 wetlands known for migratory birds have been identified. While the programme was initiated by the Vijayawada Nature Club, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Tirupati, Duleep Mathai from Nature Conservation Trust, Bird Count India, Vijayawada divisional forest officer Selvam and Vijayawada Adventure Club are extending their support for the study. Speaking to TOI, Raja Sekhar Bandi, citizen science coordinator of IISER said they have recorded migratory birds from central Asia, Europe, Russia and the Himalayan foothills so far. Apart from recording bird species, the study is also aimed at collecting information on the status of wetlands. Raja Sekhar said given the current rate of urbanisation, data on wetlands and bird habitations will help the city administration and forest department preserve the biodiversity of the region and in planning future developmental projects. The programme will continue every weekend for another seven weeks, covering all wetlands twice. A detailed report will be submitted to the forest department in February 2021. Along with birds, nature lovers are also focussing on different species of dragonflies and butterflies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-a-first-vij-holds-waterbird-census/articleshow/79596413.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 7, 2020||Goa||Mhadei contempt plea, SLP hearing in SC on Jan 5||Keri: The contempt petition and the Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed by Goa in the Mhadei water diversion case has been scheduled for hearing before the Supreme Court on January 5, 2021. Earlier, the hearing in the contempt petition and the SLP were scheduled for December 7 this year. “As per the new schedule, the hearing that was fixed on December 7, has been postponed and scheduled on January 5. Presently our legal team and officials concerned in the WRD (Water Resource Department) are finalising modalities to protect the interests of the state in the Mhadei matter,” WRD chief engineer Shrikant Patil told TOI. Goa had filed the contempt petition in the apex court against Karnataka on August 8, 2018, even before the Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal had submitted its award in the water diversion issue to the Union government. Goa had to file the contempt petition after Karnataka began diverting water from the Mhadei basin water into the Malaprabha basin even while matter was before the tribunal. When the matter had come up for admission on December 25, 2019, Goa’s senior counsel Arvind Datar had requested the bench to hear the contempt petition along with the SLP. Datar submitted that Goa’s prayer to stop diversion of the Mhadei to the Malaprabha basin is also part of the SLP. Goa had filed the SLP before the Supreme Court on July 18, 2019, while Karnataka and Maharashtra too, had filed their own individual SLPs challenging the tribunal’s November 2018 award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mhadei-contempt-plea-slp-hearing-in-sc-on-jan-5/articleshow/79598849.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||45-year-old Army man posted in Kota hangs self in room||Kota: A 45-year-old Army man posted as Nayab Subedar in 18 IDSR unit at Kota allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room in the military area under Nayapura police station of Kota city on Saturday noon. The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained as no suicide note was recovered from his room. Police handed over the body to his family after postmortem on Sunday morning on their arrival in Kota from Bihar. According to Nayapura police, the deceased Puranchand was a resident of Muzaffarpur district in Bihar. The FIR in the matter stated that the deceased liquor addict and was in inebriated condition on Saturday noon when he allegedly committed suicide in his room, circle inspector Bhawani Singh said. Police lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC and initiated investigation into the matter, he added. The family members of the deceased reached Kota from Bihar on Sunday morning following which police handed over the body to them, the SHO said. The deceased was reportedly scheduled to leave for his native on Saturday evening and had purchased various items for the family from the markets in the city earlier in the day on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-year-old-army-man-posted-in-kota-hangs-self-in-room/articleshow/79597568.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Newly married man’s body found in well at Karauli dist||JAIPUR: A 25-year-old man in Karauli, who got married on November 25 and was reported missing two days later, was found dead in a well in his village on Sunday. His decomposed body was retrieved from the well and cops claimed that he committed suicide though they are yet to establish the reason for the same. The deceased was identified as Ashish Kumar of Dehmoli village in Karauli district. “On the night of November 26, Kumar told his new bride that he was going out to relieve himself, but he never returned. After searching the entire night and asking the relatives as well, when the family could not find him anywhere, they registered a missing person report at the local police station,” said Keladevi DSP Mahaveer Singh. Kumar got married in Hindaun’s Sanet village just a day prior to his disappearance. Locals found his body floating in the well and informed police. The FSL team also reached the spot and his body was pulled out which was in a decomposed state. Cops claimed that there were no visible injury marks on the body and the official said, “At present, it appears to be a case of suicide, though the autopsy will reveal more details. However, as the body appears to have been in the water for long, we do not know how much the post-mortem report will be able to tell us.” Sources claimed that the man was in a relationship prior to his wedding, though cops did not confirm it and claimed that the reason behind the man’s death is still a matter of investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/newly-married-mans-body-found-in-well-at-karauli-dist/articleshow/79597576.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Woman booked for abusing traffic police in Chennai||CHENNAI: A video of a woman, found to be drunk, abusing and assaulting a traffic policeman after her friend was caught for drunk driving in Thiruvanmiyur went viral on Sunday. Police later booked S Todla Seshu Prasad, a software engineer, and his friend Kamini, an assistant director in films, based on a complaint from a traffic police inspector. At 8.30pm on Saturday, a few police personnel led by inspector Mariappan were checking vehicles on South Avenue, Kamarajar Nagar,Thiruvanmiyur, when they stopped a Volkswagen with Prasad at the wheel and Kamini by his side. A breathalyser check found the 27-year-old software engineer and resident of Indira Nagar was drunk and police got ready to take the car to the police station, an officer said. A video taken by a policeman at the spot showed Kamini, 28, who also stays in Indira Nagar, then verbally abusing the inspector and even trying to punch him and Prasad pulling her away. Three video clips of her abusing police personnel soon went viral. Later, inspector Mariappan lodged a complaint at Thiruvanmiyur police station against the woman, saying she had also kicked him. The Thiruvanmiyur police registered a case under IPC Sections 294(b) (obscene language), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty). Watch On cam: Allegedly drunk Chennai woman abuses traffic cops, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-booked-for-abusing-traffic-police-video-viral/articleshow/79597503.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Aurangabad||Fisheries dept cancels contract at Yeldari dam||Aurangabad: Within a year of granting a five-year fishing contract at Yeldari dam to a society, the fisheries department has cancelled it citing violation of conditions. For the dam spread over 15,500 acres of land,the five-year contract from July 1, 2019, to June 30, 2024, was awarded to a Late Rajiv Gandhi Fishermen Traders’ Cooperative Society situated at Jintur of Parbhani district for an annual royalty of Rs 3.10 lakh. Against the granting of this contract, a local NGO named Lal Sena alleged serious loss of revenue to state exchequer as well as violation of the contract conditions and protested against the same. Taking cognizance of the same, fisheries department carried out an internal probe and found that the society had violated the contract condition by tying up with a fisheries company based in Mumbai. State fisheries commissioner Dr. Atul Patne said that the society has violated condition number 23 of GR issued by department of animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, on July 3, 2019. The condition in the GR states, ‘If the contractor has sub-contracted the lake/reservoir to someone else, the lake/reservoir contractor’s contract will cancelled prematurely and will be blacklisted for next six years. The rights to be added to the list will remain with the concerned lake’s contract committee.” NGO’s Ganpat Bhise told TOI, “The state is incurring serious losses to the policy of giving away fishing contracts at throwaway prices. As per an estimate, the contractor makes money running in to crores, whereas the state gets a meager of Rs 3.10 lakh per annum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/fisheries-dept-cancels-contract-at-yeldari-dam/articleshow/79597554.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Chitpore bounces back with rural Bengal jatra shows||KOLKATA: As many as 32 jatra artistes and technicians of Swarnomanjari Opera are finally breathing easy. Having performed for four nights across villages in Midnapore, Bankura and Purulia, these travelling troupe members, headquartered in Chitpore, are looking forward to the resurrection of the interest in the folk theatre form that has been the primary source of entertainment in rural Bengal. There is some light at the end of the tunnel for the 35-odd folk theatre troupe owners of Chitpore, who suffered a loss of approximately Rs 20 crore due to the pandemic. Manjil Banerjee, president of Songrami Jatra Prohori, was happy that police permissions were easily coming through now. “Each producer owns multiple troupes in Chitpore. Because of the pandemic, they have reduced the number of troupes performing in jatras this year. I have written five palas this year and am acting in Rupamanjari Opera’s ‘Protimar Chokhe Jol’ with Piya Sengupta. Our first show will be on January 16,” Banerjee said. The audience at a jatra show of 'Kolonkita Nayok'Subir Chatterjee, vice-president of Paschim Banga Jatra Sammelan and director of Swarnomanjari Opera, is hoping that business will be back in full swing in January. “Agragami Opera and Chaitya Opera have also started performing. In jatra, we follow the Bengali calendar. Some 10 groups are beginning rehearsals so that they can begin their performances by the Bengali month of Magh. In November, we had our first show on an open field in Midnapore’s Haripur. The stage measured 18ft by 20ft. Some 5,000-odd people thronged to watch our brand new pala titled ‘Kolonkito Nayok’ accompanied by live music.” Kumar Sanju, the lead actor of ‘Kolonkito Nayok’, can’t forget the euphoria of the 13,000 people who braved a freezing cold night in Balarampur to watch his pala. “We started at 9.30pm and the pala ended post midnight. I know people who rode bikes and drove over 40km to watch the jatra. My dialogues were greeted with resounding claps and whistles. We were shivering in the cold, but the audience wanted more. They even came up on stage and offered me money,” he said, adding that he even had to entertain requests of performing five extra songs once the pala was over. One among them had to be performed in the local Purulia dialect.  “We improvised and our musician had to play the tabla so that it sounded like the ‘maadol’. People were craving entertainment and it seemed they wanted to watch the jatra to get over the fear of the pandemic,” he said. Prashanta Saha, the director of Agragami Opera starring popular jatra artistes Anol and Kakoli, has done one show of their ‘Bisarjaner Pore’ on November 25. According to him, the response was just the way it was before the pandemic. “We had rented Regal Hall for our 35-member group and rehearsed for 25 days before staging this pala. The entire unit stayed there and rehearsed twice daily. There were some 4,000 people in Midnapore,” Saha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chitpore-bounces-back-with-rural-bengal-jatra-shows/articleshow/79597575.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 7, 2020||India||BJP wins 6 of 9 seats in UP’s MLC polls||LUCKNOW: Two stunning victories and a stinging setback summed up BJP’s performance in the MLC elections in Uttar Pradesh, in which the saffron party won six out of the nine graduate and teachers’ constituencies where it had fielded candidates, reports Pankaj Shah.  After a marathon 80 hours of vote counting, Avnish Kumar Singh of BJP on Sunday emerged victorious in the Lucknow graduate constituency by a margin of 6,403 votes against sitting MLC Kanti Singh, whose family had held the seat for 18 years. In Meerut, another graduate constituency dominated for 24 years by Hem Singh Pundhir of Madhyamik Siksha Sangh, BJP candidate Dinesh Goyal won by a huge margin of 28,769 votes. While BJP’s victories in Meerut and Lucknow ended the decades-old dominance of family satraps, there was heartburn and introspection as the party brass went into a huddle on Sunday over the loss of three-time sitting MLC Kedarnath Singh to Samajwadi Party debutant Ashutosh Sinha in PM Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency of Varanasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-wins-6-of-9-seats-in-ups-mlc-polls/articleshow/79599517.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cracker ban to cover New Year festivities, says PCB||KOLKATA: The state pollution control board had informed cops that the National Green Tribunal’s December 1 firecracker ban order till the pandemic is over will be effective in Kolkata, Howrah, Barrackpore, Haldia, Durgapur, Asansol and Raniganj. This order, the WBPCB says, will cover the year-end festivities in these places. Cops had sought the state Pollution Control Board’s advice whether the NGT firecrackers ban order will be applicable during the New Year celebrations. Track the pollution level in your cityThe pollution control board and the leading environment activists say the NGT order is very clear about the upcoming festive season. “The NGT order on December 1 clearly said that the fireworks ban will be effective till the end of the current pandemic. Thus, the ban on all fireworks will be effective this Christmas, year-end and New Year celebrations. We will be complying with the NGT order. The standard operating procedure (SOP) that we followed during Diwali will again be followed during the year-end and the New Year celebrations. We got tremendous support from the citizens restraining themselves from indulging in fireworks. We seek similar support from the citizens during the Christmas, year end and New Year celebrations. We will closely coordinate with the enforcement agencies so that no violation happens,” said WBPCB chairman, Kalyan Rudra. While the primary reason is to firm up the various legal implications amidst the pandemic, cops also want to raise awareness on the matter at least two weeks in advance — a policy that paid rich dividends during Diwali. “We have never planned such a campaign in the winter before,” said a police officer. While cops will be waiting for a detailed administrative directive on the physical distancing and other Covid protocols to host year-end parties, the joint initiative will help generate strong public opinion. “We will start meeting the club management, restaurant owners and other party organizers. We are likely to receive queries on this aspect. Additionally, we have to meet the firecracker traders once again. Deployment issues on the night of December 31 is another key area,” said a police officer. Environment activists said their vigil will remain the same like Diwali. “The way a mute and pollution-free Diwali was celebrated this year in Kolkata should be replicated in the city. There should not be any deviation,” said the environment activist, Subhas Datta. “We will keep tabs on the developments. We will generate alerts if any violation takes place. Cops did a commendable job during Diwali. We hope that the police will do everything to make people comply with the order,” said Naba Dutta, secretary of the Sabuj Mancha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pcb-cracker-ban-to-cover-ny-festivities/articleshow/79597652.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Gadvasu India’s top state veterinary university in 2019: ICAR||LUDHIANA: Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) has been ranked first among the veterinary universities of India and seventh among 67 universities in 2019, according to the ranking of agricultural universities and research institutes conducted by the education division of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi. The ICAR initiated ranking of universities and research institutions under its purview with a larger objective to improve the standard of animal sciences and agricultural education in tune with the global scenario. Ranking was based on several parameters, including student and faculty profile, student placements, research publications and citations, patents, technologies generated and transferred to farmers, resource generated and linkages. Dr Inderjeet Singh, vice-chancellor of Gadvadu said, “This time, they had a new score card system, which include the shifting of online details like international publications. We have improved from position eight to seven, but we have the potential to bag top three position and coming years we will try for that. We have scope in increasing number of faculty and patenting in research.” “Everything in veterinary sciences may not be patentable but we do have scope in diary sciences, fisheries and biotechnology. Lastly, our extension infrastructure is minimal as compared with other institutes and still we try to strengthen the extension services,” he adds He dedicated this achievement to every individual of the institute. He said, “Gavasu has grown rapidly and has made significant contributions in livestock research, teaching and extension. The university has strong international linkages with universities. The university has signed bilateral memoranda of understanding (MoU) with reputed national and international agencies to promote and strengthen research programme in veterinary, dairy and fisheries sector. The university is regularly providing training to scientists from various parts of the country under Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) in the field of veterinary surgery, veterinary gynaecology and in the discipline of veterinary pathology.” To meet the target of improving the income of farmers, the university is working for skill development and capacity building of farmers, youth and farm women for enhancing the productivity as well as demand driven value added livestock products (milk, meat and eggs). Different technologies being developed by the university are transferred in large extent to livestock farmers, industries and entrepreneurs and the state is developing as an important state of the country for livestock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gadvasu-indias-top-state-veterinary-university-in-2019icar/articleshow/79596420.cms||Mehak Jain
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhianvis take put protest in support of farmers||LUDHIANA: Members from various sections of society took out a protest rally in support of farmers at Sarabha Nagar area here on Sunday evening. The protesters comprised farmers, industrialists, businessmen, shopkeepers, professionals and labourers. Maninderjit Singh Bawa Machhian, one of the organisers and a farmer said the main motive of organising such a rally was to support farmers who are protesting near Delhi. He added that apart from members of civil society, Gurdwara Singh Sabha Sarabha Nagar also supported the rally. The organiser said the protest started at 5pm and after passing through various areas of Sarabha Nagar culminated near gurdwara. He added that they demanded that repeal of recently passed farming laws by the government. “We will intensify the agitation and form a human chain at Jagraon bridge on Tuesday morning,” said Maninderjit Singh. Meanwhile, protesters were carrying placards with slogans “Punjab bachao, Kisani bachao” and “Agar kisan nahin, Roti nahin”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhianvis-take-put-protest-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/79596426.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||Make Bharat bandh a success: Atul Kumar Anjaan||LUCKNOW: “Three rounds of meetings have been organised between farmer organisations and ministers of the Union government, but nothing concrete has been achieved. Now, farmers have decided to observe 'Bharat bandh' on December 8 to protest against farm laws as well as power law,” said national general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) Atul Kumar Anjaan. He said that farmers are getting support not only from various organisations of workers, but from people from all walks of life. Threatening to intensify their stir, Anjaan appealed to all political parties to make the Bharat bandh a great success. “Even the PM of Canada Justin Trudeau has extended his support to farmers,” Anjaan said. He said that the government, especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi, should understand that merely accusing Opposition parties will not weaken the movement. This struggle has full support of Opposition parties. After the Bharat bandh on December 8 farmers from various states would head towards Delhi, he said adding that farmers have understood if the farm laws are not withdrawn, they will lose their land to corporate houses. Anjaan said the government should not underestimate the farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-bharat-bandh-a-success-anjaan/articleshow/79598844.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||F&B sector jobs, salaries inch towards normal||Kolkata: A majority of Kolkata’s restaurant workers are back to work and most have got their pay-cuts restored as footfall witnessed an upward curve during the Puja-Diwali period and is expected to hold the trend during the Christmas-New Year week.Most restaurants are now operating with 80% of their staff strength that had been reduced to less than half when they reopened after the lockdown on June 8. Unless there is a major slump in sales — which now looks improbable — most plan to bring back their entire workforce by January, according to Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI).Around 80% of employees at central Kolkata restobar Song-Hai are back to work. Their salaries have been restored, too, according to owner and HRAEI president Sudesh Poddar. “There is a post-Diwali slump, which was expected, but we look ahead to a decent Christmas week,” he said. It will, however, be difficult for restaurants to reinstate all their staffers till the 50% ceiling on seating capacity is withdrawn, he said.More than 80% of staffers are back at the Chili’s restaurant chain. The chain had been operating with less than 40% of its workforce till the pre-Puja footfall surge. “If the 50% cap is lifted, we shall operate at full strength,” said Bajoria.At Amber, more than half of the employees have been called back. Footfall has been high since October, which has helped business, but the restricted seating has been a hurdle, according to owner Sanjay Khullar. “Despite an improved turnout, we are not being able to accommodate all due to the restriction. Since half the tables are blocked to maintain social distancing, we don’t need to employ more than half of our workforce. But it’s being rotated,” said Khullar.More than 50% of employees have been reinstated at Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street. Both have had a 100% footfall (with the 50% ceiling) since the pre-Puja period, according to owner Nitin Kothari. “The revival has been fantastic and it has allowed bring all our employees back with full salaries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fb-sector-jobs-salaries-inch-towards-normal/articleshow/79597582.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune cops arrest 7 for ordering social boycott in Saswad||PUNE: The Pune rural police on Saturday night arrested seven members of a caste (jaat) panchayat on the charge of ordering a year-long social boycott of a woman and her family after she told them not to interfere in a property dispute. The 32-year-old woman belongs to the Kanjarbhat community. As per the FIR lodged by the woman, following her father’s demise, a property dispute arose between her mother and a woman with whom he had an affair. The dispute reached the panchayat, but the complainant and her mother refused to appear before it, police said. The FIR stated that the panchayat ordered a social boycott of her family for one year starting November 3. Police said the arrested members had told the woman she could avoid the boycott by paying a “fine” of five liquor bottles, five goats and Rs1 lakh in cash The Saswad police have registered a case under the provisions of the Maharashtra Prohibition of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016. “We are further investigating the matter,” Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh told TOI. Police identified those arrested as Surresh Ratan Binawat (65), Nandu Atram Rajput (55), Sampat Pannalal Binawat (56), Munna Ramesh Kachrawat (57), Anand Ramchandra Binawat (50), Devidas Raju Chavan (52) and Devanand Raju Kumbhar (51). Police said the woman stays with her family in Dhankawdi and had approached the Bharati Vidyapeeth police, who transferred the case to Saswad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-7-for-ordering-social-boycott-in-saswad/articleshow/79597587.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Niazi’s Merc put on display at Fort William for Vijay Diwas||KOLKATA: In a few days from now, when Muktijoddhas from Bangladesh go around the Army’s Eastern Command headquarters at Fort William, Kolkata, there will be some emotional moments as they get close to a black Mercedes on display. The Muktijoddhas will be at Fort William to celebrate Vijay Diwas on December 16 to commemorate India’s victory over Pakistan in the Bangladesh Liberation War of 1971. The car is now a part of the Eastern Army commander’s fleet, but till 50 years ago, it was a symbol of tyranny as it zipped through the streets of Dhaka, carrying Lt Gen Amir Abdullah Khan Niazi even as he passed orders on how to crack down on freedom fighters. In 1971, Lt Gen Niazi was Pakistan’s military commander in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh). Niazi was highly dismissive of the aspirations of the Bengali population to carve out a separate nation for themselves. And when the Mukti Bahini began challenging the might of the Pakistan Army, he ordered reprisals, even if it led to gruesome torture and deaths. “This was a symbol of the opulence that Pakistan Army officers enjoyed. Martial law was imposed and while people died on the streets of Bangladesh, senior Army officers lived a life of luxury. In 1971, few Indians could have thought of owning a Mercedes. Even today, India’s military chiefs are not allotted vehicles such as these. Fifty years ago, Indian Army chief Gen (later Field Marshal) SHFJ Manekshaw had an Ambassador as his staff car,” an official said. “It is said that Lt Gen Niazi was in this vehicle when it reached Dhaka airport to receive Lt Gen J S Aurora, GOC-in-C, Eastern Command, before the surrender ceremony on December 16, 1971. Lt Gen JFR Jacob, chief of staff, Eastern Command, had accompanied him. After the surrender ceremony, Niazi was taken into custody and brought to Kolkata where he was put up at the historic Kitchener House at Fort William. The Mercedes was also driven from Dhaka to Calcutta as a War Trophy,” another official said. The Mercedes in Kolkata is not the only luxury car brought in from Bangladesh after the 1971 War. There were several others that found their way to other parts of the country. Indian Army officers who fought their way to Dhaka recall seeing high-value cars lying abandoned close to the Pakistan Army cantonments and garrisons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/niazis-merc-put-on-display-at-fort-william-for-vijay-diwas/articleshow/79597595.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||December exams, NTSE mock test to kick start tomorrow||LUDHIANA: State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT) will be conducting the mid-term December exams for all primary, upper primary, secondary and senior secondary classes in the state from Monday till December 24. While all students of classes I to VIII will be evaluated on the basis of online test, the classes IX to XII students will write the exam in their schools, offline. The SCERT has also released the date-sheet for these tests. According to the date-sheet, the online exams of classes 1 to V will be conducted from December 15 to December 19. The exam schedule for classes VI to XII has been fixed from December 7 to December 24. Though these exams for classes I to VIII will be conducted online on Google Quiz, there would be objective and subjective questions in these online exams. The SCERT has already reduced the syllabus for all classes in view of the Covid-19 crisis. The syllabus has been reduced on the basis of the recommendation of a committee of experts. The opening of government schools for classes IX to XII students last week notwithstanding, the attendance of the students in most of the schools are very poor. District mentor for science, Jasvir Singh, “The links have been already shared with the students for objective paper and the subjective questions have been given by respective schools where students will collect the question paper or it will be shared through WhatsApp and they have to submit the answer sheet with the teachers within a day for VI to VIII.” Approximately 10-15% of students are attending the offline classes in the schools. So, with an objective to bring more students of classes IX to XII to the schools, the school education department has decided to conduct the offline exam for these students, besides assessing their learning through the online mode since March 23, when all schools were closed, the school education department want these students to be regular in attending their offline classes in the schools with the December exams so that they could brace up for the final exams in March 2021, said the sources. On the same, Jasvir further adds, “All the precautionary measures will be taken for conduction of an hour exam.” Sanjeev Taneja, district mentor for mathematics, said, “Besides this, a mock test for NTSE will also be conducted from 10am to noon. This is the second mock test. Aim of the examination is to understand where students stand after months of online teaching and learning. The exams of students of classes IX and X will kick start from December 14.” “We want to use the examination as a diagnostic tool to figure out where students are going wrong so that remedial classes can be held,” said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dec-exams-ntse-mock-test-to-kick-start-tomorrow/articleshow/79596434.cms||Mehak Jain
December 7, 2020||India||Goons gun down JD(U) member in Bihar||PATNA: A 42-year-old JD(U) functionary and former panchayat member was gunned down by criminals in Khagaria district of Bihar on Sunday, barely 11 days after the killing of the husband of a mukhiya in the same district, reports Ramashankar. The crime was committed around 7am when Naresh Ram had gone for a morning walk on the outskirts of his village Beldaur under the same police station along with others. Two assailants accosted Ram on the Beldaur-Pansalwa Road and pumped three bullets into his body, killing him on the spot. Sikandar Kumar, an eyewitness and teacher rushed to the spot after hearing the sound of firing only to find the block vice-president of JD(U) lying in a pool of blood. He later reported the crime to the Beldaur police, who sent the body for autopsy. Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar said the reason behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. Khagaria district president of JD(U) Sonelal Mehta expressed his deep anguish over Ram’s murder and demanded immediate arrest of the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/goons-gun-down-jdu-member-in-bihar/articleshow/79599519.cms||Ramashankar
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Mhada can’t apply ’18 notification retrospectively||Nagpur: In a significant ruling, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has held that February 27, 2018, notification issued by the state’s urban development department (UDD) is not retrospective and Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) should pay entire amount as per 2013 and 2015 notifications to the petitioner. Petitioner Sandeep Dwellers Private Limited, through counsel Kartik Shukul, had challenged Mhada’s move to retrospectively implement the UDD’s 2018 notification by denying to pay for 20% housing units in the townships. A division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Avinash Gharote directed Mhada to pay for 20% affordable housing units in big townships meant for weaker sections of the society as per 2013 and 2015 notifications. “We’ve no doubt that the 2018 notification would only have prospective operation. It can’t affect, in any manner, the tenements developed under the petitioner’s inclusive housing scheme. What would be applicable to the petitioner would be the notification of November 8, 2013, read with another one of September 3, 2015,” said the bench. “We direct the UDD and housing development secretaries to ensure that the scheme framed as per 2013 and 2015 notifications is given its full effect and is not frustrated on account of paucity of funds,” said the judges. The UDD through 2013 notification had mentioned that if a builder has land measuring 4,000sq. mtrs. or more, then it must construct flats on 20% of the land for Mhada. These flats were intended for economically weaker sections and low income groups. Mhada was supposed to sell these flats through lottery system within six months. If it’s unable to sell all the flats, it will purchase remaining flats from the builder. In 2015, the UDD came out with another notification by which the rates of these 20% flats were revised. On December 5, 2017, the sanction plan of petitioner was approved as per the 2013 and 2015 notifications. In 2018, UDD came out with one more notification by which the obligation of Mhada to purchase the flats after six months was deleted from the earlier notifications. The outcome was that if Mhada was unable to sell flats in a stipulated period, it was no longer obligated to purchase them. This was challenged by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-mhada-cant-apply-18-notification-retrospectively/articleshow/79597710.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Legal notice sent to Kangana||LUDHIANA: The International Road Safety expert, Dr Kamaljit Soi has sent a legal notice to Bollywood actress Kangna Ranaut for alleged derogatory comment against a farmer woman. The legal notice sent by advocate Parvinder Singh, on behalf of Soi, sought unconditional written apology from her for posting tweet and hurting the sentiments of farmers community and Punjabis at large and an elderly Sikh farmer woman Mahinder Kaur, in particular, by misidentifying her as Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh. It sought compliance from her within three days of receipt of notice failing, which his client will be constrained to initiate all available police, civil and criminal proceedings, including suit for damages claiming Rs 500 crore against her as well as criminal complaint for defamation at her cost and peril.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/legal-notice-sent-to-kangana/articleshow/79596448.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||PAUTA participates in kisan dharna at Delhi||LUDHIANA: Members of Punjab Agricultural University Teachers’ Association (PAUTA) participated in the joint kisan morcha dharna at Delhi on Sunday. The delegation was led by H S Kingra, president of PAUTA. PAUTA has been extending support to the farmers cause since the farmers started protesting at various places in Punjab. The university teachers have been writing articles bringing out the finer nuances of the farm laws. Kingra addressed the huge gathering at the dharna site at Delhi and talked about the adverse impact the laws will have on the agrarian economy. The resilience showed by the farmers in cold winter conditions leaving behind their families is exemplary, he held. He also extended support to the farmers call for Bharat bandh on December 8 and said the university teachers along with non teaching staff and students will organise a solidarity march on December 8 at PAU campus. PAUTA appealed to all sections of the society to support the farmers and urged the central government to conduct earnest dialogue with the farmer organisations to resolve this deadlock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pauta-participates-in-kisan-dharna-at-delhi/articleshow/79596440.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||No shrill rhetoric on Babri anniversary in fortified Ayodhya||AYODHYA: Under a thick security blanket and with the district administration banning any show of protest or celebrations on the 28th anniversary of Babri demolition, the mood in Ayodhya was very unlike past decades with both Muslim and Hindu outfits abandoning their clarion calls of ‘Black Day’ or ‘Shaurya Diwas’. The reasons were twin — the Supreme Court verdict on Ayodhya title suit had brought closure to the Ramjanmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute and enforcement of pandemic Act scuttled any public show of belligerence. While Muslims confined themselves to mosques to mourn the demolition and vowed to defend the Kashi and Mathura masjids, a handful of Hindu Mahasabha members managed to sneak past barricades on Saryu banks and pledged to liberate the two shrines. Talking to TOI, convener of Babri Masjid Action Committee Zafaryab Jilani said, “We have sent a memorandum addressed to the President and Chief Justice of India with an appeal to direct CBI to file a review petition in high court against acquittal of Babri demolition accused. We have also asked Muslims across India to take a pledge to defend Kashi and Mathura mosques, which are being drawn into legal battles.” Senior VHP leader Mahant Kamal Nayan Das said, “We had issued advisories to our cadre not to celebrate the anniversary of Babri demolition as ‘Shaurya Diwas’ and did not hold any event on this day.” Former litigant in Ayodhya title suit from Muslim side, Haji Mahboob, told TOI that community members mourned the demolition and offered prayers. Ayodhya DIG Deepak Kumar told TOI, “the day passed off peacefully with seers and clerics joining hands to maintain harmony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-shrill-rhetoric-on-babri-anniv-in-fortified-ayodhya/articleshow/79598850.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Govt tie-up with new pvt med colleges on the cards||Kolkata: The state health department has invited ‘expression of interest’ from those willing to set up private hospitals in collaboration with state hospitals. The government-owned hospitals, with more than 300 beds, would be available for use at a charge for private medical colleges that don’t have access to clinical facilities, said a notification issued on December 5. The Bengal government has been receiving requests from project proponents who are willing to set up private medical colleges, for which they have land or property but no access to an appropriate hospital — that is a pre-requisite for setting up a medical college, said the circular. “The project proponents are requesting the Bengal government to spare the use of some of its hospitals for a temporary period as this will enable them to apply to the National Medical Commission, for which they are ready to pay to the government certain user charges or fees as it will be decided,” added the notification. Since the deadline for submitting application to the National Medical Commission for the academic year 2021-22 is December 15, the last date for the application on expression of interest will be December 10. The application forms can be downloaded from the state health department website and submitted online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-tie-up-with-new-pvt-med-colleges-on-the-cards/articleshow/79597698.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt must upgrade old age homes, regulate pvt hospitals to care for elderly||T S Chawla Among the three important segments of a human being’s age, the most woeful is old age. Around 50 to 60 years ago, old age was nothing to be overly concerned about as the sons, daughters and grandchildren would all be around in a well-knit joint family structure. However, times have changed fast with modernisation and globalisation and families are scattered. Some people go to foreign countries to study and work while some come back to their home country. Some live separately after marriage and their children become part of nuclear family units. The old well-knit fibre of the family is unravelling and with family members becoming more self-centred, there is less cohesion. Senior citizens miss the love and respect they accorded to their own parents. Even in this situation, they try to adjust and with the passage of time, they start feeling neglected. Some slip into depression while some start falling sick. As the fear of isolation looms large, some think of shifting to old age homes, some start meditating, some find a small job and when they do not get the respect they once enjoyed in life, they start falling apart. The government claims to have made provisions for old age homes but these are not properly maintained. Many senior citizens have found their own ways of improving the quality of life by forming associations and spending time reading books and newspapers besides indulging in recreational activities. Despite the achievements our country boasts of, it is shameful that the elderly are not getting proper attention. In old age, seniors lose all expectations of love and there is no financial security for them like their counterparts in foreign countries. The government must focus on upgrading the quality of old age homes and imbuing them with positivity. Laws must be formulated to protect the elderly and encourage them with confidence. All government institutions like hospitals and old age homes must be well equipped to accommodate senior citizens. Private hospitals which have the support of the government must also be compelled to pay attention to this neglected section of society. If the government has sanctioned small pensions for such people, it should make a regular assessment to see that senior citizens get their dues on time and are able to sustain their life with these resources. The focus should be on opening more hospitals so that they do not suffer for want of medical aid. Neglectful family members must be punished. This may also settle disputes in families concerning property and inheritance. The government must take initiative for the sustainability of their good health, life security, dietary system and family disputes which arise due to property division among members. The government needs to be considerate on the financial aspect too. Senior people’s dependence mostly on ‘fixed deposits’ in banks has been hit hard with the RBI reducing the deposit rate from 8% to 5% in the last year. (Writer is a former journalist)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-must-upgrade-old-age-homes-regulate-pvt-hospitals-to-care-for-elderly/articleshow/79596452.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai roads take turn for worse with rain||CHENNAI: Rani M fell off her two-wheeler after hitting a pothole at Gangai Amman Koil 4th Street in Vadapalani. S Manoharan has been haunting offices of the Greater Chennai Corporation and Metrowater to get them to fix the 500-metre Canal Bank Road in Adyar. Canal Bank Road was dug up to lay water pipelines before the pandemic. The work was stalled after that and resumed in August but it has been going on at a snail’s pace. A Metrowater official said work would resume only after the rain. The rains have made it impossible to commute on many city roads, say long-suffering residents. Rakesh, a resident of Adyar, said a cycle trip from beach road to Kottivakkam was enough for the civic body officials to see the condition of the bad roads. “Jagannathan Street in Kottivakkam, Ramachandra Public School Road are in pathetic shape. Even the first service road in Besant Nagar requires patch work,” he said, naming just some of the roads. All these roads have water logging issues, cause traffic snarls, increase accident risk and make it difficult for roadusers. Among the bus routes, the worse hit are Anna Main Road, KK Nagar, and Demellows Road, Pulianthope, that would require re-laying. A corporation official said roads damaged in showers and because of other civic work will be patched up after the rains. “We have already called for tenders for more than 190 bus route roads and about 24 packages of interior roads that were identified ahead of the monsoon. These roads that have been damaged post the cyclonic rainfall will only be patched up and not re-laid. They will be taken up under the state disaster management relief fund after the monsoon ends. We have already begun surveying these damaged roads,” said the official. Manoharan said that while damaged roads are patched up, the roads where civic work was carried out should be taken up on priority. “They should address the complaints of the residents. We have been waiting for a month now and there has been no action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-roads-take-turn-for-worse-with-rain/articleshow/79597727.cms||Komal Gautham
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Poll binge? Liquor sales hit a new high of Rs 2,500cr in November||HYDERABAD: Revenue from liquor sales in November stood at Rs 2,567 crore, beating the average monthly sales of Rs 1,700 crore. From November 1 till November 25, liquor sales in the state hovered around Rs 1,700 crore, which is the average monthly sale. But sales picked up significantly in the last few days. The high sales volume in November was partly possible as the sales jumped by Rs 867 crore from November 26 to evening of November 29, days before the GHMC polls. While opposition parties said liquor was freely distributed among voters, excise officials said shop owners were given cheque facility to lift stocks due to consecutive holidays. “This could be the reason for the increased sales in those 3-4 days,” said a top official. Several citizens stocked up liquor, as shops were shut from November 29 evening till December 1 evening because of GHMC polls. Also, twice the quantity of liquor was bought on November 29 compared to the volume sold on weekends. Large crowds were seen in front of liquor shops. “Some people purchased enough liquor to fill the boot of a car,” a shopkeeper from Mehdipatnam said. Sources said entire cartons were bought from the shops by liquor lovers the previous say (November 28) as they feared the shops could be closed before the deadline on November 29. A shop owner in Uppal, SK Kumar, confirmed that sales in most of the shops had reached double the normal volume on November 28 and 29 before the shops were closed on Sunday evening for the polls. “The practice of purchasing in bulk had increased in those two days,” he said. In Hyderabad however, distribution of liquor during an election is not high when compared to villages and mandals, he added. The shops wer closed on Friday, the counting and results day. “It is a dry day on December 4,” a shop owner said. Shop owners said the sales started seeing an upward trend since July when the figure touched Rs 2,000 crore. “The sales volume will go up further in December-end with Christmas and New Year celebrations coming up,” a shop owner explained. Officials said a total of 31.60 lakh liquor cases and 23.85 lakh beer cases were sold in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/poll-binge-liquor-sales-hit-a-new-high-of-rs-2500cr-in-nov/articleshow/79596455.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||UP govt ropes in education diploma trainees to promote Diksha App||LUCKNOW: As e-learning has become the new normal amid the coronavirus pandemic, the UP government is roping in education diploma trainees to give a push to the Diksha App, which so far has been accessed by only 1% students in the state. The App is designed to make learning and understanding various subjects in an interesting way. According to UP government estimates, there are 1.8 crore students in government schools and close to 2 crore are enrolled in private schools. Among them, only 1% students could access the learning material on Diksha, an App launched by NCERT in 2017. Since the outbreak of coronavirus that forced classrooms to shut down, education across the country has been heavily dependent on this App, which requires computer/laptop/smartphone but doesn’t need regular internet connectivity. Findings of the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) for UP shows that 44.9% of the surveyed children studying in government schools owned a smartphone as compared to 64.2% children who are enrolled in private schools. Over 7,800 children of age group 5-16 were surveyed during the lockdown period. Following the analysis, in order to reach out to maximum students, the government has now roped in trainees pursuing diploma in elementary education (DElEd) to connect at least 25 students and their parents to the Diksha App. For doing so, the trainees will be given some marks for the task in their final practical exams. The trainees are expected to make students and parents learn the scanning process of QR codes in the textbooks for easy access to the associated lessons on the Diksha platform and watch videos uploaded by the government on various subjects. The Diksha platform offers teachers, students and parents engaging learning material relevant to the prescribed school curriculum. Students can also download the e-content to their pen drives and go through it even when there is no internet connection. According to the director general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand, the trainees have to provide the details of 25 such students/parents linked with Diksha App, to the principal, District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) latest by December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-ropes-in-edu-diploma-trainees-to-promote-diksha-app/articleshow/79598851.cms||Isha Jain
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Majerhat bridge is open but buses still charging extra fare: Passengers||KOLKATA: While the reopening of Majerhat bridge brought respite for many commuters from Behala, with several routes that were closed so far resuming operations, people are worried over the extra fare charged by buses plying on several routes. The commuters taking the re-introduced routes like 222 as well as the existing ones like 77A expressed their anguish on social media in this regard. On an average, the commuters of these routes are being charged Rs 10 as base fare that goes up to Rs 20 for the entire journey. The highest fare on both the routes is Rs 12. However, several long-distance buses from Esplanade to Raichak and Diamond Harbour have recalibrated fares. Regular passengers said that earlier there was a logic behind buses charging the extra fares, especially since the pandemic broke out. “The buses, especially those plying towards Mominpore and then Esplanade had to take a 9-km detour. This route is along the port area, which is thinly populated. So, it was not profitable. When Covid struck and no one was allowed to stand in a bus, there was no other option for bus operators than charging extra fare. But now the situation is different. The buses are plying crowded during office hours with practically zero physical distancing. Even then, they are asking for extra fares when the government gave them enough concessions,” said Rajib Chatterjee, who travels to Esplanade from Behala Chowrasta daily. Riya Das Dey, who is a member of a Facebook page Kolkata Bus-o-pedia — a forum of bus commuters — highlighted how the newly reintroduced Route 222 was charging Rs 20 for a trip from Chowrasta to Girish Park. Soumendra Jana, a bank official travelling from Birlapur, and Sreeparna Acharya, another commuter from Budge Budge, rued that there were regular arguments on buses plying on Route 77A regarding this issue. “Every day, we travel in crowded buses but have to pay Rs 15 for a trip between Bata and Esplanade,” said Acharya. She added that the situation did not change even after local trains from Budge Budge resumed services. The social media handles of Kolkata Police witnessed the pleas of harassed citizens for help to resolve the issue of overcharging in the past one week. Cops are now preparing a list of specific complaints that they plan to share with the transport department. “We are collecting all the complaints and then forwarding them to the authorities concerned. We have instructed our sergeants to penalize any bus worker overcharging passengers,” said an officer from the social media cell at Lalbazar. Nimai Hazra, the 77A route committee secretary, however, denied the claim that conductors were charging extra fares. “Everyone knows our situation. The Majerhat bridge may be operational again but Covid is still there,” said Hazra. “The situation has not improved after local trains resumed services. The drivers who have taken alternate jobs are not returning. Some workers often push the barriers to make ends meet. The government needs to play a more proactive role. But it does mean that we are supporting the issue of overcharging. The expert committee on fares promised us a revision but met us just once. Now, we have a little idea of how many buses are hitting the road daily on a specified route. Some of the worst affected routes include 235, 18A, 13 and 77A that use Majerhat bridge,” said Tapan Banerjee, general secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/majerhat-bridge-is-open-but-buses-still-charging-extra-fare-passengers/articleshow/79597766.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two bank managers get 1-year jail term for loan fraud||PANAJI: The sessions court in Panaji has sentenced a branch manager and regional manager of Bank of Maharashtra to one year imprisonment in a cheating and corruption case for sanctioning an illegal loan of Rs 90 lakh to a bank customer. The accused were charged for forging bank documents by sanctioning a third party loan between 2009 to 2012. The accused was given a loan on the basis of deposits of two other bank customers. The case came to light during an internal inquiry conducted by bank . “There is evidence to show that Arun Narayan Ambre (branch manager) and Prakash Vishnu Shinde (regional manager)conspired and managed to arrange to give an amount of 90 lakh to Dinesh Shantaram Jaitapkar. They have both misused their position being branch manager of Mapusa branch and zonal manager of the regional office. Therefore, they both are liable for having committed offence punishable under Section 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,” the court stated. The court also sentenced the customer to one year in the cheating case. The court found that Ambre and Shinde, being public bank employees, illegally sanctioned two loans against deposits of a customer to the tune of Rs 40 lakh and against the CDRs of a company to the tune of Rs 50 lakh without their knowledge and consent. The court stated that the case is of fraud committed by the two bank officials in collusion with the accused customer who is involved in the construction business in Sindhudurg. Jaitapkar had approached the Mapusa branch of the Bank of Maharashtra as he was in need of money to clear his outstanding loans of the Kharepatan branch of the Bank of Maharashtra. The branch manager then handed over the entire amount to the accused customer, the prosecution said. The three accused were sentence to six months imprisonments for criminal conspiracy. The sentences will run concurrently. The managers are directed to pay a total fine of Rs 85,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-bank-managers-get-1-yr-jail-term-for-loan-fraud/articleshow/79598858.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Rise of the Hinterland Hero||Chennai: The MS Dhoni success story in the first decade of the 2000s marked the rise of the small-town hero in Indian cricket. Before him there was Kapil Dev who came from Chandigarh and took the world by storm in the 1970s and 80s, but it was after Dhoni that there was a consistent rise in the number of cricketers in the Indian team from outside the metro cities. Read the entire story on TOI+Rise of small town hero in Indian cricket||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rise-of-the-hinterland-hero/articleshow/79597755.cms||Dwaipayan Datta
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||No more traffic diversions, New Alipore locals heave a sigh of relief||Kolkata: Peace returned to New Alipore and Sahapur neighbourhoods — which had witnessed excessive traffic, more pollution and noise because of route reshuffle following the Majerhat bridge collapse — after the new bridge was opened on Friday. For the past two years, all traffic had been diverted through different roads of New Alipore. “My wife decided to celebrate Diwali the day the bridge was opened. Just imagine the amount of joy and cheer the new bridge has brought to our lives. Today, I feel that the environment of pre-collapse days was restored by a wand of magic. My neighbourhood today looks like what it had been earlier. There was hardly any traffic. I reached my office in 15 minutes,” said Vijay Gupta, a resident of New Alipore G Block. Gupta’s morning walk companion, Vijay Chaudhary, too, was happy. “After a long time, I can breathe fresh air again. I could hear the chirping of birds that used to be overshadowed by the unbearable noise of vehicles. The leaves of the trees in my neighbourhood had a layer of soot from the vehicular exhaust. The bridge clearly brought back my right to breathe,” Chaudhary said. After the collapse of the bridge, New Alipore got choked. “The last two years had been a nightmare for us. Our travel time doubled because of the collapse of the bridge. What added to our woes was that the road in front of our house was taken over by cars, autos, buses, trucks and bikes,” said Simran Kaur, a New Alipore block A resident and an MNC executive. Those living on Sahapur Road too heaved a sigh of relief. “The road in front of our house had become one-way. To board an app cab, I had to walk till the nearest James Long Sarani crossing. Returning home in an app cab was even tougher as I either had to take a 2-km detour or walk for 10 minutes after getting off the car on the Sahapur Road – James Long Sarani crossing,” said Sabita Banerjee (73), a resident of Sahapur Road, who has difficulty in walking. Resumption of normal traffic on Majerhat Bridge saw a direct impact on the vehicular movement around New Alipore, Chetla, Tollygunge, Karunamoyee bridge, Purba Barisha and even Behala Chowrasta. After the opening of the Majerhat bridge, there has been a dip in the number of passengers who used to come in auto rickshaws to reach the Metro stations at Tollygunge, Kalighat and Rabindra Sarobar. The auto services to these stations from Behala reported a drop of 20% - 30% passengers on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-traffic-diversions-new-alipore-locals-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/79597831.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Entire Salt Lake may get LED streetlights||KOLKATA: The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is awaiting financial approval from the state government to implement the Rs 20 crore project to wrap up all the 41 wards of the civic body, including Salt Lake with LED streetlights, replacing the old sodium vapour lights. “We have placed the proposal before the government and expecting it to be cleared very soon. The plan is to replace all old sodium vapour lights with LED lights,” said Bidhannagar board of administrators member Sudhir Saha, adding that LED streetlights have already been installed in some stretches of the township. Residents have been complaining for a long time that there are many stretches in the township, which are inadequately lit and becomes dark after sunset.  “Many places in Salt Lake have poor streetlights, specially on the stretches inside several blocks. The plan to install LED lights because it is not only environment friendly and brighter but also saves a lot of electricity bill,” said Tamal Pal, a resident of HB block. Presently there are about 25,000 sodium vapour lights across Salt Lake and adjacent areas, which will be replaced with LED lights, officials said. As per rough estimates, the civic authorities pay a monthly energy bill of about Rs 1.5 crore. “About 60% of the electricity bill will get reduced once all the streetlights are covered with LED,” said a civic official. Officials said that the LED lights will have chip-based sensors and timers, which will automatically turn on the lights once the natural light fades out. The civic authorities will be able to monitor each and every streetlight from its control room and will receive a signal if there is any technical glitch in any of the lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/entire-salt-lake-may-get-led-streetlights/articleshow/79597824.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA may carry out load test on Durgapur bridge||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) plans to conduct load capacity test of Durgapur bridge. It is likely to be shut for a few days. KMDA officials said they have been planning to undertake load capacity test of Durgapur bridge as part of their health audit of all the flyovers and bridges maintained by them. They, however, could not start the work since it was taking additional vehicular pressure since the Majerhat bridge was closed for the last two years. TimesViewIt would be great for the city and its residents if the current momentum can be sustained. A combination of repairs on old bridges, construction of new flyovers and completion of new Metro routes can add speed to the city.With Majerhat bridge operational, the pressure on Durgapur bridge will reduce a bit and the authorities can shut the bridge during the weekend to conduct the test. Some traffic diversion, however, will be required. “The load capacity test of the bridge will be conducted once the police permission for the same is received,” said an official. KMDA has been taking up load capacity test of all its bridges and flyovers in and around the city since last year to check the structural condition of all the bridges. Apart from Durgapur bridge and Ambedkar bridge on EM Bypass, load capacity test of other flyovers and bridges in and around the city have been completed. Load capacity test of Ambedkar bridge will also be conducted once the existing narrow road below the bridge gets widened to divert vehicles. Meanwhile three bridges in the northern part of the city — RG Kar bridge, Belgachhia bridge and Chitpore bridge — will continue to bear additional vehicular pressure till the Tallah bridge is rebuilt. Among these three bridges, Belgachhia bridge is maintained by the state PWD and some minor repair work like reducing the additional bitumen layer from the bridge have been done. KMDA is on the last leg of major repairing and strengthening Chitpore bridge with thorough retrofitting work while traffic continues to move on the bridge. As for RG Kar bridge, officials said it is presently stable and can continue taking the present vehicular pressure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-may-carry-out-load-test-on-durgapur-bridge/articleshow/79597851.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||‘Haryana gas-cutter gang behind Kolkata ATM heists’||KOLKATA: More than two weeks after the multiple ATM break-ins using gas cutters in the city, multiple police agencies probing the case, are now certain that an interstate gang based in the Mewat region of Haryana has been behind the incidents. A multi-agency multi-level probe, which included the study of certain banking transactions and CCTV leads from various toll plazas on national highways, has taken a city police team to Haryana in this regard. Though sources said that the getaway vehicle used by the gang in one such heist in the city has been traced to the Mewat region using these “evidences”, top Lalbazar officers said the probe details were “still not worth sharing”. Sources, however, confirmed that a Kolkata Police team is working in close coordination with local police there to work on some evidence they have collected in this case so far. The development coincides with the findings of the forensic team that the gang had not deliberately set the ATM on fire. “They had stuck professionally as in other places. There was a gap before the fire began, probably due to a short circuit after they broke in. But there was no deliberate attempt at setting the ATM on fire. There were thus early signs that an interstate gang — and not the local ones were involved,” said an expert. Police sources said identifying the getaway vehicle helped them ascertain that they were fleeing the city. “The rest of the puzzle is still being fixed,” said an officer. Nationally in the past two years, Mewat-based gangs — consisting of men from Haryana and UP — have consistently been arrested for such offences. Cops said a special team, which was working on the Mewati gang’s cyber frauds and developing some sources to track these inter-state gangs, has been tasked to help the core ATM theft investigation team with the probe. During interrogation by Gurgaon and Mumbai Police recently, the Mewati gangs, which had been arrested this year had revealed their modus operandi as to how they used to break into ATMs, especially the unguarded ones, and steal cash. Often, a local recruit would help them with precise data and logistics. Cops here said they are keen to know if a similar modus operandi was involved in the multiple heists in the city and its suburbs. “They even tied the ATM kiosk with a belt and pulled it with the help of a car before employing the gas cutter. Later, they cut the machine in half and took away cash. The accused further revealed that they roam around the city at night to search for unguarded ATM centres,” claimed a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/haryana-gas-cutter-gang-behind-state-atm-heists/articleshow/79597774.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||Bolster vaccine storage infrastructure with cold storage chain: UP CM||LUCKNOW: As part of preparation for storage of novel coronavirus vaccine, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to set up a chain of cold storages in every district of the state. Chairing the unlock review meeting at his official residence, the CM pitched for a team, comprising chief secretary RK Tewari, additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dube, and additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, to ensure adequate storage facilities for the vaccine which is expected to arrive anytime next year. On Saturday, the CM had directed officials to raise storage capacity by December 15 to store 2.30 lakh litre of corona vaccine. Laying stress on strengthening contract tracing and surveillance, Yogi emphasised the need for keeping control over the spread of corona pandemic. He asked for special focus on districts like Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Ayodhya which have been reporting higher caseload. The CM underlined the need for regular rounds of senior faculty members in Covid hospitals and availability of oxygen and medicines in sufficient quantity. He also emphasised on strengthening the public address system to make people aware about measures to arrest the spread of pandemic. The CM pressed for more RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests and strengthening of command and control centres. Additional chief secretary, medical and health, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the recovery rate, at present is 94.58%. He said that the state was having as many as 22,160 active cases. A total 1,950 new cases and 24 deaths were recorded in the state in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, Yogi asked the infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Alok Tandon to conduct video conferencing with all districts and assess the situation of employment for labourers. The CM said that the state government was engaging workers in various government schemes. The CM also directed district authorities to increase patrolling and ensure that no road gets blocked because of the farmers’ protest. Youth meets to focus on jobs generation: The UP government would soon be organising youth entrepreneurship conventions wherein various departments would tell their schemes for employment generation. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said that banks would also be invited at the convention. He said that the programme is part of the mission rozgar campaign wherein every district would have an employment portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bolster-vaccine-storage-infra-with-cold-storage-chain-cm/articleshow/79598856.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 7, 2020||India||Unitech MD, kin booked by CBI for ‘cheating bank of Rs 198 crore’||NEW DELHI: The CBI has booked Unitech MD Sanjay Chandra, his father Ramesh Chandra and brother Ajay Chandra for allegedly cheating a public sector bank of Rs 198 crore. On Friday, a court gave Sanjay Chandra interim bail of four weeks on health grounds. The CBI said in the FIR that it had received a complaint from Canara Bank on November 18 after which an enquiry was initiated and a case registered. It has been alleged that Unitech was granted credit facilities under different banking arrangements through which it availed loans against personal and corporate guarantees apart from mortgaged properties. However, the company allegedly sold the properties without informing the bank and diverted and misappropriated funds. The FIR alleged that the bank was owed Rs 198.09 crore as outstanding liability in the form of open cash credit and bank guarantees till May 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unitech-md-kin-booked-by-cbi-for-cheating-bank-of-rs-198-crore/articleshow/79599522.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Surat||Juvenile accused of murder externed from Surat||SURAT: In a rare occurence, a 16-year-old boy accused of murder has been externed from Surat city for three months after being granted bail. While granting him bail, the Surat district and sessions court directed the juvenile that he should not enter the city limits except to mark his presence necessary for investigation. The teenager has also been barred from leaving Gujarat without permission of the Juvenile Justice Board, Surat and not enter the vicinity where the complainant and witness reside. The boy, who was 16 years and 10 months, is accused of killing a man named Milind on April 15 this year. He and 11 others had attacked the victim with lethal weapons over some fight. They are also accused of trying to kill the complainant Suresh Sirsat, 25, a resident of Godadara and a witness in the case. They were all booked by Limbayat police station on various charges including a murder and various sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Prevention of Atrocity Act. On November 11, the principal magistrate presiding over the Juvenile Justice Board had rejected his bail application after which his mother moved the sessions court for regular bail. He was released on a surety of Rs 25,000 and a personal bond of the like amount. “In case of breach of any of the conditions, bail application shall be cancelled automatically and Juvenile Justice Board has liberty to modify or add in above condition,’‘ the December 5 judgement stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/juvenile-accused-of-murder-externed-from-surat-city/articleshow/79596497.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||T expenditure dips 7% compared to last year||Hyderabad: Even as chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to conduct the review of agriculture in the state with focus on distribution funds for Rythu Bandhu scheme on Monday, the financial situation with expenditure details do not project bright indications. Till the month of October, Telangana is 7% behind the expenditure that was incurred during the same period last financial year. The state had pegged total budget estimate for expenditure at Rs 1.6 lakh crore. According to latest figures on revenue and expenditure till October, Rs 69,643 crore was spent, which is about 43% of the total estimated expenditure. But the figures for last financial year depict that the state had spent 50% of the estimated expenditure till October. Budget estimates and financial details for 2019-20 show that state had spend about Rs 64,835 crore. Though the figure is less than what has been spent till October this year, the percentage is higher than this year as the estimated expenditure was Rs 1.2 lakh crore for last financial year. The situation this year is similar to 2018-19 during which by October, only 43% estimated budget expenditure was spent. The state government is facing a fund crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic and has not come back to the normal revenue generation cycle like before Covid-19 . The state has ambitious plans of spending Rs 22,061.18 crore on capital expenditure this year. But the capital expenditure up to October is just Rs 8,010 crore. If the revenue collections continue to be low in the coming months, it may have an impact on the capital works. The expenditure is just 36% of what was expected to be spent and much less than what was spent by October last year. As against the Rs 1,43,151 crore estimated revenue receipts for 2020-21, state has received only Rs 38,530 crore till October. The state has mostly depended on borrowings in the last seven months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-expenditure-dips-7-compared-to-last-year/articleshow/79596479.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: NCLAT stays order on ArcelorMittal to pay Rs 1,300 crore for use of slurry pipeline||AHMEDABAD: Steel tycoon L N Mittal-backed ArcelorMittal India Pvt Ltd, the successful bidder for Essar Steel, got some reprieve after the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal stayed the order directing the company to pay Rs 1,300 crore as corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) cost to Odisha Slurry Pipeline Infrastructure (OSPIL) for using its assets. A two-member bench of NCLAT passed the order in the appeal preferred by ArcelorMittal against the direction passed by the Ahmedabad bench of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). “As an ad-interim the operation of the impugned order as regards making of payment by the Appellant to ‘OSPIL’ by 15th December, 2020 shall remain stayed till next date of hearing,” states the order, a copy of which has been reviewed by TOI. On the basis of an application moved by Srei Infrastructure Finance, a financial creditor for OSPIL, the NCLT Ahmedabad bench held that the charges for the use of the Odisha slurry pipeline for running Essar Steel as a going concern constituted as CIRP costs within Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. As per the NCLT, Ahmedabad order the payment was to be made by December 15, failing which, the tribunal could pass a liquidation order against Essar Steel. The order was challenged by ArcelorMittal in NCLAT. The additional cost comes nearly a year after the joint acquisition of Essar Steel by ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel in the Rs 42,000-crore deal. The joint venture was later renamed as AM/NS India. OSPIL owns and operates the 253km slurry pipeline, connecting AM/NS India’s iron ore beneficiation plant in Dabuna with the 12-million tonne pellet plant in Paradip. It is regarded as a critical asset for the steel plant and was leased to Essar. Harish Salve, representing ArcelorMittal, submitted before the tribunal that the appellant has been directed to make payment of charges as IRP costs to an entity which had not claimed it during the CIRP of Essar Steel or even thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nclat-stays-order-on-arcelormittal-to-pay-rs-1300-crore-for-use-of-slurry-pipeline/articleshow/79597855.cms||Maulik Pathak
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Combative BJP plans state-wide yatras to reach out to youth||HYDERABAD: Buoyed by the success in GHMC polls, BJP has charted out bigger plans to expand the party and increase cadre in the state. BJP leaders are mulling to take up yatras in the state. The state-wide tours, hoping to increase mass contact with people, are aimed at attracting the youth. Sources in the party said BJP Telangana chief Bandi Sanjay would take up tours along with other leaders. Initially, the focus would be on Warangal and Khamama, where civic polls are due in the next few months. BJP State President Bandi Sanjay Kumar celebrate as the party flared well in the GHMC Elections outside the party office on Friday. BJP national president JP Nadda has taken up a programme to tour 120 districts across the country. Similarly, state-level leaders would take up regular tours, the sources said. BJP MP Dharmapuri Arvind celebrating the success of the BJP in GHMC pollsBJP has poor presence in some districts, especially Khammam, which was once a citadel of the Communists, and large section of people having ideological leaning towards the Left parties. Sanjay has also categorically stated that they want to plant the saffron flag in the communist citadel. “As many left-leaning political families are turning towards BJP, it would not be very difficult for us to increase our base with tours,” a top source said. However, details of the tour programme have to be worked out. “The idea is to have continuous contact with the people and understand their issues, especially the younger generation,” the sources said. BJP has given chance to many youngsters and educated people in the GHMC polls. “ any youth are upset with the TRS regime for not giving enough employment opportunities. They will get a voice in our party,” a party leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/combative-bjp-plans-state-wide-yatras-to-reach-out-to-youth/articleshow/79596489.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Waste of GHMC polls: 500 tons of additional trash/day||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls resulted in the generation of an additional 500 tonnes of trash daily for a week. On an average, 5,500 tones of waste is generated every day in GHMC limits, since the time polls were announced, the amount of garbage generated spiked to 6,000 tonnes. On November 29, when an exclusive drive was held by the civic body, 6,499.12 tonnes of garbage was collected. Apart from regular garbage, the additional trash collected was mostly publicity material including banners, flags, pamphlets and other elements used during roadshows. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s enforcement vigilance and disaster management team said wall posters pasted in public spaces were a major menace. “Stickers at bus stops, electric poles, transformers and walls cannot be removed easily like flex banners and buntings. Removing pasted stickers is time consuming and difficult,” said a staffer. Nineteen special teams were formed to remove existing advertisement material put up before and after announcement of polls. All additional waste, most of it dry waste was sent to Jawahar Nagar for recycling. Defacement Act was completely ignored and civic body had to press into service staffers to pull down advertisement elements. Though GHMC earlier fined private players for pasting wall posters in public spaces, political party representatives were not penalised amid polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waste-of-polls-500-tons-of-addl-trash/day/articleshow/79596481.cms||Nabinder Bommala
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||BJP smashes dominance of rivals in Lucknow, Meerut MLC seats||LUCKNOW: The graduate constituency seats of Lucknow and Meerut divisions in the legislative council will see fresh faces after BJP candidates smashed decades-old dominance of incumbents and won by a huge margin. With these twin victories, the saffron brigade romped home with six seats, including three teachers and three graduate constituencies out of total 11. An Election Commission official said, BJP candidate Awanish Kumar Singh, 41, won Lucknow division seat by a margin of 6,403 votes against the sitting MLC Kanti Singh, 52. The Lucknow division graduate constituency had been dominated for 18 years by Kanti Singh’s family, who are primarily involved in education institution business. After 80 hours of pain-staking preferential vote counting, Awanish Singh received 39,588 votes, while Kanti Singh received 33,185 votes of 1,09,323 valid votes. Similarly, the Meerut division graduate constituency which was dominated for 24 years by Hem Singh Pundhir of Madhyamik Siksha Sangh was decisively won by BJP candidate Dinesh Goyal by a margin of 28,769 votes. Dinesh received 46,212 votes while Hem Singh Pundhir managed 17,443 votes only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-smashes-dominance-of-rivals-in-lucknow-meerut-mlc-seats/articleshow/79598860.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Surat||We can help, dial 100: Surat cops to drug addicts||SURAT: Any person struggling with drug addiction and wants to get rid of it, he or she can now directly call the police control room number 100 for help in Surat city. Not only will they get advice on how to deal with addiction but also support in finding the right de-addiction centre. Most drug addicts stay wary of cops and their family member try to hide the addiction problem fearing police action. But with the ‘No Drugs In Surat’ campaign the city police is extending a helping hand to the addicts and also promising that they won’t face investigation if they come forward. The Surat city police has claimed this to be the first of its kind initiative by police in the state where cops will help drugs addicts recover. Hoardings with writing ‘We can help, call 100.’ have come up in many parts of the city since Thursday. “The campaign has been launched to create a situation in the city where there is no demand for drugs. It will ultimately finish the illegal market of drugs if there are no buyers. We need to go to that level,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. He said that during the campaign they will use social media, audiovisual presentations, advertisement hoardings and posters to reach out to the citizens, especially the youngsters. “It will be a people’s campaign as many leaders of the society from different fields will joining in. We have got good responses from people after the successful drug seizure,” said Tomar. The campaign was planned after party drug mephedrone worth Rs 1.31 crore was seized from the city on September 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/we-can-help-dial-100-surat-cops-to-drug-addicts/articleshow/79596474.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 7, 2020||Agra||Firozabad: Bank manager shoots second wife after argument||AGRA: A bank manager allegedly shot dead his wife after a heated argument in Firozabad district. Asharam got into an argument with Vineeta, his second wife, over a scuffle between her children and those of his first wife. During the argument, he shot her using a country-made pistol. Asharam is absconding along with his son from his first wife. According to the police, Asharam, resident of Ramesh Nagar Bank Colony in Shikohabad, is the manager of a bank’s branch located at Firozabad Station Road. Asharam married Vineeta, resident of Parsotti, Agra, after the death of his first wife. Asharam has two sons from his first wife, while Vineeta has one son. Late on Saturday, Asharam, along with his first wife’s son, Sumit, shot at Vineeta killing her on the spot. The two locked the house and escaped after committing the crime. Police reached the spot after getting the information. SSP Ajay Kumar also visited the spot. He said strict action will be taken against the accused. The deceased woman’s son Ankit Kumar has accused his father and half-brother Sumit of murder. Ankit told that there was a quarrel between his parents almost every day. Shikohabad circle officer Baldev Singh said, “On the basis of a complaint lodged by the victim's son, a case has been registered against Asharam and Sumit under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder). Both of them will be arrested soon. Body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bank-manager-shoots-second-wife-after-argument/articleshow/79596471.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Interpreting Andal in different styles||CHENNAI: Tamil saint-poet Andal has been like a life-long companion for dancer Anita Ratnam — she learned her poems through Carnatic music, and danced inspired by her Tiruppavai poems. That’s why, to take Andal to audiences across the country, Ratnam has come up with ‘Andal’s Garden’ — a series of dance performances on Andal’s compositions — which will be launched online on December 16 for Margazhi. "This project is based on the 30 songs of the Tiruppavai, composed by Andal or Godai (beautiful garland) when she was barely 12 years old," says Ratnam, who wants to ensure that ‘Andal’s Garden’ goes beyond Bharatanatyam and the Tamil world. "Tamil scholars, Carnatic musicians and Bharatanatyam dancers have all been possessive about Andal and her poetry. But she wrote about love and devotion and I thought, if dancers of all styles dance the bhajans of Meera, then why can’t everyone dance Andal?" says Ratnam. So she chose dancers, men and women, from Odissi to Manipuri, Kathak and Kathakali. "I wanted all these styles and also Bharatanatyam to respond to the images and suggestions of the Tiruppavai compositions," says Ratnam. Ilena Citaristi, an Odissi dancer from Bhubaneswar; Kuchipudi artist Rathna Kumar from the US; London-based Bharatanatyam dancer Divya Kasturi, Kathak proponent Madhu Natraj from Bengaluru, Mohiniattam dancer Gopika Varma from Chennai, VIlasini Natyam dancer Anupama Kylash from Hyderabad, Bharatanatyam dancer Ajith Bhaskaran from Malaysia and Kathakali exponent Haripriya from Kerala will all be performing to Andal’s compositions. The Tamil verses were translated and word-to-word meanings given to the dancers. "We also hired professional singers to create the original tracks for each artist. Tamil is a dense language. There are many words clustered together and I did not want the dancers of other styles, used to the sound of Odia and Hindi, to get intimidated," says Ratnam. Though the choreography is done by the dancers themselves, they were given a few instructions. "I told them not to wear too much jewellery, shoot in the outdoors and not wear the traditional flower garland and side hair knot typical of Andal. The aim was to enjoy her poetry and not to be Andal," says Ratnam. Mumbai-based Bharatanatyam dancer Pavitra Bhat, who is also performing, says that he worked with a Tamil musician from Delhi, spoke to scholars to understand the literature and listened to spiritual discourses online to choreograph his piece. "It took me a couple of weeks and then recorded my performance in a garden in Bengaluru," he says. "Since Margazhi starts on December 16, we will be posting one video of a dance every day at 6am IST, the early morning hours in which the songs were composed, for 30 days," says Ratnam, adding that it will launched simultaneously on Narthaki.com, as well as its Facebook and Instagram handles and on all her personal social media pages. "We have extra dancers who have been most enthusiastic, and we will be posting additional videos at 7pm as well." Ratnam feels the pandemic has given her the opportunity to make the digital platform a world stage. "I feel strongly that Andal is speaking out at this time. She is having her voice heard. I am so grateful to those artists who have kept her memory alive through dance and music," she says. "Vyjayantimala is one icon who has danced and adores Andal. She was my inspiration ever since I saw her in an Andal production when I was 10 years old."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/interpreting-andal-in-different-styles/articleshow/79597854.cms||Priya Menon
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Palasa cashews losing mkt share as cultivation shrinks||Visakhapatnam: Despite the Palasa cashew’s famed rich taste and unique flavour, its 80-year-old industry is gradually losing sheen as a result of decline in plantation and production along with export of kernels to other states. In Andhra Pradesh, cashew is grown mostly in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West Godavari districts. Both domestic and international market have robust demand for processed kernels and cashew nut shell liquid. The state’s cashew industry is now facing stiff competition from other states such as Odisha and West Bengal. Cyclones, heavy rain, and the pandemic have also hit the industry hard. In 2018, the cyclone Titli destroyed cashew crops in over 1,600 hectares in parts of Srikakulam district. The destruction of cashew crop in Srikakulam and in the neighbouring state of Odisha due to cyclones have adversely affected the industry for years. With traders struggling to procure sufficient raw cashew from Srikakulam, many have started depending on imports. The Palasa and Kasibugga areas of Srikakulam district are home to over 300 cashew processing units. Under normal circumstances, the units produce a combined 60,000 kilograms of cashew kernels per day. However, as a consequence of the pandemic and a shortage of raw cashew, production figures have come down by almost 60% in 2020. Speaking to TOI, the owner of a cashew processing unit in Palasa, Malla Rameswara Rao, said that the area under cashew cultivation across Srikakulam district has declined and that cashew yield has also decreased as trees have grown old. Cashew growers in the district have been managing to supply only 30% of the total industrial requirement with industries having to turn to African imports at higher prices to operate their units. “We are appealing to the government to promote new varieties of cashew saplings to rescue the industry,” Rameswara Rao said. Another cashew trader from Palasa, Srinivasa Rao, confirmed that while area under cashew nut cultivation is over 20,000 acres in Srikakulam district, the yield has decreased due to ageing trees. “Due to insufficient raw material in the district, we have had to import it at Rs 125 per kilo. The government needs to set up a cashew development board to save the industry,” Srinivasa Rao said. Explaining the constraints of plantations, horticulture commissioner Chiranjiv Choudhary said that around 70% of the cultivated area is covered by origin seedlings and nearly 40% of the total area consists of old plantations — over 25-years-old — and existing under rain-fed conditions. “Majority of cashew growers in the state are small or marginal farmers who do not follow standard practices and could not invest in a timely manner for crop production,” Choudhary said. The horticulture commissioner said that competition for area expansion from commercially-viable crops like oil palm and low-risk crops like eucalyptus and casuarina are also threatening cashew plantations. “A high incidence of tea mosquito bugs, stem and root borers has also adversely affected cashew crop. There is also a lack of awareness when it comes to proper utilisation of cashew apple,” Choudhary added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/palasa-cashews-losing-mkt-share-as-cultivation-shrinks/articleshow/79596193.cms||Nalla.Babu
December 7, 2020||Patna||JD(U) functionary shot dead in Khagaria||PATNA: A 42-year-old JD(U) functionary and former panchayat member, Naresh Ram, was gunned down by criminals in Khagaria district on Sunday, barely a week after the killing of the husband of a mukhiya in the district. The incident took place around 7am when Ram had gone for a morning walk on the outskirts of his native village, Beldaur, under the same police station along with others. Two assailants accosted Ram on the Beldaur-Pansalwa road and pumped three bullets into his body, killing him on the spot. Sikandar Kumar, an eyewitness and teacher at the local government girls’ school, rushed to the spot after hearing the sound of firing only to find the block vice-president of JD(U) lying in a pool of blood. He later reported the incident to the Beldaur police, which reached the spot and sent the body for autopsy. Agitated over the incident, locals blocked roads and disrupted vehicular traffic at different locations, including Bhagwatipur, Kalisthan and Thana Chowk. The roadblocks were lifted after the intervention of Gogari SDPO P K Jha, who assured the protesters that the killers would be brought to book at the earliest. Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar said the reason behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. “Some locals have told the police that Ram was threatened by somebody at a meeting of the panchayat two days ago,” he added. The deceased also had some dispute with a resident of Sahebpur Kamal police station area in neighbouring Begusarai district. “The police are verifying whether the incident has any connection with the panchayat elections to be held next year,” the SP said. Khagaria district president of JD(U) Sonelal Mehta has expressed his deep anguish over Ram’s murder and demanded immediate arrest of the criminals. “We will approach the senior police officers if the shooters are not arrested soon,” he said. On November 25, Md Kaisar, husband of a mukhiya, was gunned down by armed criminals at Chodhali village in the district during a meeting of the panchayat. Mamta Devi, Khagaria district president of Mukhiya Sangh, alleged that 12 people’s representatives have been killed in the district since 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-functionary-shot-dead-in-khagaria/articleshow/79596979.cms||Ramashankar
December 7, 2020||Delhi||CM to share Delhi’s startup policy at summit||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will speak at The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Global summit on Wednesday. TiE Global is a US-based non-profit organisation that supports entrepreneurs by offering education, mentorship, networking and funding opportunities. The government on Sunday said the CM would share Delhi’s efforts in building a comprehensive framework and turning it into a global start-up destination. It added that Kejriwal was the only chief minister from India who would speak at the summit, alongside several industry stalwarts, world leaders and Nobel laureates. “From entrepreneurship mind-set curriculum in schools to a progressive start-up policy, Delhi government has been in the forefront in making the city a global destination for start-ups,’ it claimed. The summit, which will be a virtual conference of world leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and mentors, will be addressed and attended by government agencies, angel investors, venture capitalists, global industry leaders, global wealth entrepreneurs, thought leaders, academia, Nobel laureates, policy makers, and TiE members from global chapters. Kejriwal is expected to talk about various steps taken by his government to turn Delhi into a global start-up destination, including launching a progressive start-up policy, providing access to affordable infrastructure for the hi-tech and service industry and skilled manpower through a focus on skilling and building an entrepreneurship mindset right from school education, the statement said. The government’s start-up policy aims at accelerating growth of start-ups in Delhi. Kejriwal had convened a meeting with a panel of industry heads and young entrepreneurs in August this year to kick-start the consultation process for the new policy and discuss ideas to develop Delhi as a leading choice for start-ups. The policy also aims to support entrepreneurs and build a robust economic and policy infrastructure, which will create new jobs and bring new competitive dynamics into the current economic system. Referring to a report from TiE from September 2019, Kejriwal had in August highlighted that with over 7,000 start-ups from the region, Delhi had the highest number of active start-ups in the country, the valuation of which was about $50 billion. The report added that Delhi-NCR was set to become one of the top five global start-up hubs with 12,000 start-ups, 30 unicorns, and a cumulative valuation of about $150 billion by 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-to-share-citys-startup-policy-at-summit/articleshow/79597963.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Recoveries surpass new cases, 16 deaths lowest in December so far||NAGPUR: The total number of Covid-19 recoveries (6,289) surpassed positive cases (6,070) for the first time in December. Sunday’s 16 deaths were the lowest in the last six days in the region. With 813 new cases and 1,104 patients recovering, the region now has 2.33 lakh cases and 2.15 lakh recoveries. The recovery rate surpassed 92% again while the case fatality rate reduced to 2.64%. The number of patients under treatment are 11,770 which is only 5% of the total 2,33,068 cases reported in Vidarbha till date. Covid-19 deaths are reducing since last three days. Out of 16 deaths reported on Sunday, 11 were from Nagpur (6 from Nagpur city and 4 from other districts/states). Chandrapur reported 3 deaths while Amravati and Buldhana reported 1 each. Bhandara, Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Akola, Yavatmal and Washim reported no deaths on Sunday. Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 death toll is now 6,163. Sunday’s 813 cases came from Nagpur (308), Chandrapur (102), Buldhana (78), Bhandara (63), Gondia (53), Wardha (46), Gadchiroli (40), Amravati (38), Akola (34), Yavatmal (31) and Washim (20), while 1,104 recovered patients were from Nagpur (416), Chandrapur (130), Bhandara (122), Gondia (107), Gadchiroli (67), Buldhana (64), Wardha (53), Yavatmal (47), Washim (46), Amravati (29) and Akola (23). Buldhana: The district received 781 reports on Sunday. Out of these, 78 tested positive. The number of cases in the district is now 11,570. On the other hand, 64 patients recovered, taking the number of recovered patients to 11,119. Buldhana reported the death of a 64-year-old patient on Sunday, which took the toll to 138. Now, 313 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. Washim: The district reported 20 new cases while 46 patients recovered on Sunday. With this, total cases reached 6,267 and recoveries at 5,910. No deaths were reported. With 148 deaths reported till date, 209 patients are under treatment in Washim district. Akola: From 651 RT-PCR tests and 228 Rapid Antigen tests, Akola district received total 34 positive reports. This took the total number of cases to 9,660 while the 8,717 patients recovered till date. No death was reported on Sunday. Now, the district has 298 deaths reported till date. Total 645 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 40 new patients while 67 patients recovered on Sunday. Now, Gadchiroli has 8,228 total cases, including 7,731 recoveries and 85 deaths. No death was reported on Sunday. Now, 412 patients are under treatment. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli district is about 94%. Gondia: With 53 fresh cases, Gondia district’s overall tally stood at 12,802. Out of these, 684 are active cases. An addition of 107 recoveries on Sunday has increased the recovery rate of the district to 93.38%. No fatality was reported on Sunday. Bhandara: The district saw 63 cases and 122 recoveries on Sunday. This took the total cases of Covid-19 in Bhandara to 11,150 and recoveries to 10,123. No death was reported on Sunday. The death toll remained 260. Total 767 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Thirty-eight new cases on Sunday took the district’s caseload to 18,217 while one death took the toll to 382. Recoveries of 29 patients took the total to 17,296 for a rate of 95.14. This left 502 active cases under treatment, including 270 in home isolation. Wardha: Forty-six more positive patients were reported in district on Sunday, taking the total to 8140. Meanwhile, 53 patients were discharged. So far, 7,436 recoveries were registered. Out of the 536 test reports, 31 males and 15 females tested positive. Cases were reported from Wardha (28), Deoli (10), Hinganghat (5), Arvi, Ashti and Karanja (1 each). No death was reported on Sunday. The toll stands at 255 and 449 active patients. Chandrapur: Covid cases rose to 20,978 with 102 new ones on Sunday. The day also saw three deaths, taking the toll to 319. In all, 130 patients were discharged. Recoveries are 18, 662, while 1807 active patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: Out of 465 test reports, 31 tested positive. The district has 340 active patients under treatment. In all, 11,720 were positive so far of which 11,004 have recovered. On Sunday, 47 positive patients were discharged. The death toll remains the same at 379.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recoveries-surpass-new-cases-16-deaths-lowest-in-december-so-far/articleshow/79597428.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 7, 2020||Agra||53 fresh Covid positive cases in Agra, district tally 9,623||AGRA: At least 53 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 9,623. The patients included two junior doctors of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and a staffer of the district hospital. Besides, there were four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 71 Covid patients were discharged. Of the 9,623 cases reported in the district, 92.1% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 620 on Saturday, to 585 on Sunday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.6%. So far, 8,867 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/53-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9623/articleshow/79596508.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Immunity-boosting food for patients aids APTDC recovery||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) has made around Rs 25 crore over the last few months by providing ‘immunity-boosting’ food to Covid-19 patients in hospitals and care centres and accommodation to doctors and healthcare workers between May and November. The March–November period saw the tourism development corporation incur a loss of nearly Rs 50 crore in the tourism sector due to pandemic-related curbs. However, food supply and accommodation services provided by APTDC have helped it recover at least 50 per cent of the losses, sources informed. Speaking to TOI, APTDC managing director Pravin Kumar said, “The tourism department has been at the forefront, along with Covid warriors’, to complement efforts of the government in Covid-19 management. We strongly believe that food supplied by the tourism corporation to Covid-19 patients helped in faster and better recovery.” Nearly five lakh Covid-19 patients, including 1.41 lakh from Visakhapatnam tourism division, were served food by the APTDC. The cost of food ranged between Rs 300 to Rs 420 depending on the area. The Visakhapatnam tourism division, which includes Vizag city, Srikakulam and Eluru, alone did business of Rs 5.38 crore. “We were able to provide food to a maximum of 8,000 people a day during the peak September–October period. Later, supply came down gradually,” a senior APTDC official based in Vijayawada said. Sources said that Andhra Pradesh was one among few states to get the tourism department involved in Covid-19 management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/immunity-boosting-food-for-patients-aids-aptdc-recovery/articleshow/79596097.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||CMFRI Vizag achieves country’s 1st consistent snapper seed production||Visakhapatnam: Breeding and seed production of John’s snappers have been achieved successfully at the ICAR Central Marine Research Institute (CMFRI) lab in Visakhapatnam. This is the first instance of snapper seeds being produced consistently in the country. With a need arising for species diversification in mariculture and reducing dependence on few species, a mariculture list was prepared by the ICAR-CMFRI with the snapper species assigned top priority. “Snapper was selected because globally it has high demand and is much sought after. It is an excellent species for mariculture owing to its growth rate, efficient feed conversions, superior quality of meat and consumer preference. Earlier, their seeds were only produced in Singapore with limited success,” scientist in-charge at CMFRI’s Visakhapatnam Regional Centre, Subhadeep Ghosh, told TOI. Considering this, the CMFRI started developing broodstock a year-and-a-half ago. “The fish matured and were induced to spawn in the beginning of 2020. However, the eggs obtained were not fertilised. After continued efforts using a combination of several methods, fertilised eggs were obtained in August and the first successful seed production was achieved in September,” Ghosh said. According to CMFRI scientists, for the breeding and seed production, live adult fish were collected from the sea using hook and line fishing gear by local fishermen off the coast of Visakhapatnam. The adult John’s Snapper, weighing between two and five kilos, were transported to the hatchery and given prophylactic treatment. Each fish was tagged with a passive integrated transponder for maintaining records of individual brooder. The nursery rearing of snappers was performed with different feed and culture conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cmfri-vizag-achieves-countrys-1st-consistent-snapper-seed-production/articleshow/79596151.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||Alumni body, MSU ink MoU||Vadodara: M S University’s alumni settled abroad are extending a helping hand to their alma mater. The university has inked an MoU with ‘Vision 2020’, a group of alumni mainly from Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) currently settled in United States and other parts of the globe. Through the agreement, the former students will provide scholarship, mentorship and even support current students by helping them in their startups. “We were in discussion since last couple of months. This group of alumni had approached us with the intention of giving back to their alma mater,” said MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama. “To begin with the alumni group has decided to provide Rs 25 lakh for this year. The activities will begin from FTE as a pilot and later the group will scale up its activities,” said Chudasama, adding that formalities related to scholarship are being worked out. “The scholarship will go to those students who are meritorious and are not covered under existing schemes,” he said, adding that the alumni group also want to handhold students and groom them for their overall development. “The idea is to increase employability of the current students and also support them in such a way that their entrepreneurial skills are enhanced. We will be inviting applications from students and help connect the existing students with our former students,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/alumni-body-msu-ink-mou/articleshow/79595854.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav joins farmers’ stir in first big showdown with BJP after 2019||LUCKNOW: Riding the cycle to success in 2012 and then tossed out of power by the Modi wave, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh is again trying to come out of oblivion by riding the tide of farm protests raging in Delhi in his first big showdown with the BJP government since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. On Sunday, he announced a 25km ‘kisan yatra’ from Kannauj on Monday to express solidarity with millions of protesters demanding repeal of farm laws. Buoyed by the victory of SP candidates in three council seats and trying to galvanise cadre for 2022 polls, Akhilesh declared unconditional support to the Bharat Bandh by farmers’ union on Tuesday. He made the announcement while pay tributes to BR Ambedkar at the party headquarters in Lucknow. Akhilesh will drive a tractor from Thakia to Tirwa in Kannauj, which had been the traditional parliamentary constituency of his wife, Dimple. He chose Thakia to remind farmers about his flagship project to construct five mandis along the Agra-Lucknow expressway, which has been wallowing in neglect for four years and would have served as a pivot to market their produce. Traditionally, Samajwadi Party has grassroots support in rural areas and the ongoing farmers’ agitation seeking repeal of three farm laws by the Modi government, has come has an opportunity for Samajwadi Party president to shore up his support base. This is not first time SP has come out in support of farmers. Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav would woo farmers by writing off their cooperative bank loans and tubewell electricity bills. Mulayam even befriended farmers’ leader Mahendra Singh Tikait and hijacked the socio-political legacy of Chaudhary Charan Singh. Following in his father’s footsteps, Akhilesh too tried to consolidate his farm support base by building a series of kisan mandis along Agra-Lucknow expressway and developing kisan markets in main cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-joins-farmers-stir-in-first-big-showdown-with-bjp-after-2019/articleshow/79598896.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Urbanisation, heavy rainfall trigger localised micro tremors, say experts||HYDERABAD: The recent bouts of highly localised tremors and sounds emerging from the earth in parts of Hyderabad are triggered by rapid and unsustainable urban growth, warn geophysicists. Unhindered construction activity, involving building of cellars and sub-cellars, and sinking borewells deep have further increased the vulnerability of Hyderabad to seismic events. Besides human activity, natural phenomenon, including heavy rainfall in short spans of time, location of water bodies, and sudden increase in groundwater table are also responsible for tremors. One of the epicentres is located at Durgam Cheruvu, which has, of late, emerged as a major tourist destination. Geophysicists have found a “trend”, a type of seismic line, running from KBR Park to Durgam Cheruvu. Incidentally, most of the seismic activity, though minor in nature, was recorded in Jubilee Hills area where KBR Park and Durgam Cheruvu are located. These areas have been witnessing construction boom with several multi-storeyed buildings coming up. Apart from Jubilee Hills, areas like Toopran, Gajwel, Medchal, Patancheru, Gandipet and Pratap Singaram — all around Hyderabad — have also recorded localised tremors. Prof G Ramadass, retired professor of geophysics, Osmania University, said the increase in the frequency of seismic events could be attributed to rapid and unsustainable urban growth, which has further increased the vulnerability of Hyderabad to seismic events. “Our study revealed, there is an increase in the frequency of micro earthquakes in Hyderabad in the last 47 years. They are localised swarm-type micro earthquakes, concentrated mostly around Gandipet and Jubilee Hills,” he said. Prof Ramadass, who is also associated with the Centre of Exploration Geophysics, OU, said with increasing urbanisation, the occurrence of micro earthquakes is significantly increasing. “Seismologists and urban experts should give a fresh thought based on the distribution of tremors,” he said, adding that as urban concentrations grow, there is a need to identify structurally weak zones to take up hazard management plans. Hyderabad is also experiencing tremors following events of heavy rainfall. The unprecedented rains in October also triggered seismic activity in and around the city with reservoirs getting filled up. For instance, in 1982 there were 48 micro seismic events and 16 in 2017. Jubilee Hills had witnessed 979 tremors between 1994 and 2017, the severest being 2.8 on the Richter scale. As heavy rains induce more percolation of rainwater into the water table, water fills up the gaps or air pockets created by digging of borewells and blasting of rocks for construction of cellars or sub-cellars. As water seeps into the gaps, it creates sounds and vibrations. Such incidents were reported at Borabanda during the recent heavy rains, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/urbanisation-heavy-rainfall-trigger-localised-micro-tremors-experts/articleshow/79596506.cms||Syed Akbar
December 7, 2020||Surat||School teacher jumps into canal near Bardoli||SURAT: A teacher with a private school in Mahuva town of Surat jumped into a canal passing through his native Allu village of Bardoli taluka on Sunday. Fire brigade teams have launched a rescue operation to trace the teacher, Neerav Patel, a resident of Kapura Faliya of Allu village. According to sources, a villager saw a man jumping into the canal and alerted the fire brigade in Bardoli town. Later, it was found that the person was Neerav, who is in his early thirties. "The search operation is still on,'' PB Gadhvi, fire officer, Bardoli, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/school-teacher-jumps-into-canal-near-bardoli/articleshow/79596521.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Pawan Kalyan to stage Nirasana Deeksha today||VIJAYAWADA: After the conclusion of his Rythu Yathra in south-coastal AP, Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan is preparing to stage Nirasana Deeksha on Monday, demanding immediate aid to farmers who lost their crop in cyclone Nivar. Kalyan, who visited Krishna, Guntur, Nellore and Chittoor districts to assess crop damage in the cyclone, interacted with farmers who demanded support for making arrangements for the Rabi season. Kalyan said the government should consider the demands raised by farmers and called for immediate aid of Rs 10,000 for all farmers who lost their crop and Rs 35,000 per acre as compensation for paddy fields damaged by the cyclone. “It is the responsibility of the government to help farmers in this tough time. The government is promising to give input subsidy, but what will farmers do in the meantime. State government should immediately release Rs 10,000 for every farmer, including tenant farmers, and help them overcome losses,” Kalyan said. Chairman of Jana Sena’s political affairs committee Nadendla Manohar said party workers across the state should participate in Nirasana Deeksha that will be held at district, mandal and constituency headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pawan-to-stage-nirasana-deeksha-today/articleshow/79596115.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Sangam chairman slams govt over Amul concessions||Vijayawada: Sangam dairy chairman Dhulipalla Narendra Kumar condemned allegations made by ministers on dairy. Addressing a media conference here on Sunday, Narendra alleged the government was trying to kill cooperative dairies in state by encouraging Amul. “We are running dairies since 1977 and doing good for dairy farmers spread across Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts. But the state government is trying to defame us with baseless allegations. CM Jagan Mohan Reddy should act as a brand ambassador for Vijaya dairy but he is promoting Amul... ignoring local societies,” Narendra said. Narendra questioned the government and demanded explanations for providing chillers and other machinery free of cost to Amul. “State government is publicising that Amul is giving extra price to farmers. But Sangam had given more money. We had shared a bonus of Rs 225 crores with farmers over the last two years. The government should stop the blame-game and explain their motives behind investing huge amount in Amul even though they are giving lesser price when compared to other states,” he said. The Sangam dairy chairman added that the government should not impose restrictions on farmers to supply milk to Amul as it will effect other cooperative dairies in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sangam-chairman-slams-govt-over-amul-concessions/articleshow/79596168.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Osmania University allows students to change exam centres||HYDERABAD: Osmania University on Sunday gave postgraduate and pre-PhD students currently residing in their hometowns the option to change their examination centre online to one of the 23 centres constituted by the university outside its jurisdiction. The varsity, which has already allotted the examination centres within its jurisdiction to all the PG students of II Semester main and I and III Semesters backlog and to the students of Pre-PhD (Ph.D. course work) said students can exercise the option on its website. “The students who are presently residing away in their places and want to appear for the examinations in one of the nearest centres to their place of residence may change the examination centre on their own to one of the centres constituted by the university outside its jurisdiction by exercising the option at http://pg.ouexams.in by following a due procedure,” read the university circular. The place opted by the student for writing the examination will be sent to the registered mobile number through SMS and to the email id.  The varsity said that students who do not exercise any option shall have to appear for the examinations in the respective centres allotted by the university. If the number of options in a particular centre is less than 20, the University may allot another centre to such students. The deadline for exercising centre option for the students of PG is 00.00 hrs (midnight) of December 9 and for Pre-PhD students, it is December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-allows-students-to-change-exam-centres/articleshow/79596499.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||2 aides named in ‘murder’ FIR of RTI activist||HARIDWAR: An FIR for murder has been filed against two associates of RTI activist Pankaj Lamba and another person for his death on Friday on the outskirts of Haridwar. The 50-yearold was killed at a party, when he showed his licensed pistol to a16-year-old and she is believed to have accidentally fired, fatally hitting Lamba in the neck. Lamba had blown the lid off Uttarakhand’s SC/ST scam, estimated to be over Rs 350 crore. According to wife Jyoti, Lamba’s friends Manav and Kasim came to their house on Friday and asked him to stop a “theft at his land”. He left with them. The three were later said to be at a party at the girl’s residence. Brother Arun told police that Lamba had received a threat two days ago from the mining mafia in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-aides-named-in-murder-fir-of-rti-activist/articleshow/79599524.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||DA case against Kamareddy DSP, ammunition seized||Hyderabad: ACB sleuths registered a disproportionate assets (DA) case against Kamareddy DSP T Lakshminarayana after unearthing assets worth Rs 2.1 crore disproportionate to his known sources of income. During searches conducted at his house in connection with the bribery case registered against Kamareddy Inspector and two others, the ACB team recently seized 30 unaccounted live rounds and two empty shells of various calibres. Following the arrest of Kamareddy inspector I Jagadish and his associate M Sujay for demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe from complainant Bathula Sudhakar in relation to cricket betting case registered under Telangana Gaming Act, ACB teams conducted searches at Kamareddy DSP’s houses in Trimulgherry, Secunderabad, his official residence and office in Kamareddy. During the searches at his house Plot no 35, P & T Colony, Trimulgherry, Secunderabad, the ACB team seized 30 live rounds of various calibres and two shells. The DSP told police that the ammunition could be from the period when he worked as Inspector and SI in Maoist affected areas of erstwhile Nizamabad district. Apart from the ammunition, the ACB also uenarthed Rs 2.1 crore worth disproportionate assets including, 17 agricultural lands in Janpahad, Ganugabanda of Nalgonda district, Patharajampet of Kamareddy district, five plots in Machabollarum, Mansoorabad of Ranga Reddy district, Gopanpally and Mubharaknagar of Nizamabad district, three houses in Trimulgherry, Miryalaguda and Saroornagar. As per the official release issued by the ACB, the DSP is being arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/da-case-against-kamareddy-dsp-ammunition-seized/articleshow/79596533.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS a father-son party, taunts Laxman||Hyderabad: Former president of Telangana BJP and OBC morcha national president Dr K Laxman on Sunday termed the TRS as a ‘father-son’ party and the AIMIM as party of ‘two brothers’. Interacting with the media during a ‘Meet The Press’ programme here, Laxman said that people in the state are vexed with the TRS regime. “The anti-TRS sentiments were reflected in the GHMC polls,” he said. He alleged that large-scale corruption took place in the distribution of flood relief and added that just a few heavy rains wreaked havoc in the city. “We will tell the people about the failures of the TRS regime,” he said, adding, “The state government has failed in giving unemployment allowance to the people and AIMIM and TRS are indulging in dirty politics.” He alleged that after the BJP won in Dubbak, the polls were conducted hurriedly for GHMC by the state government. “Even though the polls were held in a hurry, we did well, we will come to power after the next assembly elections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-a-father-son-party-taunts-laxman/articleshow/79596511.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Surat||Grand betrothal: Former minister, three others sent to judicial custody||SURAT: A court in Vyara on Sunday rejected police’s plea for five more days remand of four persons, including former minister and BJP leader Kanti Gamit, who have been booked for brazen violations of Covid-19 rules by organizing a grand betrothal ceremony of his granddaughter attended by thousands in his native Dosvada village. Along with Gamit, his son Jitendra alias Jitu, LIB police inspector CK Chaudhary and head constable Nilesh Manilal were sent to judicial custody. The Gujarat high court had taken a serious note of the video of thousands dancing to DJ tunes during the November 30 event that had gone viral last week. It was only being severe chastised by the by the court, the local police swung into action and arrested 18 persons in Songadh police station under various charges. Also, it was only after the court’s stringent observations that the local police added IPC section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder). Earlier, they were booked under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life). Gamit was also booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act as well. “We had requested five more days custody of the four accused, but it was rejected. They were sent to judicial custody,” said R L Mavani, deputy superintendent of police, Tapi. Police investigation revealed that Gamit and others were fully aware that a massive gathering was likely and were were preparing for it accordingly. Gamit had admitted that he had made arrangements for a music and dance event for over 2,000 people, police said. Report on cops’ negligence soon Surat: Surat superintendent of police Usha Rada is likely to submit the inquiry report regarding negligence of cops in stopping the massive gathering in a couple of days. The inquiry was ordered by Surat range IGP Rajkumar Pandian. Rada is also inquiring about crowding in a marriage function in Kapura village near Vyara in Tapi district. “The inquiries are in the final stage. I will submit the reports soon,” Rada told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/grand-betrothal-former-minister-three-others-sent-to-judicial-custody/articleshow/79596563.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Govt forms crisis group to tackle, prevent chemical accidents in state||Panaji: The state government has formed a state crisis group to deal with major chemical accidents and provide expert guidance so that major incidents can be averted in Goa. The state crisis groups will be aided by district-level crisis management groups and will jointly prepare emergency plans to handle chemical accidents. The committees will also oversee storage and import of hazardous chemicals, rules and forward a report to the central crisis group once in three months. While the state group is headed by the chief secretary, the two district-level groups will be chaired by the respective district collectors. “The state crisis group shall be the apex body to deal with major chemical accidents and to provide expert guidance for handling them,” joint secretary (Environment & Climate Change) Dasharath Redkar said. Goa has several industrial units and hazardous chemical storage installations, particularly Zuari Agro Chemicals, petroleum tanks and naphtha and ammonia tanks. In 2011, a naphtha leak in the port town of Vasco sparked off a major fire. More recently, in 2018, an ammonia-laden tanker overturned at Chicalim and started spewing gas, which resulted in several people getting hospitalised. The state crisis group has also been tasked with reviewing the off-site emergency plans prepared by the district-level groups and examining the adequacy of the plan based on the manufacture and storage of hazardous chemicals. As per the notification, both groups will have representation from the private sector along with secretaries of the health, environment, industries, transport and labour. The district crisis group will have to conduct at least one full-scale mock drill of a chemical accident each year and forward a report of the strength and the weakness of the plan to the state crisis group. The district groups are also responsible for monitoring every chemical accident that occurs within a particular district and will have to keep the Centre and the state group in the loop whenever one occurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-forms-crisis-group-to-tackle-prevent-chemical-accidents-in-state/articleshow/79598975.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Lucknow||‘BJP promised to double income, gave black laws’||LUCKNOW: In an exclusive chat with TOI, before leaving for Kannauj to launch his kisan yatra, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said, “If the government is saying farm laws are for farmers, but if farmers don’t want them, then where is the confusion? The laws should be immediately repealed. NDA government promised to double the income of farmers, but what is being handed out to them are black laws which will further torment them. The BJP government has a hidden agenda to vacate farmers from their ancestral land and ask capitalists and corporate houses to take over.” On being dubbed a twitter neta, who avoids hitting the streets, Akhilesh said, “It’s false propaganda by BJP. During the lockdown, party workers fanned out across state to provide essential commodities, despite criminal cases being slapped against them. During the migrant crisis, I, Dimple and party workers served food and water to lakhs of migrants by walking in the scorching sun.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-promised-to-double-income-gave-black-laws/articleshow/79598923.cms||Subhash Mishra
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Awareness camp on human rights held||HYDERABAD: To spread human rights literacy among the society and to promote awareness on the safeguards available for the protection of human rights, the Telangana State Human Rights Commission (TSHRC), Hyderabad held a ‘Human rights Awareness camp’ in the city on Sunday. G Chandraiah, chairperson of TSHRC, who gave his consent and conducted the programme on the request of the founder of ‘Spotica’ Badminton Arena, Jubilee Hills, enlightened the gathering about the human rights subject, functioning, structure, procedure, and other important aspects of human rights, under the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993. On the occasion, Chandraiah was also felicitated for recently receiving the ‘Nelson Mandela Award – 2020’ at New Delhi. While addressing the gathering, the chairperson of TSHRC also spoke about Dr. BR Ambedkar on his Mahaparinirvan Diwas (death anniversary) and explained his greatness. He also recalled the achievements of late Nelson Mandela. B Janardhan Reddy, secretary for agriculture department, Telangana, Satish, founder of Spotica, and others were present at the event. Chandraiah, a former high court judge, took charge as the chairperson of TSHRC in December 2019. Prior to his appointment, the commission was without a chairperson for about three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/awareness-camp-on-human-rights-held/articleshow/79596544.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman in Mumbai, two MGNREGA job cards in Banaskantha village||AHMEDABAD: A next level of corruption has been unearthed in the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) scam in Banaskantha. Now, a woman who is running a cottage industry in Mumbai has been shown working under MGNREGA in Malana village in Palanpur taluka of Banaskantha district. Not only this, there are two job cards with the same number as hers in MGNREGA. Documents of Malana village panchayat of Banaskantha shows that three job cards including the two in name of the woman has similar numbers. According to the documents,Hema Aakowad who is based in Mumbai was given job work of land levelling in front of a primary school between July 16, 2018 and January 25, 2019. Aaowad’s job card number “57797” is shared with another woman from the village named Geeta Barot — who is shown to have worked for digging pits in the village between April 24, 2017 and June 23, 2020. Sources in village said that Barot too did not work under MGNREGA and the payments were issued in her name. A police officer from Banaskantha said that the issue is under investigation and will be probed under the same case of corruption which was registered earlier in September after various cases of corruption were unearthed in the district. It was revealed that dead men, government servants and cops were all working and taking wages under the job guarantee scheme. Along with that, the documents show that even children attending schools were enrolled under the MGNREGA. After TOI exposed series of corruption in the MGNREGA, the district police and administration have swng into action. A gram rojgar sewak (GRS) from Amirgadh and Sarpanch of Balundra village of Amirgadh taluka of Banaskantha district was held by police. A talati was suspended in the case and other government officers came under scanner after the scam was unearthed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-in-mumbai-two-mgnrega-job-cards-in-banaskantha-village/articleshow/79597949.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Travel firm fined Rs 80,000 for not refunding flight ticket fare||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed a travel firm to pay Rs 80,000 to a consumer, who was not given full refund after her flight was cancelled. Monisha Rao, the complainant, submitted that she is a baking enthusiast and to pursue her passion, she joined a diploma in pastry at an institute in Paris and planned her travel and stay arrangements accordingly. Rao said that she made flight tickets booking on Oman Air through Bird Travels GSA to travel from Hyderabad to Paris, which includes an en route flight from Hyderabad to Muscat, by paying Rs 49, 406 for two people. After making all stay and travel arrangements, she said that the travel firm sent out an email communication informing that the said flight from Hyderabad to Paris was cancelled due to ‘Grounding of 737-Max Fleet’. Rao said she immediately contacted the firm and explained her schedule and enquired about alternative arrangements so that her travel will not be disturbed, but claimed that the firm could not offer a better alternative. When she insisted on a refund of the ticket so that she could look for alternative flight arrangements, she said the firm stated there cannot be any refund. Despite repeated requests, she said that Bird Travels failed to provide any alternative and viable options, and left with no other alternative she booked tickets from some other airline at a higher price. Rao said that even after getting issued a legal notice, the firm did not even bother to reply, hence she filed this complaint. The opposite party, meanwhile, did not choose to contest the case despite being served notice. “It is the bounden duty of the opposite party to return the entire amount of the complainant and they are not allowed to take shelter saying that terms and conditions of their policy would not permit them to refund the entire amount,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/travel-firm-fined-rs-80k-for-not-refunding-flight-ticket-fare/articleshow/79596548.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Anaesthesiologists at the forefront in Covid-19 battle, play key role in ICUs||Hyderabad: Anaesthesiologists are playing a key role in the recovery of most patients in intensive care units (ICU) and the ones on ventilator, bringing anesthesiologists who otherwise remained in the background to the forefront. In fact, back in April, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) had issued guidelines making anesthesiologists alongwith general medicine and pulmonary medicine specialists part of the core team in Covid-19 and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) management in ICUs. Apart from the fact that there is a huge shortage of specialists on one side, multiple challenging roles in surgery and critical care as well as pain management is pushing up the demand for anaesthesiologists. “There has been some attempt at poaching of these specialists from government hospitals by private ones, however it has not led to any loss of staff so far,” said a senior official of the state health department. In fact, in many private hospitals, each anaesthesiologist is put in charge of the entire ICU shift, filling for the other specialists too. With anaesthesiologists being part of the core Covid-19 team and being recognised more now, the demand for courses in anaesthesiology is on the rise among medical students. “It is one of the top five specialty branches for the last 10 years and has become even more attractive now. However, the problem is that there are only 3,669 anesthesia seats in the country which means that India has one anaesthesiologist per one lakh population as against the prescribed norm of five anaesthesiologists per lakh population,” said Dr Kiran Madala, incharge, head of department of critical care and anaesthesia, at Nizamabad Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anaesthesiologists-at-the-forefront-in-covid-19-battle-play-key-role-in-icus/articleshow/79596537.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman attempts to trespass TRS Bhavan, taken into custody||Hyderabad: On knowing that TRS working president KT Rama Rao was inside TRS Bhavan, a woman attempted to barge into the building but she was stopped by the police on Sunday. She raised slogans demanding justice but was taken into custody by Banjara Hills police immediately. Police said that this is not the first time that the woman tried to enter TRS Bhavan. “In the past too, we had to catch her and take her into custody. She is disturbed as she was cheated by a man, who failed to marry her. Based on her complaint, a rape case was registered against him and he was arrested too. But she now wants the police to help her get married to him,” Banjara Hills police said. According to police, the woman entered TRS Bhavan premises on Sunday by scaling the rear gate of the party office. But she was nabbed before she entered the building where KTR was holding a meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-attempts-to-trespass-trs-bhavan-taken-into-custody/articleshow/79596538.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man steals Rs 2.71 lakh from grandmother to gamble||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime sleuths on Saturday held Dev Shah, 19, of Sabarmati for stealing Rs 2,71,359 lakh from her grandmother’s bank account over two months. Assistant commissioner of police, Jeetandra Yadav said that the youth had failed in his Class 12 board exams and since then he got into a habit of playing games like PUBG and LUDO and going to Goa for gambling in a casino. “The accused has spent all the money he had siphoned off from the account of his grandmothe, Nimishaben Shah, of Sabarmati,” said Yadav. According to cyber cell sleuths, about three days ago Nimishaben lodged a complaint that since September 27 , 2020 to November 20, 2020, Rs 2,71,359 had been stolen from her bank account. “Our probe revealed that the money was transferred to different bank accounts and PayTM accounts through Virtual Payment Interface (UPI) transactions. Apart from that the complainant’s mobile number which was not working as she had not recharged it, also showed active status,” said a cybercrime official. Police then located the device and reached Dev Shah. “During primary interrogation it came to light that the accused knew about the money in his grandmother’s account,” said Yadav. “To satisfy his need of money for luxury, he put his grandmother’s sim card in another device and recharged it and opened a PayTM account and then linked it with her grandmother’s bank account . Then through UPI transactions he transferred the money to the bank accounts of his friends and associates,”added Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/goa-gamble-grandmas-cash/articleshow/79597953.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 622 new Covid cases, two deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 622 news cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, as the caseload reached 2,73,341 and the toll stands at 1,472. The recovery rate in the state has been on the climb for a while now, improving consistently. The current recovery rate is 96 percent which is better than the country average of 94 percent. The recovery rate indicates the percentage of Covid-19 patients recovering from the coronavirus infection as compared to the persons getting infected. So far, 2,63,744 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection and there are 8125 patients under medication. Of the 622 new cases in the state, the GHMC recorded 104 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-622-new-covid-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/79596560.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: Woman harassed online with fake Instagram account||SURAT: Cyber police booked an unidentified person for allegedly creating a fake Instagram account of a 22-year-old resident Nana Varachha area in May and sharing her morphed images on it. The accused is suspected to have stolen images of the complainant’s original account. The victim came to know only after her relatives informed her that they received a ‘follow’ request from one account that has her photo as profile picture. The accused sent morphed obscene photos of the woman and objectionable messages to many people from the fake account. The woman approached the police to stop the online harassment. After preliminary investigation police registered an offence and started investigation. Police will trace the IP address from which the Instagram ID was created.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-harassed-online-with-fake-insta-account/articleshow/79596576.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||ASI to take up repair work of rain-hit part of Golconda Fort||HYDERABAD: The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is all set to take up repairs of the portions of Golconda Fort which suffered damages in multiple areas due to the heavy rains that lashed the city in October. A team of ASI officials recently inspected the site and floated tenders to take up restoration work of Majnu Burj at Naya Qila, Rani Mahal and Khilwat area within the next four to six months. The inspection of the 500-year-old fort after the rains revealed that the Majnu Burj in the Naya Qila area which houses a massive brass cannon, the steps of the Kingsway and inner fortification wall near the Jagadambika temple have suffered damages. The steps of the Kingsway were used by the Qutb Shahis to ride up on horses to Bala Hissar, which is the top-most point of the fort. As per the details listed in the tender notice, to restore the Majnu Burj, the ASI will first shift the huge cannon, which is of 6 meters length and 0.6 meters outer diameter, from the top of Majnu Burj to ground level to safeguard it from falling by using a suitable 50T capacity crane (on hiring basis) before restoration of the dilapidated (south part) of the bastion. The cannon is said to have been used by Aurangzeb to bombard Golconda Fort in 1687. The Golconda Fort was built by the successive generations of Qutb Shahis who ruled for 160 years from the fort. It is considered an impregnable fortress with multiple rock curtains and has never been conquered, except by treachery. Meanwhile, experts said the areas, especially on the outer side of the fort that are close to the habitations are crumbling and need immediate attention. “We have inspected the area after the rains. Apart from Majnu Burj, there are damages near the temple and there are large cracks on the outer walls that need to be restored immediately. It is very important that these repairs are done before the next heavy rainfall in order to avoid more damages,” said P Anuradha Reddy, Convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). During an earlier interaction, when asked about the other areas of the fort that need protection from not just natural calamities but also vandalisation, the former superintendent archaeologist of ASI Milan Kumar Chauley said, “The fort with a circumference of 7km has just 37 people to look after the entire area. Apart from restoration, we also need more security to safeguard the structure from further damage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/asi-to-take-up-repair-work-of-rain-hit-part-of-golconda-fort/articleshow/79596567.cms||Moulika.KV
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 4 lakh stolen from clothing store||Hyderabad: Thieves gained entry into a clothing store in Banjara Hills on Saturday night and escaped with Rs 4.6 lakh. The incident took place at Jade Blue garments store on Road Number 1, Banjara Hills.  According to Punjagutta Police, the shop management lodged a complaint stating that unknown persons entered the shop on Saturday night and stole Rs 4.6 lakh cash. “There are no signs of any break in. We suspect that someone opened the shutter’s lock using a duplicate key and stole cash from the counter,” Punjagutta DI Nagaiah said. Cops suspect that the accused could be someone who has access to keys of the shop.  Police verified CCTV camera footage at the shop and identified the accused. Cops are in the process of arresting the accused and recovering stolen property from their possession. A case was registered under Section 380 (theft in a building) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-4-lakh-stolen-from-clothing-store/articleshow/79596565.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Covid positive cabin crew flew on Air India Express flight||NEW DELHI: A Covid positive cabin crew of Air India Express was rostered for duty on a Delhi-Madurai sector flight last month. While the airline says the crew member’s test report came after the flight had taken off, some insiders claim that the same had come before the aircraft operated from Delhi and a crew shortage may have led to overlooking the report. “Covid tests are not manda tory for crew before operating domestic flights. The crew member took a test on November 12 as she was to operate an international flight on November 14. On November 13, she was to operate Delhi-Madurai IX 012. The airline received her report on email from the lab at 10.28am on November 13, whereas the flight to Madurai from Delhi took off at 9.55am,” said an airline official. Confirming this, an AI Express spokesperson said the airline is “conducting a detailed investigation in this regard”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-positive-cabin-crew-flew-on-air-india-express-flight/articleshow/79599528.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Man at RGI airport booked for fleeing with jewellery||HYDERABAD: A case was registered against an unidentified man by RGI Airport police after he duped four women by collecting their ornaments on the pretext of helping them overcome personal problems. RGIA police on Saturday afternoon said the four women along with a 16-year-old girl went to a toddy compound, where the accused started a conversation with them. He performed a magic trick and convinced the women that he could conjure money by performing pooja. The women then opened up to him about their financial hardships and sought help. The accused said he can help them by performing a pooja, but it would cost Rs 25,000. When the women said that they could not afford the charge, the accused asked them to give him their sliver anklets, so that he can pledge them for money. “Using this money, he offered to perform pooja, which would help them earn more money. The women said they were not comfortable giving away their anklets for fear that he would flee with them. To which he said they could send the minor girl along with him until he returned with the money,” assistant commissioner of police (Shamshabad Division) Bhaskar said. Officials said he and the minor girl boarded a bus and went to Kukatpally. He asked the girl to wait at a street corner, until he returned with the cash. He then fled the spot. Meanwhile, the women approached the police, who rescued the girl at Kukatpally. The accused is yet to be traced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-fleeing-with-jewellery/articleshow/79596579.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Surat||Promised shrimp farm robs businessman of Rs 77 lakh||SURAT: Olpad police on Sunday arrested a Bhestan resident who duped a businessman of Rs77 lakh promising him coastal land for shrimp farming. While the accused took a total Rs 97 lakh in multiple transactions from the complainant under various pretexts, he failed to return Rs77 lakh, said the FIR. Accused Hardik Patel had even told the complainant Sandip Patel, who runs a shrimp farm, from Bhandariwad Faliya in Mor village near Olpad, that he paid Rs 50 lakh to BJP MLA from Olpad, Mukesh Patel, for the promised land. However, Patel not only clarified that he is not involved in the matter but also submitted an application to the police demanding to register a separate FIR against the accused for naming him as receiver of the money. Accused was produced in a local court which sent him to judicial custody. According to police, the complainant wanted to start a shrimp farms business and a relative introduced him to the accused in 2018. Hardik, who claimed to have good contacts in government offices, offered to provide land for shrimp farms. Meanwhile, in January 2020, while the land was allotted to applicants, Sandip’s name was not there in the list. When he contacted Hardik, the accused told him that he had already paid Rs 50 lakh to the MLA. Sandip then contacted MLA Mukesh Patel directly and was told that he neither received any money nor knows about it. “Sandip came with a recording in which Hardik was claiming that he paid Rs 50 lakh to me. Later I with the help of my friends traced Hardik and questioned him to reveal the truth when he confessed that he was lying,” Mukesh told TOI. “The accused who would loiter in offices of politicians would establish himself as having ‘good contacts’ in the government. He has duped many others in Surat and these people too will approach the police now,” said the complainant. Police arrested the accused and are gathering more evidence to prove charges of the complainant. “Police will thoroughly check evidence and take action based on it,” said Usha Rada, superintendent of police, Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/promised-shrimp-farm-robs-bizman-of-rs-77-lakh/articleshow/79596611.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Three arrested for Halisahar murder||BARRACKPORE: Three FIR-named accused were on Sunday arrested in connection with the brutal murder of BJP booth committee president Swikar Bhawal at Halisahar in North 24 Parganas. The arrested persons were identified as Somenath Ganguly alias Kele Suman, Sudipta Ghosh alias Babai and Suman Saha. The trio,who were booked under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) IPC, have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Trinamool leaders claimed that the murder was the fallout of a personal enmity. On Saturday evening, Bhawal (32), BJP’s 42 No. booth committee president and a resident of Halisahar’s Barendrapally, was beaten to death by some bike-borne miscreants while he was leading a “Griha Samparka Avijan” at Dompara Lane of Halisahar. Six others BJP supporters, who were also seriously injured in the attack, are still undergoing treatment in Kalyani JNM Hospital. On Sunday morning, hundreds of BJP supporters gheraoed the Bijpur police station, demanding immediate arrest of the “masterminds”.The agitators also tried to break the barricades in front of the police station. They scuffled with the cops. RAF and combat force were dep;oyed to bring the situation under control. Saturday’s incident took place when Bhawal, along with other BJP supporters, was distributing leaflets. Around 12 persons, with sticks, rods and weapons came on four motorbikes and attacked them. “My brother (Bhawal) tried to resist them and they dragged him to a field and beat him up. By the time police came, he had fallen unconscious. When taken to hospital, he was declared dead,” said Sagar, Bhawal’s brother. Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh claimed that Trinamool-backed goons killed Bhawal, following instructions from some leaders in Halisahar. The district Trianamool chief and state food minister Jyotipriya Mallick, however, said the murder was the fallout of a rivalry between two BJP factions. “I came to know that the incident took place while two BJP factions clashed over the distribution of leaflets during their Griha Avijan programme. One faction belong to a Trinamool-turned-BJP leader and his son and the other one is led by rival BJP leaders,” he said. Ajay Thakur, DCP, Zone I, Barrackpore commissionerate, said: “The exact motive couldn’t be ascertained. An investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-arrested-for-halisahar-murder/articleshow/79711040.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Covid cases drop in kids but elderly still more prone to virus||BHOPAL: While cases of Covid-19 in the state capital have been on an apparent slow but steady decline since past few days, the number of elderly testing positive has nearly remained the same. In the past seven days, nearly double the number of elderly (aged above 70) compared to young children (aged below 12) have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bhopal. Data from official sources confirms that between November 30 and December 6, a total of 119 elderly people who are aged above 70 years tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. During the same period, 58 kids aged below 12 years tested positive. If compared with the total figure of the new cases reported in the city in past seven days, these two groups (above 70 and below 12 years) constitute nearly 9% of the total cases reported. A total of 2032 new patients were found in the city between November 30 and December 6. Of these 2032 patients, 177 are either aged above 70 years or aged below 12 years. Those aged above 70 years alone constitute around 6% of the total cases reported. Sources said that numbers could be much higher if those aged above 60 years is included in the list. It is noteworthy that as per the government directions, frontline covid-19 workers which includes health staffers and people who are aged above 50 years will be given priority in vaccination once the vaccine for the covid-19 is available in the market. If number of new cases in the city is analysed, more than 30-35% of the people testing positive everyday in the city are those who are aged above 50%. Elderly seem to be more prone primarily because of the increase in movement as restrictions have been eased after lockdown, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-cases-drop-in-kids-but-elderly-still-more-prone-to-virus/articleshow/79596585.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||90-year-old volunteers for Covaxin trials in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Sunday was the seventh day of the ongoing trial of Covaxin, Bharat Biotech’s vaccine for protection against coronavirus in the city. For the past two days, the number of people volunteering for the trials have significantly increased, said sources. Among those who volunteered for trials on Sunday includes a 90-year-old man and a specially-abled couple. Apart from it, teachers, soldiers, retired officials, woman as well students, reached out to the trial site at People’s Medical College and hospital in the city. Sources said following the enthusiasm shown by people on Saturday, the decision was taken to keep the trial going on Sunday too despite it being a holiday. If the response received in past two days continues, the trial is likely to be over in the next 15-20 days. The human trial of the vaccine at Peoples’ Medical College in Bhopal had started on November 28. It continued on Saturday but as Sunday and Monday were holidays it was not done, then trials were done on Tuesday and Wednesday. Again Thursday being a holiday, trials were not conducted and it resumed on Friday. Apart from Peoples’ Medical University, the trial would be conducted at Gandhi Medical College (GMC) as well. The trials were slated to begin at both the places simultaneously, but it was deferred at GMC because ICMR had some issue with the site of the trial. Trials will soon begin at GMC also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/90-yr-old-volunteers-for-covaxin-trials/articleshow/79596624.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Campaign ends in 5 districts, over 24,500 candidates in fray||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The public campaign for first phase of local body polls in five districts ended on Sunday. On Tuesday, 88.26 lakh voters will cast the ballot in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki in the first phase polls. 24,584 candidates are in the fray in local bodies in five districts. Special arrangements for polling have been made this time in view of Covid-19 situation. All polling booths for first phase elections will be disinfected on Monday. The state election commission has procured 9.1 lakh N95 masks and 6 lakh gloves will be distributed for polling officials. 2.2 lakh face shields and 3,000 reusable face shields will also be distributed to polling officials. 2.8 lakh litres of sanitizer will be used in polling booths. These materials will be distributed along with polling materials to officials from the designated centres on Monday. All polling officials have been advised to wear masks during their duty hours and shields whenever they step out of the seat for any purposes. There will be one official with sanitizer bottle at the booth to provide it to voters as they enter the booth and exit after casting their votes. A polling station will have four polling officials, a polling assistant and a police official. The polling officials will stay at the polling booth a day ahead of elections. Disabled voters, those suffering from ailments and elderly voters aged above 70 will be spared the queue. Election commission has warned of strict action against those indulging in sale of liquor in places where its distribution and sale have been banned as part of first phase of local body polls. 48-hour prohibition in all five districts came into effect on Sunday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/campaign-ends-in-5-districts-over-24500-candidates-in-fray/articleshow/79596647.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Vasco-Kulem train to resume from today||Vasco: The passenger train service between Vasco and Kulem is set to start from Monday morning. The train had been stopped after the Covid-19 outbreak. There was a growing demand to restart the train as it is used by office goers and students to travel from one place to another on different routes along the line in South Goa. Officials informed that the train is scheduled to run from December 7 to 16. The response to the service will be seen during these ten days. If officials feel there are sufficient number of travellers then the train service will continue to operate, or else it will be discontinued. The train will start from Vasco station at 7.30am and reach Kulem station at 9.15am. The second train will leave at 5.25pm and reach Kulem station at 7.15pm. Similarly, the train will leave Kulem railway station at 6.30am and touch Vasco station at 8.25am. The second train will leave at 5.10pm and reach Vasco railway station at 7.05 pm. The trains will halt at its regular stops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-kulem-train-to-resume-from-today/articleshow/79598997.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||4 men gang-rape minor, 2 held||A 16-year-old girl taking care of her mother at a Covid-care centre in Shivamogga, Karnataka, was allegedly gangraped by four youths on Saturday. The prime accused — a contractual worker at the facility — had befriended her and would bring her food, police said.He convinced her to go for a car ride on Saturday. There were three other men in the car. They took her to a deserted spot off Shivamogga-Sagar highway and gangraped her. Two accused have been arrested while search is on for the other two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-men-gang-rape-minor-2-held/articleshow/79599529.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||After Tadoba buffer success, solar fencing model to go big||Nagpur: Buoyed by the success of solar fencing of farms in the buffer zone of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), the state government will implement ‘Shiv Crop Protection Scheme’ in Maharashtra and has earmarked Rs100 crore for the same.Talking to TOI on Sunday, forest minister Sanjay Rathod said, “We have demanded Rs500 crore to implement the scheme but as the budget has been slashed due to Covid-19, to start with Rs100 crore has been earmarked for the project. It will be a win-win situation for wildlife and farmers living on the fringes of wildlife parks,” said Rathod.“The scheme will be implemented 75:25 basis on priority based on the crop depredation data in different regions of the state. The state will bear 75% of the cost while 25% will have to be borne by the beneficiaries. We plan to invest Rs2,000 crore in this scheme,” said Rathod.On July 6, 2018, TOI was the first to report about the success of solar fences in TATR buffer. The project was taken up on a pilot basis for nine farmers near Tadoba in 2013-14 under funds from Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Jan Van Scheme. Now, the same will be implemented under Shiv Crop Protection Scheme.“Today, the list of individual beneficiaries has swelled to 3,500 in 50 buffer villages. There is an 80% drop in crop damage cases in the last five years. We have spent Rs3.5 crore on the scheme till now. We have also replaced the battery of solar fences of 1,000 beneficiaries,” said G Guruprasad, deputy conservator of forest (buffer).“There are 79 villages in the TATR buffer and the scheme needs to be replicated in the remaining villages and its implementation has also been approved in corridors. People are keen to take up the scheme but the availability of funds is an issue,” said Guruprasad. As per official data, in 2015-16, TATR paid Rs55.92 lakh towards 1,403 crop depredation cases recorded in 380 hectares. In 2020 (till October), Rs3.47 lakh compensation was paid towards 99 cases in just 14 hectares. “The cattle kills by predators have also gone down to 427 from 681 during the same period,” said Guruprasad.The forest minister admits that in absence of solar fences, people have been resorting to electrifying farm fences which have led to the killing of several animals. “Hence, our idea is to implement the scheme in a big way in the region,” said Rathod.As per the data collected by the NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), in the last five years (2016-2020), at least 17 tigers and 18 leopards have been electrocuted in Maharashtra. Of these, 7 tigers were electrocuted in 2017 alone in the region.“If we extend the solar fence scheme in Bramhapuri and Central Chanda, wild animal deaths can be controlled. When Rathod was in Chandrapur in March, we submitted a memorandum to implement a ‘solar fence on-demand’ scheme for farmers in Vidarbha. Under the scheme government gives Rs10,000 to a farmer while the remaining Rs4,000 has to be paid by him,” said Bandu Dhotre, founder of Eco-Pro, Chandrapur.Farmers who installed solar fences are happy. “Social life has changed for us after solar fencing. We no longer go for night patrolling in farms, called as ‘jagli’ in local parlance. After daylong fieldwork, the fence takes care when wild boars ravage the farms in the night. The DC current flowing from the fence jolts animals for a nanosecond and they run away,” says Abhiman Kodape from Agarzari.TADOBA BUFFER SCENARIOBOX IYear ———————D ————-C2015-2016 ————1,403 —————55.92 2016-17 —————557 —————27.42 2017-18 —————768 —————30.92 2018-19 —————492 —————16.40 2019-20 —————99 —————3.47  (D: Cases of crop damages. C: Compensation in Rs lakh)BOX IISOLAR FENCING BENEFICIARIES 2013-14 ————- 92015-16 ————-1832016-17 ———— 6462017-18————- 6732018-19———— 5632019-2020——- 1,426||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-tadoba-buffer-success-solar-fencing-model-to-go-big/articleshow/79597971.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 7, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: 17,000 police personnel to monitor first phase polling||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief Loknath Behera has said that all arrangements have been made for ensuring conduct of a fool-proof first phase of local body polls to be held on Tuesday. As many as 16,968 police officials have been deployed for security of the first phase of elections. Among these are 66 DSPs, 292 inspectors, 1,338 sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors and 15,272 senior civil police officers and civil police officers. In addition to the police officers, 1,404 home guards and 3,718 special police officers have also been deployed for election duty. All police officials and others on duty will report at the respective polling stations at 6am on Monday, Behera said. The police have divided all the five districts where the first phase of elections are being held, as separate zones. Eight companies of striking force have been kept ready under the state police chief to handle any kind of eventuality. In addition, seven companies of striking force have been deployed under zonal IGs, range DIGs and district police chiefs. The police have estimated that there are 1,722 booths that are sensitive in the first phase, and there would be special surveillance in these booths. The police have created 716 special patrolling teams by bringing up to a maximum of 13 booths under a team. Also, 354 additional patrolling teams have been created by attaching two patrol teams to each of the police stations to ensure law and order. A special election cell under IG P Vijayan has also been formed at the police headquarters for taking necessary decisions in connection with law and order matters during election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/17000-police-personnel-to-monitor-first-phase-polling/articleshow/79596678.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||NHRC seeks report on gas widows’ pension restoration||BHOPAL: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the ministry of law and chief secretary of MP to submit a report over restoration of pension to 5,000 women widowed in the Bhopal gas disaster within four weeks and warned that it would be constrained to issue "coercive process" under Section 13 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, if it is not done. Hearing a petition filed by Hamida Bi, an activist of Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Udyog Sangthan (BGPMUS), the human rights watchdog referred to proceedings in the matter on August 4, 2020, and said it had sought reports on the issue from the Union ministry of chemicals & fertilisers, ministry of law and chief secretary of MP. While the commission is in receipt of a report from the ministry of chemicals, the other two have not submitted their report and said it would be constrained to resort to a "coercive process" if they fail to do it within four weeks while deferring the hearing of the case to January 15, 2021. The NHRC order said, "Pursuant to the directions of the commission, a report dated 09.09.2020 has been submitted by the ministry of chemicals and fertilizers, department of chemicals and petrochemicals, govt. of India. It is reported that with regard to the pension to the widows of the victims of Bhopal gas tragedy, a plan of action with total outlay of Rs. 982.75 crore was submitted by the state government of Madhya Pradesh, including the proposal for earmarking Rs 30 crore for payment of pension at the rate of Rs 1,000 per month for 5,000 widows for five years, which formed part of the social rehabilitation programme. The new action plan with financial implication of Rs 272.75 crore was approved by government of India in June 2010 to be funded by the central government to the extent of 75%, which included payment of pension to the widows. Subsequently, the department of expenditure, ministry of finance, govt. of India, released an amount of Rs 204.56 crore (75%) in July towards 75% share of the central government with the remaining 25% to be funded by the MP government." The report further said in 2016, the MP government had sent a proposal for continuation of pension plan to the widows of Bhopal gas victims under the social rehabilitation programme for a further period of five years. An email dated 04.08.2020 has been submitted by the complainant, who has requested for restoration of pension to the widows of the victims of the Bhopal gas tragedy and enhancement of the same to meet their daily needs. The requisite report has not been submitted by the secretary, ministry of law & justice, govt. of India and chief secretary, govt. of Madhya Pradesh in pursuance to the proceeding dated 07.08.2020. "Let the same be filed within four weeks, failing which the commission would be constrained to issue coercive process U/Sec. 13 PHR Act, 1993," the NHRC said. Meanwhile, on the gas disaster anniversary, the chief minister announced restoration of pension of Rs 1,000 to widows of the gas disaster, but activists say that the pension being offered in not the one which was sanctioned under the 2010 action plan for Bhopal, but instead a social security pension that will be paid by the social justice department. President of Bhopal Gas Peedit Nirashrit Pension Bhogi Manch, Balkrishna Namdeo, said, "It is not the pension which gas widows were receiving, but the state government will add an additional Rs 400 to the social security pension of Rs 600 and give it to the widows. It's a different pension scheme devised by the state government and not the one, whose restoration is being sought." Gas relief minister, Vishwas Sarang, said, "We shall add Rs 400 to the amount of Rs 600 pension given to destitute elderly persons to make it Rs 1000."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nhrc-seeks-report-on-gas-widows-pension-restoration/articleshow/79596664.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 7, 2020||Surat||College girl hangs self in Surat||SURAT: A 20-year-old college girl was found hanging from the ceiling of her residence in Adajan area of the city on Sunday. Police said the deceased, Vishwa Patel, took the drastic step after her engagement was called off. In the suicide note found from her room Patel wrote: ‘I don’t know why I love you. I am doing this with my wish. Don’t harass anyone. I love you mummy and papa.’ Patel was engaged around eight months ago as per her family’s wish. Recently, her engagement was called off. The police are yet to find out as to under which circumstances the engagement was called off. Patel was studying in the last year of BCom in DRB College. Her father, Chandrakant, drives a van for school children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/college-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/79596641.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Gwalior, Orcha inscribed on UNESCO's World heritage list||BHOPAL: Gwalior and Orcha in Madhya Pradesh have been included in the list of UNESCO’s world heritage cities under its urban landscape city programme, according to an official release issued by the government on Sunday. UNESCO's approach to managing historic urban landscapes is holistic by integrating the goals of urban heritage conservation and those of social and economic development. This method sees urban heritage as a social, cultural and economic asset for the development of cities, says its report.  “The Historic Urban Landscape approach moves beyond the preservation of the physical environment and focuses on the entire human environment with all of its tangible and intangible qualities,” according to UNESCO’s official site. It seeks to increase the sustainability of planning and design interventions by taking into account the existing built environment, intangible heritage, cultural diversity, socio-economic and environmental factors along with local community values. This programme focuses on involving more people in preservation efforts, raise levels of awareness, and seek innovative schemes. By actively engaging public, private and civic sectors the city, historic and contemporary, can be better preserved and celebrated. “If dealt with properly, urban heritage will act as a catalyst for socio-economic development through tourism, commercial use, and higher land and property values – thereby providing the revenues out of which to pay for maintenance, restoration and rehabilitation,” according to UNESCO. “Urban heritage areas generate much higher returns than areas devoid of any cultural historic significance. Proximity to world-class monuments and sites usually draws high-end service-sector businesses and residents, who are willing to pay more for locations with prestige and status. This is reflected in land and property values." The 250-plus historic cities that have been included in the World Heritage List deliver very significant socio-economic benefits at the local and national levels - not only through tourism and related goods and services, but also through other functions, it says. UNESCO also claims that “Urban heritage areas often demand enhanced management, because of more and/or stricter regulations controlling and monitoring the built environment, which improves planning and design if properly executed. This, in turn, increases certainty for investors as regards the safety of their investments in the long term”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gwalior-orchha-named-in-world-heritage-cities-list/articleshow/79596675.cms||P Naveen
December 7, 2020||Surat||Surat: SMC set to soon roll out a vaccine programme||SURAT: All arrangements have been made and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) is ready to roll out its Covid-19 vaccination programme soon. According to civic body officials, beneficiaries, vaccinators, and people to be involved in vaccination drive besides storage facilities among others have already been check-listed. “All necessary preparation for Covid-19 vaccination has been done. We have identified 28,000 frontline workers and healthcare staff from 915 institutions like private clinics, hospitals, government run hospitals and urban health centres among others for the first phase of the vaccination programme. We have also prepared a list of health workers (nurses) who will administer the vaccine to the people,” municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani told TOI. SMC has made arrangements for vaccine storage in its 42 Urban Health Centres (UHC) in the city. “The main vaccine centre will be in Adajan in the city where it will first arrive before being distributed to UHCs for vaccination. We have a vaccine storage capacity of 5.34 lakh vaccine in the city,” he added. “We are also in talks with nursing college to enlist its nursing staff and students in this vaccination programme,” SMC official said. Meanwhile, last week’s downward trend in Covid-19 cases in the city continues and for the first time city reported below 199 positive cases on Sunday. Three patients succumbed to the virus on the same day. According to SMC officials, the major concern now is people coming or returning from their native places especially Ahmedabad, North Gujarat and Rajasthan. “We have observed that more Covid-19 positive cases are being reported from those people returning from Ahmedabad, North Gujarat and Rajasthan and our surveillance teams have focused on areas in Athwa and Rander zone where these people reside and are registering high number of cases now. They checked houses which were under locks during Diwali festival period have opened now and the occupants have been asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19,” said an official. On Sunday, Athwa zone reported the highest daily Covid-19 cases with 37 followed by Rander zone with 36 cases. BOX: Covid Meter Surat Total positive cases:33396 Today’s death:03 Deaths: 793 Today’s Discharged: 227 Total discharged:31406 Box: Zone-wise data of Covid-19 cases Zone Cases Athwa 6395 Katargam 5521 Rander 5033 Varachha(A) 3600 Limbayat 3465 Central 3257 Varachha (B) 3163 Udhna 2962||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-set-to-soon-roll-out-a-vaccine-programme/articleshow/79596683.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Surat||Pandemic breaks Patels’ mass wedding tradition||SURAT: In the new normal enforced by the global pandemic, among the many changes some striking changes too have been made including the famed concept of mass weddings solemnized by the Patels to marry off brides and grooms from poor families from the community. While Saurashra Patel Sewa Samaj (Surat) decided to break the tradition of organizing the gala event in a single venue, the events will now shift to respective brides’ individual homes keeping in tune with Covid-19 guidelines. “We will break tradition of mass weddings at one place but organize it towing the guidelines for Covid safety. The first such wedding event will be held on February 28, 2021 and will be held at respective brides’ homes. Each wedding venue will be connected with a central system which will broadcast the ceremony live for other members of their families,” explained Kanji Bhalala, president of Saurashtra Patel Sewa Samaj (Surat). The community organisation provides financial assistance of Rs 20,000 to each participating bride and also helps them avail government schemes like Kunvarbai nu Memeru and Samuh Lagna na Satfera among others. “In the last 37 years, we have been instrumental in organising mass marriages for 5004 couples,’‘ Bhalala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pandemic-breaks-patels-mass-wedding-tradition/articleshow/79596670.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Kila all set to train 22,000 new LSG members online||KOZHIKODE: The Kerala Institute of Local Administration (Kila), which is mandated to undertake the mammoth task of training the nearly 22,000 newly elected representatives in the local bodies of the state to initiate them to the world of decentralized form of governance, will be conducting the training to the members this time via online considering the Covid-19 situation. Kila has already completed the video recording of the first phase training to the new members which will be delivered online by the end of December itself. The first phase training is planned to be held over four days with three-hour training via online daily from 10am to 1pm with the members scheduled to assemble at the panchayat halls. Kila had conducted introductory training after the last election in 2015 in 152 blocks in person, which was followed by two-day residential training in two centres in each district followed by the third phase three-day residential training, all of which was completed within six months after the elections. “We have now designed the first phase training only and it will be conducted in online mode considering Covid-19 protocols in place. The first phase training will introduce the new members to various aspect of public governance, including familiarizing them to the Panchayat Raj Act and Rules,” J B Rajan, associate professor at KILA, said. The decision on conducting the further round of training will be taken later. In the trainings conducted after the 2015 elections, the second phase training had covered the topic Local Body Development Plan and the third phase training was for those included in different standing committee wise, like finance, development, health, education, etc. According to Kila officials, the trainings for newly elected members are vital as large number of youngsters and novices are contesting the polls. “After the last elections, around 65% of the elected members were novices and this time the percentage could be higher going by the candidate profiles, which makes the training vital,” Rajan added. Meanwhile, the institute has invited applications from former members of local bodies to serve as resource persons of the institute. Rajan said that the services of ex-members will be used to provide training to new members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kila-all-set-to-train-22000-new-lsg-members-online/articleshow/79596697.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Waste corp to help plastic cos comply with EPR norms||Panaji: Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has appointed the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) as a Producer Responsibility Organisation (PRO)/Agency for collection and channelisation of plastic waste in an environmentally sound manner on behalf of authorised producers and brand owners. GWMC will have to utilise various plastic waste management processing technologies, as per set guidelines, to help companies achieve their extended producer responsibility (EPR) targets set by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The PRO shall assist producers and brand owners in maintaining their year-wise ‘collect back system’ to comply with EPR norms. To facilitate this, it shall establish collection centers/points and channel partners for collection and handling of plastic waste. Further, it will issue a certificate of registration to companies producing plastic waste. This certificate will be valid for a period of one year from the date of issue, unless it is revoked, suspended or cancelled. “Recycling, recovery or disposal of plastic waste shall be carried out as per rules, regulations and standards of the Central government. The PRO shall have an agreement with producers and brand owners. An application for enewal of registration shall be made 60 days prior to expiry of validity, along with the necessary information and documents as per guidelines issued by the MoEF&CC and CPCB and along with the renewal fees, failing which 50% late fees will be applicable,” GSPCB member secretary Shamila Monteiro said. As per the norms, the PRO will be required to submit an annual progress report to the Board by April 30. The registration of the PRO shall be cancelled if it is found to be involved in any kind of malpractices. Further, any other PRO/Agency interested in getting registered will have to associate with GWMC. The Board will accept only those applications submitted through GWMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waste-corp-to-help-plastic-cos-comply-with-epr-norms/articleshow/79599011.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||No Vid power plant meets even diluted emission norms||Nagpur: Five years after India brought in pollution control norms for coal-fired power plants, only three of the 139 plants have complied with the norms. None of the thermal power plants in Vidarbha have fulfilled the norms. The Union environment ministry has also diluted the emission norms multiple times over these years and delayed deadlines for implementation.Central Electricity Authority (CEA) data analysed by experts shows 139 power plants were to install flue-gas desulphurization (FGD), a technology to control toxic sulphur dioxide emissions. Only three have complied with the standard; Mahadev Prasad Super Thermal Power Plant in Jharkhand, the Mahatma Gandhi Super Thermal Power Project in Haryana, and NTPC Dadri in Uttar Pradesh.In December 2015, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had for the first time notified emission standards for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide (NOx), mercury emissions as well as water consumption limit for thermal power plants. The ministry took the step in view of air pollution caused by the electricity sector.In recent years, norms for almost all the parameters have seen a dilution. From 2.5 cubic metres of water per megawatt-hour (m3/MWh), the water consumption limit was been increased to 3 m3/MWh in June 2018.NOx standards are also getting diluted from the level introduced in 2015. Power plants commissioned between 2003 to 2016 had to bring down the pollutant’s emission level to 300 milligram per cubic metre (mpcm). Now, this limit has been increased to 450 mpcm.Documents obtained under Right to Information (RTI) reveal efforts have started to dilute NOx norms for power plants installed after January 2017 too. According to experts, the dilution is leading to a national crisis.“It looks like all norms under the 2015 notification are being diluted due to pressure by power companies, resulting in negligible or no compliance with the norms supposed to reduce air pollution. This also means air pollution, public health and social welfare are not a consideration when such decisions for dilution or postponement of timeline are taken,” said Sunil Dahiya, analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA).While stating that the country has made good progress in renewable deployment, director of Climate Trends Aarti Khosla said, “The policies on polluting coal power plants have evidently been inadequate, given that just 1% of power plants in India comply with mandatory pollution control norms.”Moreover, the deadline for meeting the norms also keeps getting extended. When the norms first came into place in 2015, the power plants were given two years to comply. Later, this deadline was extended in phases till 2022.For power units in Delhi-NCR region, the initial extended deadline was 2019. In October this year, the deadline has been further extended to 2022 in a staggered manner, despite rising air pollution in the capital region. “Even as air quality levels have reached dangerous levels across large parts of India, power producing companies have repeatedly come up with excuses on costs, or technology, or stringency. As much as it is crucial to show our achievements at the international platform, it is also equally or more necessary to realize the domestic imperatives, including the health of millions of citizens, and take a hard look at stopping any further delays and dilution of emission norms,” added Khosla.“The delays are just to keep supporting the polluting coal, which is not just an environmental, but economic, climatic and social welfare disaster,” said Dahiya.Information5 YEARS BACK AND FORTH- In December 2015, MoEFCC for the first time notified emission standards for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide (NOx), mercury emissions as well as water consumption limit for thermal power plants- Out of 139 plants, only 3 have complied with SO2 norms- Water usage norms diluted in June 2018- NOx norms first diluted for power plants commissioned between 2003-2016- Now, they are being diluted for plants installed after January 2017 too- Deadline to meet norms too being extended repeatedly in staggered manner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-vid-power-plant-meets-even-diluted-emission-norms/articleshow/79597980.cms||Manka Behl
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Babri Masjid demolition anniversary passes off quietly||HYDERABAD: Amid tight security vigil, the 28th anniversary of the demolition Babri Masjid on Sunday passed off peacefully in Old City of Hyderabad. Some shops and business activities remained shut in early hours of the morning but restored as usual by late afternoon. Shops and business were seen as usual in and around the Historical Charminar by the evening. One of the residents from Khilwat area told TOI that they registered protest their opinions peacefully. The Association of Save Waqf properties sought Central and State governments to ensure safety and security of the religious places in the country without any prejudice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/babri-anniv-passes-off-quietly/articleshow/79596694.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Politicos eye SCB polls, await MoD notification||SECUNDERABAD: After the recently-concluded GHMC polls, political parties are now eyeing Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) elections and are eagerly awaiting the election notification from the Ministry of Defence (MoD). However, civic works like underground drainage system, laying of water lines and new CC roads have remained grounded in all eight civilian wards in the Secunderabad Cantonment. To boost the TRS cadre in Cantonment as the party has emerged the single-largest in the GHMC polls, the elected representatives, including TRS cabinet ministers and Secunderabad Cantonment MLAs are attending the stone-laying ceremonies for the sanctioned works and are meeting cadres in the wards. For instance, on Sunday, labour minister Ch Malla Reddy and Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna laid the foundation stone for CC roads in ward-I. The roads will be laid at a cost of Rs 19 lakh. To clear pending works, SCB authorities have sanctioned Rs 2 crore to each ward and have released orders to resume the works in the respective wards ahead of the SCB poll announcement. After the state government had sanctioned Rs 20 crore Cantonment’s share under transfer of property tax (TPT) to the SCB, the Cantonment Board officials sanctioned Rs 2 crore to each ward for the pending works, which were halted for the past two years due to financial crisis. “In view of the flood damage, we have taken up underground drainage works on priority,” SCB ward-VI member Pandu Yadav told TOI. “Facelift of the roads which were damaged in residential colonies due to floods have also been taken up,” said another ward member J Maheshwar Reddy. SCB officials are also gearing up to prepare estimations for the infrastructure like retaining walls on open nalas that were damaged in October floods and culverts that were washed away due to heavy nalas. “The estimations will be placed before the board meeting which is likely to be held by the end of this month,” an SCB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/politicos-eye-scb-polls-await-mod-notification/articleshow/79596701.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 7, 2020||Rajkot||13 violating Covid guidelines booked in Rajkot||RAJKOT: The Amreli district police booked 13 persons for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms and seized 15 vehicles on Saturday. “We caught 13 people for allegedly violating the Covid-19 norms and seized 15 vehicles. The accused have been booked under various sections of the Epidemic Disease Act 1897 and 1860 and Disaster Management Act 2005,” said an official from the Amreli district police. “The accused included five shopkeepers from Amreli, Chalala and Vadia, who were booked for not wearing masks and gathering crowds at their shops without maintaining social distancing,” said the official. Among the accused, also included eight travel operators who were booked in Amreli, Dhari, Vanda, Babra and Savarkundla for accommodating passengers, more than 75% of the seating capacity of their vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/13-violating-covid-guidelines-booked/articleshow/79596005.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kozhikode||Greens: Vote for sustainable development||KOZHIKODE: Greens have issued a public appeal to the people of Wayanad urging them to see through the false promises and the anti-conservation attitude taken by mainstream political parties and to use the franchise in the local body elections towards restoration of ecology and sustainable agriculture in the hill district. Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samithi in its public appeal said that mainstream political parties and candidates have once again approached the electorate with the stale and unreasonable development slogans though their futility have been exposed by the recurring floods, landslides, escalating human wildlife conflicts, etc, in the district. The various political fronts have been deceiving people by their impractical and flawed development concepts like railway line, alternate ghat roads, tunnel road and airport. “The rich agrarian tradition as well as the ecology of the district had been wrecked decades ago and the district has witnessed two back-to-back floods. Around 10,000 hectares are illegally occupied by large-scale plantations and the issues of plantation workers and tribals remain unsolved. The district is also staring at the adverse effects of climate change. But the election manifestoes of parties are silent about these pressing issues,” said N Badusha, president of the Samithi. He said that successive governments have not been able to address the human-wildlife conflict which had been escalating over the last three decades. “People should try to make the mainstream parties realize that what Wayanad needs is sustainable agriculture,” Badusha said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/greens-vote-for-sustainable-development/articleshow/79596762.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS working president KT Rama Rao meets party MLAs||HYDERABAD: TRS working president and Municipal Minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday called upon the party MLAs, newly elected corporators and party cadre to organize rallies and other agitational programmes to make Bharat bandh a success here too. The impact of the bandh should exceed the agitations during statehood agitation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-meets-mlas/articleshow/79596733.cms||Roushan Ali
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Cops conduct patrolling in Maoist belt to take pregnant woman to hosp||Nagpur: A group of cops from Dhodraj Armed Outpost (AOP) and jawans of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) in highly sensitive Bhamragarh taluka of south Gadchiroli launched a ‘short range patrolling’ on Monday into the deep Maoist belt to help a nine-month pregnant woman from a remote hamlet near Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border. The village is amid deep forest without motorable road. The cops ensured that the woman, Sarita Mahaka, 22, was ferried in a private vehicle to the nearest Lok Biradari project hospital at Hemalkasa, 20km from her village Parayanar. The woman delivered within few minutes of reaching the hospital. There had been several instances in the past when pregnant women had succumbed during delivery done at home in the remote hamlets without medical assistance. Sarita was reluctant to visit the hospital as a quack had assured her family of performing a safe delivery at home. The cops, through an intervener, had to cajole the woman and her family into taking their help and stepping out of the village. Assistant PI Balasaheb Dudhal of Dodhraj AOP said the pregnant woman had developed a mental block against clinical delivery as tribals prefer home deliveries even if it may cost their life. “We had to show her reports that appeared in newspapers regarding deaths occurred during home deliveries. Quite a few pregnant women have died during delivery at home, so we are trying to counsel them to take medical help,” he said. Dudhal said there was an ambulance available but it had no fuel. “We had to arrange for a private jeep to transport the woman and her husband to Hemalkasa. She and her baby are doing well after delivery,” he said. He also said the police, under the guidance of SP Ankit Goyal and DIG Sandip Patil, are now taking up innovative steps and working closely with the masses to help grow confidence in the security forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-conduct-patrolling-in-maoist-belt-to-take-pregnant-woman-to-hosp/articleshow/79596742.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Many suffering from acute kidney injuries due to Covid||Nagpur: Many patients who suffered due to Covid-19 have faced acute kidney disorder during or after treatment. The kidney unit in GMCH Nagpur is providing dialysis facility to such patients. Since July, doctors have performed more than 525 haemodialysis on Covid-19 positive patients and cured them. The GMCH has reserved 10 dialysis units of which six are for Covid-19 positive patients. “Considering the experience of Mumbai and Pune, the GMCH brought 10 dialysis machines in May this year. This revival of the kidney unit has benefited hundreds of needy patients,” said GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra. Dr Vandana Admane, who is a part of the team that operates this unit, said that apart from the chronic kidney disease (CKD), a considerable number is of those patients whose kidneys got affected during or post Covid and they need dialysis. Similarly, due to weather change, many kidney patients suffering from pneumonia (non-Covid) are also coming to GMCH for dialysis. Such patients, being non-Covid are admitted in the SARI and other wards and separate units are in service for them. People who are suffering from chronic kidney disease (CKD) are more prone to Covid-19 infection and then developing acute kidney injury. Those who do not have any history of kidney related issue may also develop chronic kidney diseases due to Covid-19. “It’s a well-known fact that Covid-19 affects the functioning of the kidneys. We have studies to support this claim. Kidney disorder of many patients gets diagnosed during Covid-19 treatment. Many develop the same as an outcome of the Covid-19 infection. Some of them need dialysis. An independent unit is a must for such patients,” said senior nephrologist Dr Dhananjay S Ookalkar. As far as Vidarbha region is concerned, patients from the periphery are unaware about their kidney disorder and often neglect it. When such patients get diagnosed with Covid-19 and their condition deteriorates, they are referred to Nagpur where their kidney disorder also gets diagnosed. Due to this, the revived kidney unit in GMCH remains fully occupied even after the peak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-suffering-from-acute-kidney-injuries-due-to-covid/articleshow/79596772.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS will support Bharat bandh: K Kavitha||HYDERABAD: TRS MLC K Kavitha on Sunday said that the ruling TRS will support the Bharat bandh on December 8. Opposing the new farm laws, the TRS leader said that the MSP has not been assured in the new Farm Acts brought out by Narendra Modi-led BJP government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kavitha-trs-will-support-bandh/articleshow/79596766.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Rajkot||One more victim succumbs||Rajkot: One more victim of the Uday Shivanand Covid Hospital fire tragedy in Rajkot died on Saturday night, taking the toll to six. Police said Thavar Maheshweri (66) succumbed to burns at a private hospital on Vidhyanagar Road in Rajkot. Five people were charred to death and one received burn injuries in the tragedy at the ICU of the hospital. The deceased were identified as Keshu Akbari (50), Sanjay Rathod (57), Nitin Badani (61), Ramsinh Loh (62) and Rasik Agravat (69). The blaze in the hospital was suspected to have been caused by a short-circuit. The state government had ordered a probe into the incident, following which the Rajkot taluka police station started the investigation. The police arrested Dr Prakash Modha, his son Vishal Modha, the directors of Gokul Hospital — Tejas Karamata and Tejas Motivaras — and Dr Digvijaysinh Jadeja for gross negligence. All the arrested accused were later released on bail. The accused had taken the hospital on rent to start a Covid hospital in September. The hospital had been closed for the past several years. The hospital is a three-floor hospital. Its ICU is on the first floor. At the time of the incident, there were 33 patients admitted, out of which 28 were rescued by the Rajkot fire brigade. The fire was doused within half an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-more-victim-succumbs/articleshow/79596037.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Jaipur||Active corona cases fall daily for a week in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: For the past one week, the graph of active Covid-19 cases in the state has been going down daily. From 28,758 cases on November 29, which remains the all-time high, the state’s active cases dropped to 22,427 on Sunday. The impact of high number of recoveries can be clearly seen in the drop in the number of active cases. In December, more number of persons recovered from Covid in comparison to daily new infections. While 12,522 persons have been found infected with the virus, 18,431 have been cured. As of now, the recovery rate in December is 147%. “Most of the cases were being reported from Jaipur and Jodhpur. Over the past few days, the two districts have witnessed reduction in daily infections. Its impact is quite clear in the number of active cases falling daily,” said a senior health department official. Meanwhile, 20 persons died and 2,089 others tested positive for Covid in the state on Sunday, bringing the overall tally to 2,80,585. With 20 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,429. Three persons died of Covid in Jaipur, taking its fatalities to 455, while three died in Jodhpur too, taking its casualties to 253. Two deaths were reported from Kota whihc took its fatalities to 147, two people died in Ajmer, taking its casualties to 198. Two died in Pali that took its toll to 95 and two died in Jhunjhunu, taking its toll to 42. Bharatpur reported its 113th fatality, Udaipur 104th, Nagaur 79th, Sriganganagar 39th, Baran 30th and Jaisalmer its 22nd Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (481), Jodhpur (221), Ajmer (105), Kota (101), Alwar (95), Udaipur (91), Bhilwara (81), Nagaur (74), Pali (71), Bharatpur (71), Bikaner (51), Sikar (50), Dungarpur (49), Barmer (47), Baran (46), Chittorgarh (46), Jaisalmer (45), Sriganganagar (44), Hanumangarh (36), Tonk (36), Karauli (35), Churu (32), Rajsamand (30), Bundi (28), Dholpur (21), Jalore (18), Banswara (17), Sawai Madhopur (17), Jhunjhunu (15), Sirohi (15), Jhalawar (10), Pratapgarh (6) and Dausa (4).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-corona-cases-fall-daily-for-a-week-in-state/articleshow/79599015.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||N Uttam Kumar Reddy extends support to bandh||HYDERABAD: Extending an all-out support to the Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers on December 8, Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Sunday appealed to the party MPs, MLC, MLAs, corporators and the cadre to participate in the Bandh and make it a huge success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-extends-support-to-bandh/articleshow/79596779.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kochi||Folk, old movie songs take centre stage||Kochi: Using parodies of hit and popular movie songs as an effective tool to woo voters and intensify election campaign by political parties and candidates has been a trend for years. But, with Covid-19 having affected the release of new movies in all languages for nearly eight months, the unavailability of new movie songs has given a tough time to the election parody song makers. Most of them had to use old movies songs, drama and folk songs to meet the requirements of their ‘political customers’. “The essence and effectiveness of parody lies in the newness and popularity of the song used. Most songs we used this year were from movies that released before the lockdown. Though many movies have release via OTT, only a very few songs like Vathilkale Vellaripravu from Sufiyum Sujathayum became popular. Other songs which had much demand were ‘Kalakatha’ from Ayyapanum Koshiyum and Manamariyunnolu from Porinju Mariyam Jose. Drama and folk songs along with Mappilapattu were widely used this time,” said Abdul Khadar, a parody song maker in Kakkanad, who made over 300 parody songs over the last one month for all political parties. However, parody song makers said that election campaign has given work to many singers, musicians and lyricists whose livelihoods were severely affected by the pandemic. Many new artists have entered parody song making to survive the financial crunch caused by Covid. Besides songs, parody videos too have much demand this time as most candidates are relying on campaign via social media due to Covid restrictions. This has given additional work orders to video editors and graphic designers, who were financially struggling too. Subair Pandallur, who runs a studio in Malappuram, has created nearly 100 pardoy videos for candidates from all over Kerala. Parodies of Moha Mundiri Vaadiya Ravu song from the movie Madhuraraja and the theme music of Comrade from America were widely used. Many artists have teamed up with video editors and graphic designers to lure customers with attractive offers. “I have rented three studios and my team has three lyricists and six singers. Now we are busy with the parody songs to be used after election results are out. These victory songs are made in advance for all parties even though they are unsure of victory,” said Khadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/folk-old-movie-songs-take-centre-stage/articleshow/79596789.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
December 7, 2020||Goa||CCP to rope in agency to crack down on illegally parked vehicles||Panaji: After the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) started clamping four-wheelers and detaining two-wheelers for wrongful parking in the city last month with the help of the traffic police, they will now float a tender for the same so that the task can be assigned to another party. “The drive is continuous, and we now intend to carry it out even on Sundays. We will be inviting tenders from private parties for towing and clamping of vehicles,” said mayor Uday Madkaikar. The crackdown on wrongfully-parked vehicles which was supposed to end on November 30 will continue till the end of this month. TOI had reported that the CCP held a meeting with the traffic cell to take steps to continue the drive through December. While this drive is currently carried out at night, CCP wants the party to carry out the crackdown round-the-clock, after the tender is awarded. “There are clear signs of ‘No Parking’ yet people wrongfully park here. Any vehicles that violate the rules will be clamped or lifted by the CCP along with the traffic police,” Madkaikar said. In the drive, vehicles are picked up by the traffic cell and CCP from the Patto-Fontainhas stretch at Joao Castro road, on either side of the Adil Shah Palace and near Mhamai Kamat House. The crackdown is being carrie out after casinos resumed operations recently after the lockdown. Several residents in the vicinity have complained of their gates and main doors, besides the footpaths and lanes, being blocked due to irresponsible parking by motorists. Among the vehicles picked up were private four-wheelers, rent-a-bikes parked by tourists and two-wheelers parked by casino staff that were wrongfully parked in the area. Recently, a Karnataka-registered official vehicle of the president of the Nipani municipal council was also clamped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-to-rope-in-agency-to-crack-down-on-illegally-parked-vehicles/articleshow/79599019.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||CM KCR pays tribute to Ambedkar||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday paid tribute to BR Ambedkar on his death anniversary on Sunday. Recalling the outstanding services of Ambedkar to the country, CM KCR said Ambedkar’s philosophy, thoughts and lofty ideals continue to inspire and give strength to the people of the country. Telangana government had taken up several programmes and initiated many welfare measures that were in tune with Ambedkar’s philosophy, KCR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-kcr-pays-tribute-to-ambedkar/articleshow/79596800.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||Tourists resisting scanning in Nainital, say officials||DEHRADUN: The officials of the health department in Nainital claimed they had a difficult time following the state government's direction of scanning persons coming from outside Uttarakhand as 90% of the visitors refused to either be screened or undergo a test on Sunday. The officials of the health department said they will now seek help from the local administration and city police to ensure that people get screened and tested before entering the lake town. A day before, TOI had reported that the health department, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, has decided to scan persons coming from outside Uttarakhand at the border points in Nainital. The exercise was expected to start from Sunday and all symptomatic visitors were also supposed to be tested for the virus on the border itself. “Our team consisted of a doctor and civic body volunteers. When they attempted to stop those in cars that were not from Uttarakhand, around 90% of the tourists resisted to even get screened thermally. Most of them were from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. Even our staff failed to convince them as they cited state’s unlock guidelines and started arguing,” said Dr KS Dhami, medical superintendent of the BD Pandey Hospital at Nainital. The official added that the matter will be shared with the district administration in the review meeting scheduled on Monday. “We will not be able to manage screening and testing without police and administration helping us,” he added. Meanwhile, with 424 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Sunday, the total tally of cases reached 77,997. According to the health department, the state has tested 93,531 samples in the last one week, which is the highest sample testing so far. Also, with four deaths reported on Sunday, the fatality toll of the virus shot up to 1,285. “The death rate in the state is 1.65% as against the national average of 1.45%. We have reported 3,622 cases in the last one week and with this, the active cases crossed the 5,000 mark after six weeks in the state,” said Anoop Nautiyal, founder of the NGO, Social Development for Communities Foundation Among the 424 Covid-19 cases reported from the state on the day, Dehradun recorded the highest of 171, followed by 59 cases in Haridwar, 40 in Nainital, 28 in Pauri, 28 in Pithoragarh, 20 in Udham Singh Nagar, 19 in Chamoli, 16 in Tehri, 13 in Rudraprayag, nine each in Uttarkashi, Almora, and Bageshwar, and three in Champawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourists-resisting-scanning-in-nainital-say-officials/articleshow/79596034.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Post Covid rehabilitation should start from Day 1 of recovery||Nagpur: Many patients in serious or very serious condition are recovering from Covid-19 in Maharashtra, as the worst ended in September, and the pandemic is now entering the ‘day after’ phase. Many of these recovered persons might now be at risk of long-term impairment and disability. Early research has shown that Covid-19 recovered patients need rehabilitation after all phases of the disease, including acute, post-acute and long-term. TOI spoke to rehabilitation expert Dr Ravi Wankhede, who has done his MS and PHD on the subject from the USA, and is now leading Central India’s first of its kind wellness clinic dedicated entirely to the cause of rehabilitation. “It’s a common practice in India that patients straightaway reach homes post discharge, and try to resume their daily routine. However, many Covid-19 patients are now suffering from lung fibrosis, some from stroke, and some from kidney problems. These can be avoided, or intensity can be reduced, if they start rehabilitation right from Day 1 of their discharge,” said Dr Wankhede. He said there are just a few known long-term outcomes of Covid-19, and there must be many unknown effects too. In such condition, rehabilitation activity becomes very important post Covid. Access to rehabilitation helps in developing strength, decrease the consequences of disease or injury, improve health and add quality to life. Doctors also said that older people are at higher risk of more severe illness post Covid. It’s very much evident from the recent deaths of elderly people due to post Covid complications. Rehabilitation can be beneficial to maintain prior levels of functionality and independence of such people. Risk of stroke is higher in patients as young as 34 years, as the blood viscosity increases three times as a result of Covid-19. Stroke can be avoided in many patients if they follow post Covid rehab programme. AIIMS Nagpur has also started a post Covid rehabilitation regime. Currently, it is managed collaboratively with department of medicine, psychiatry, physiology and physiotherapy. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PMR) department is also coming out with post-Covid rehabilitation programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/post-covid-rehabilitation-should-start-from-day-1-of-recovery/articleshow/79596792.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||FIR for murder filed against three persons for death of RTI activist who exposed SC/ST scam||HARIDWAR: An FIR for murder has been filed against two associates of RTI activist Pankaj Lamba and one unidentified person for his death on Friday night at Tehri Visthapit colony falling under Ranipur police station on the outskirts of Haridwar. The 50-year-old was killed in a freak incident at a party, when he showed his licensed pistol to a 16-year-old and she is believed to have accidentally fired, fatally hitting Lamba in the neck. The activist had blown the lid off Uttarakhand’s SC/ST scam, estimated to be over Rs 350 crore. Lamba’s wife Jyoti and brother Arun insisted it wasn’t an accident but “a carefully-crafted murder.” It was on Jyoti’s complaint that the FIR was filed. According to her, Lamba’s friends Manav and Kasim came to their house on Friday and asked the activist to stop a "theft underway at his plot of land". Pankaj Lamba had thereafter left with them. The three were later said to be present at a party at the residence of the minor girl who is alleged to have accidentally fired the shot. Arun Lamba told police that his brother had received a threat just two days ago from the mining mafia active in the area. Station house officer (SHO) Ranipur police station Yogesh Dev told TOI, “A case has been registered against Manav, Kasim and an unknown person, based on Lamba’s wife’s complaint under sections section 302 (murder) and section 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. An investigation is on.” Haridwar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S had told TOI on Saturday that liquor bottles and food had been recovered from the crime scene. The evidence will be sent for investigation through court on Monday. Lamba had filed several RTIs on the basis of which a special investigation team (SIT) had been formed on the orders of the HC to investigate siphoning off of funds meant for SC/ST students in the state. Owners of many colleges, besides officers of the social welfare department have been arrested so far by the SIT in connection with the scam. Between 2011-12 and 2016-17 — before the scam was uncovered — the social welfare department is believed to have released over Rs 7,200 crore as scholarship money for SC/ST students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fir-for-murder-filed-against-three-persons-for-death-of-rti-activist-who-exposed-sc/st-scam/articleshow/79596053.cms||MS Nawaz
December 7, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha LP school holds mock election for students||ALAPPUZHA: A government school in a sleepy village in Alappuzha turned a new page in raising civic-minded children. It conducted a model election- ‘Kutty Angam’- in order to make students aware of the importance of elections and help them learn how they are held. The elections were conducted at the Government LP School in Kadakkarappally with students from nursery classes to Class IV participating in it. As many as 280 students out of the total 312 in the school took part in the polls and the results will be announced on December 11. James Antony, one of the teachers behind the initiative said children took part in the event with great interest. “They campaigned with gusto and sought votes from their classmates. We had announced on November 29 that an election will be held and that interested students can submit their nomination papers. At least four to six students from each division submitted their papers through WhatsApp,” said Antony. The candidates were allotted parrot, bus, airplane and flower symbols. Students made videos for campaigning. A candidate who got the flower symbol wore flowers and made a video of her dance. Another candidate made a video of him making a toy bus. The ballot papers were sent through WhatsApp which were downloaded. The students had to mark a ‘cross’ on one the symbols to cast their votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alappuzha-lp-school-holds-mock-election-for-students/articleshow/79596827.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Rs 7.5 crore returned by Delhi cops to owners in 6 months||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has returned over Rs 7.5 crore in cash along with other case properties to their rightful owners in the past six months. These articles were lying in its custody for the past several years. The returned stuff include gold and silver ornaments, vehicles, mobile phones, laptops, PCs, CCTVs, etc, which were of no use while kept in police custody for years till the trial was over. According to Delhi Police spokesperson, DCP Eish Singhal, the goods were returned as part of special drives launched by police commissioner SN Shrivastava. The top cop had reviewed the system and launched this initiative on June 1 this year and instructed all 15 district DCP and respective police station chiefs to take steps in this regard. “Regular special drives have been accordingly launched since then and they have yielded noticeable results,” Singhal added. To carry out this drive, police needed the court’s nod as well. So, requests were made by the SHOs to the Metropolitan Magistrates concerned under Section 451 CrPC to hand over the case property to their rightful owners. “The drive included return of valuable articles, such as gold or silver ornaments, or articles studded with precious stones. Similarly, vehicles, mobile phones, laptops, PCs, CCTVs, etc were also returned, after completing the necessary formalities as per law, to their rightful owners,” the spokesperson added. Giving details of the items returned till now, police officers said that between June 1 and November 5, Delhi Police returned Rs 7,55,62,133 in cash. “Additionally, jewellery weighing around 3,795 grams recovered in different cases was also handed over to their rightful owners. This included 422 items of gold jewellery, six pieces of diamond jewellery and 431 silver jewellery,” Singhal further said. Apart from this, 5,299 two-wheelers, 280 TSRs and 869 four-wheeler vehicles were also returned to their rightful owners. “As regards the electronics items, 3,980 mobile phones, 121 laptop/PC/CCTV and 1,931 other miscellaneous items were recovered and handed over to their owners. In total, 12,567 goods were disposed off and returned to their owners,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rs-7-5cr-returned-by-cops-to-owners-in-6-months/articleshow/79598019.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Man-animal conflicts on the rise in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The increasing number of man-animal conflicts in Telangana have resulted in the killing of two youngsters in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district within 20 days, leaving both villagers and officials in a constant fear that, if left unresolved, the issue can drive communities to extremes. While the forest department is taking all necessary measures to keep the villagers as well as the tigers safe, to ensure there is no targeted killing of the wild animal, the large-scale encroachment of forest cover in the past few years gives an alternate view pointing out reasons behind human deaths and rejecting “stories” that project big cats as “man-eaters”. As per official records, around 38,000 hectares of forest lands have been encroached in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad alone, where the recent tiger killings took place. “We have asked the villagers to go to their fields in groups and not take their cattle inside the forest for grazing. The forest staff themselves who are on the job of tracking the animal have been given whistles to blow if they sense any danger close by,” said Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district forest officer S Shantharam. He further said, “It is estimated that about 50% of the forest cover has been occupied. Also, the agriculture fields that have come up in the forest area are located in tiger corridors and their paths, which puts villagers working in these fields more prone to attacks.” The latest tiger attack and death reported in a cotton field near Kondapalli village was located in the encroached two-acre land inside the forest. “Tigers are territorial animals. They only attack if they feel threatened. The encroachment of forest land results in habitat stress which leads to man-animal conflicts. It is very rare that tigers become man-eaters,” a forest official stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-animal-conflicts-on-the-rise-in-telangana/articleshow/79596812.cms||Moulika.KV
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||Lawyers from across the country write to U’khand HC, ask court to take suo moto note of move to denotify Shivalik Elephant Reserve||Dehradun: In the wake of the state government proposing the felling of more than 10,000 trees in the Shivalik Elephant Reserve for the expansion of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport, more than 85 lawyers from different parts of the country have now urged the Chief Justice (CJ) of the Uttarakhand high court (HC) to intervene in the matter and protect the Himalayan state’s lone elephant reserve. The lawyers, who are from different high courts across the country, urged the Uttarakhand high court to “take suo moto cognisance of the entire situation in interest of the natural environment and conservation of wildlife and further quash the thoughtless decision of the Uttarakhand State Wildlife Board to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve and restore the protection granted to the habitat and corridors of the wild Indian Elephants in the state of Uttarakhand.” The lawyers said that they felt “deeply disturbed and concerned about the reckless decision of the state wildlife board to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve for the purpose of developmental activities and expansion of Jolly Grant Airport.” The letter adds that in 2018, a division bench of the Uttarakhand high court in Narayan Dutt Bhatt vs Union of India and Ors Writ Petition accorded the status of ‘legal person or entity’ to animals in the state, saying, they have a distinct persona with corresponding rights, duties and liabilities of a living person. “The court also declared all Uttarakhand natives the guardians of animals and endowed them with the duty to ensure their welfare and protection.” The letter further say that the state government’s decision is “hasty and short-sighted and is taken without due consideration for the natural environment and wildlife conservation despite the current challenges like climate change and rapidly rising pollution”. The petition was initiated by advocate Saumya Tandon, who, till the time of filing this report, had secured support from 86 lawyers. Meanwhile, Dehradun-based senior advocate and social activist Reenu Paul said, “In Uttarakhand, elephants are systematically being restricted to a limited area so that mining, tourism, religious tourism, and other developmental projects can be pushed forward. The denotification is being done by the government according to an agenda. The elephant reserve is spread in eleven forest divisions, which means a lot of developmental activities are getting 'hampered' due to elephants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lawyers-from-across-the-country-write-to-ukhand-hc-ask-court-to-take-suo-moto-note-of-move-to-denotify-shivalik-elephant-reserve/articleshow/79596066.cms||Shivani Azad
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||PhD scholar bags Canadian fellowship||Vadodara: A PhD scholar of M S University’s Department of Clothing and Textiles of Faculty of Family and Community Sciences (FFCS) has been awarded a fully-funded MITACS accelerate scholarship. MITACS is a Canadian network of centers of excellence that supports research-based innovation and works closely with industry, academia and government in Canada. Under guidance of FFCS dean professor Anjali Karolia, the research scholar Ankita Shroff had received Indo-Canadian Shastri research student fellowship in 2019 on the basis of which she worked at University of Alberta’s Department of Human Ecology for a semester. Her research work aims to develop an antimicrobial and insect-repellent fabric that can preserve museum textiles from deterioration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/phd-scholar-bags-canadian-fellowship/articleshow/79595863.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Bajrang Dal heckles inter-faith couple, cops book ‘groom’, kin||BAREILLY: A woman, 22, and a Muslim man, 24, who were living together for the last five months and had come to a court in Moradabad’s Kant town to get their marriage registered, were heckled and hauled to a nearby police station by Bajrang Dal men who also told her that UP’s new ‘love jihad’ law was brought for "women like her". A day after the incident, the man, Rashid, and his brother were booked on Sunday under the new law and sent to jail. Police have turned down the request to share a copy of FIR, saying it will be "available soon". The woman, all this while, kept on asserting that she was an adult and married. In one of the videos recorded at Kanth police station, she can be seen showing a copy of the ‘nikahnama’, suggesting that she was already converted and married according to Muslim customs. The woman was also seen showing a copy of an advertisement in a newspaper as evidence that she had also changed her name in keeping with official rules. The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, nullifies a marriage if it is done for religious conversion. But it is not likely to apply retrospectively-- in cases where the religious conversion took place before the law came into force. Supreme Court lawyer Shobha Gupta told TOI, "This law is not retrospective and section 1, sub section 3 of the ordinance clarifies the same." Senior police officers refused to comment on it. They said that the FIR against the man and his brother was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s mother on Sunday. "We have registered the case on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s mother, and also after an initial probe. It is not final. If we get something new we will act accordingly," said Vidya Sagar Mishra, additional SP (rural). "The FIR is registered under section 3 and 5 of the anti-conversion law. The woman’s statement will soon be recorded in court. She is kept at Nari Niketan so that no one influences her," the police officer said. Rajesh Kumar, Bajrang Dal leader, said, "We came to know that a man from another community has come with a woman for conversion and registration of marriage. We followed them and informed police for taking action as per new law." The woman, unperturbed by the Bajrang Dal men, had told media persons on Saturday evening that she got married to Rashid on July 24 in Dehradun. But she was constantly being shouted down by the men in saffron. "Show us the permission you have from the district magistrate to convert your religion," one of the men told the woman. While another member of the outfit said, "‘Iska to keval nikah hua hai (She has only been married according to Muslim customs)." In another video, a Bajrang Dal member was seen snatching a set of files that the woman was handing over to a lady constable. But the constable was quick to take it back and slam the man. Station house officer (SHO) of Kanth police station, Ajay Gautam, told TOI, "We have acted on the complaint given by the girl’s mother."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/right-wing-group-forcibly-separates-interfaith-couple-at-marriage-regn-office-man-sent-to-jail-woman-shelter-home/articleshow/79596079.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||Camera traps, cages to capture man-eater tiger||Hyderabad: As part of measures to deal with the man-eater and reduce human-animal conflict, Telangana forest department is in the process of procuring radio collar for tracking the man-eater tiger in the event of capturing it and later releasing it into the forest again. Radio collar helps track the tiger for months. Telangana forest department wildlife wing officials said the field director of Kawal wildlife sanctuary was asked to procure a radio collar and around Rs 2 lakh has been put at the official’s disposal. A forest department official said, “We will set up an antenna in a vehicle and track it. We get a beep when the animal is in close range. The radio collar works for a year-and-half depending on its battery life. The collar will drop off after that. When it kills a cattle, it will sit and eat for two hours. It is easy to identify i.,” Forest officials have identified 160 locations in the tiger corridor of Asifabad district where the tiger might move on established tracks. The tiger corridor has six to eight tigers. Around 150 cameras each from Khagaznagar and Jannaram are to be used for the tracking the big cats. Forest department would be preparing digital albums of the tiger for all future reference. Principal chief conservator of forests R Sobha said, “Our field staff is collecting fresh scat from Asifabad and sending them to CCMB for tests. We will compare camera trap images also.” Foresters said that pugmark is not a foolproof method, but DNA and camera trap images would help in identifying the problematic tigress. Foresters have already set up two cages each in Digida, where the first human kill happened, and Penchikalpet, where the second kill was reported. Tranquillising experts from Hyderabad and Warangal zoo would be roped in. “In case of any spotting, we will rope in experts from the zoo,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/camera-traps-cages-to-capture-man-eater-tiger/articleshow/79596839.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 7, 2020||World||Britain and EU resume trade talks in ‘final throw of the dice’||Britain and the European Union will make a last-ditch attempt to strike a post-Brexit trade deal this week, with probably just days left for negotiators to avert a chaotic parting of ways at the end of the year. Ireland’s PM, whose country would face more economic pain than any of the other 26 EU member states in the case of a “no deal”, cautioned against over-optimism, putting the chances of an agreement at only 50-50. British PM Boris Johnson and European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen spoke over the weekend to get their teams back to the negotiating table after talks stalled on three thorny issues. They are due to hold another call on Monday evening in the hope that, by then, stubborn differences over fishing rights in UK waters, fair competition —referred to as the level playing field — and ways to solve future disputes will have narrowed. “This is the final throw of the dice,” said a British source close to the talks before they resumed in Brussels on Sunday. Irish PM Micheal Martin struck a gloomy note. “My sense, having spoken to some of the key principals, is that it is a very challenging issue to resolve, particularly around the level playing field... Things are on a knife edge here and it is serious,” he told national broadcaster RTE. Since Britain formally left the EU on January 31, negotiators have missed several deadlines for a deal with the world's largest trading bloc before a status quo transition period ends on December 31. EU negotiator Michel Barnier will brief EU countries’ ambassadors to Brussels on the state of play on Monday and talks are expected to continue through the day ahead of another check-in by Johnson and von der Leyen. If there is no deal, a five-year Brexit divorce will end messily just as Britain and its former EU partners grapple with the severe economic cost of the Covid-19 pandemic. British farming minister George Eustice said the country had made extensive preparations for a no-deal and was ready for it. Mairead McGuinness, Ireland’s commissioner on the EU's executive, said the next 48 hours were “very crucial”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/britain-and-eu-resume-trade-talks-in-final-throw-of-the-dice/articleshow/79599537.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||No bail for riot accused, Delhi court says role clear||NEW DELHI: Stating he was part of an unlawful assembly, a Delhi court denied bail to a riot accused even though he had cited that he was quite young and had familial responsibilities. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat dismissed the bail plea of one Mehfooz Raza, observing that he had not only actively participated in the rioting, but also the actions of other accused clearly illustrated his role in the unlawful assembly. The order further noted: “The cloth worn by the accused on the day of the incident and the stick were recovered. His mobile phone was recovered, seized and sent for expert opinion in order to retrieve deleted data.” Raza’s counsel argued that his client was framed in the case after the main culprit fled from the spot after the riots despite the fact that he was neither a member of the unlawful assembly nor did he participate in any illegal act. The prosecutor contested the relief plea stating that the accused was involved in a case of murder of a man named Aaman who succumbed to gunshot wounds on February 25. Raza, he said, was identified from video clips and named by other accused persons. “His presence was also established at the spot as per his phone location. His worn cloth and stick seen in videography was recovered at his instance,” it was argued. The court, therefore, held, “In view of the gravity of the offence, the role attributed to the accused and the material against him, this is not a fit case at all to grant bail to the accused Mehfooz Raza. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-bail-for-riot-accused-court-says-role-clear/articleshow/79598129.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||APPCB calls for public hearing on uranium project expansion||HYDERABAD: Due to concerns of the impact on the health of locals as a result of groundwater contamination by existing uranium iron ore mining in Tummalapalle of Kadapa district, the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) has issued a notice for a public hearing. Uranium Corporation of India Limited (UCIL) is planning to expand uranium mining with Rs 720 crore in 973 hectares in Pulivendula constituency of Kadapa. The constituency is represented by Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The proposed expansion will take place in Meedipentla, Velpula, Tummalapalle, Mabbuchintalapalle, Bhoomaiagaripalle, Rachakuntapalle and KK Kottala villages in Vemula mandal.  The public hearing for environmental clearance will be conducted on January 6, 2021, at Tummalapalle in Vemula mandal, Kadapa. UCIL has proposed to increase the uranium ore production from 9 lakh tonnes per annum (TPA) to 13.5 lakh TPA with the expansion. Retired scientists oppose the move, stating APPCB has to act in the public interest. Retired chief scientist Dr K Babu Rao said, “Even after the violations became evident, APPCB have preferred to look the other way instead of protecting the people and the environment. None of the violations has been amended, and the study sponsored at IIT Madras is not released yet. APPCB is allowing expansion.” In 2019, a PCB appointed expert committee observed that the farmers of surrounding villages around the tailing pond reported stunted growth of groundnut crop and banana. “Uranium concentration in the borewell is in much higher limits, ranging from 690 ppb (parts per nillion) to 4,000 ppb, whereas the permissible limit is 60 ppb,” the report said. APPCB later asked UCIL to commission studies by SVIMS for health studies, Banana Research Centre (Trichy) for studying withering of banana plantation and National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) for geophysical studies. Activist Kakumanu Jayashree said, “KK Kottala and six other villages surrounding the tailing pond spread over 200 acres, where the slurry waste effluent of uranium mining is dumped, are affected.” UCIL maintained data collected over the years do not reflect any significant increase of any of the pollutants. UCIL says that the area falls in metasediments of Cuddapah basin with predominant dolomitic nature of the rock that contains carbonates of calcium and magnesium. UCIL general manager M Srinivasa Rao said, “There is no contamination of water, air or ground due to our tailing pond or mining. The farmers are digging deep bore-wells and touching natural ore and salt formations due to which the levels are seen in water. Tailing pond has nothing to do with it.” He added UCIL provided several jobs in the past two years and also conducted medical camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/appcb-calls-for-public-hearing-on-uranium-project-expansion/articleshow/79596854.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 7, 2020||Goa||Govt invites logo designs for 60th L-Day||Panaji: As a part of 60th Goa Liberation Day of Goa, the state government has decided to hold a unique logo contest to commemorate the year-long celebrations. The logo is aimed at creating a distinct identity which will be displayed on every correspondence of the Goa government. The contest is open only for people of Goan origin. Participants can design the unique logo and submit it on email goalogo60@gmail.com along with individual details such as name, address, mobile number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-invites-logo-designs-for-60th-l-day/articleshow/79599105.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Loan defaulters show themselves as MC employees||LUDHIANA: The civic authorities have received a complaint from bank officials about defaulters who took loan by showing themselves as MC employees but did not return the amount later. After receiving the complaint when civic body officials checked the records, half of the names in the list were of those who were not working with the MC. Now, the matter has been brought to the knowledge of mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal for further investigation. As per information, some bank officials had raised the matter with joint commissioner Swati Tiwana at the zone B office. They handed over a list of 60 persons who had sought loan from the bank while submitting their identity cards and salary slips. When names in the list were cross-checked, it was found that half of them were not working with the civic body. The joint commissioner took the matter seriously and submitted a report to Sabharwal. The MC commissioner said he was not aware of this report as it was yet to reach him. He said he would comment only after reading it. However, the joint commissioner could not be contacted for her comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/loan-defaulters-show-themselves-as-mc-employees/articleshow/79596880.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||For improving swachhta rank, MC to hold contests||LUDHIANA: For the involvement of residents in Swachhta Survekshan and mass-level public awareness, the civic body will be organising various types of competitions through social media in which winners will get certificates. These competitions will also help the MC to get marks in Swachhta Survekshan-2021, which is expected to take place in January next year. The officials are now stressing upon more public involvement in the survekshan because at the time of field visit by teams public awareness will also be checked. Through these competitions the residents can take part in drawing, songs, jingles, street plays, short videos and murals. The civic body officials have offered topics like clean environment, ban on plastic, home composting, reduction in air pollution, impact of Swachh Bharat Mission, open defecation-free city, two separate bins, invention from scrap, garbage free city and onw with four Rs (reduce, refuse, reuse and recycle). One of the civic body officials claimed that registration for taking part in this competition was started on December 4 and by December 9 people could participate in the same while on December 10 they would declare the results. He said it carried 40 to 50 marks in Swachhta Survekshan and it would help them in getting good ranking in the survekshan this time. He said many competitions were already going on at other platforms. A resident of Dugri, Phase 3, Apinder Sodhi, however, advised the civic body to first perform its duty towards the city and then organise such events. She said, “Swachh Ludhiana is an oxymoron. Every few yards is a garbage heap. First, install a system of garbage collection and disposal and only then have senseless competitions, which are not going to make the city clean in any way.” She said the MC’s own system was not in order and they were thinking that through such competitions the city would look clean. Another resident from the Civil Lines Kamal Verma said they had started doing segregation of waste at home and were giving the garbage to waste collectors in segregated form but collectors used to mix the segregated waste while throwing it into a rehri. Now, even they have stopped doing the same. So, before asking people to do any such thing, the civic body should educate its own staff about the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/for-improving-swachhta-rank-mc-to-hold-contests/articleshow/79596884.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Undertrial prisoner dies in jail||Coimbatore: A 44-year-old undertrial prisoner died in the Coimbatore Central Prison on Sunday.Ravi alias Arakkan Ravi, of Annai Sandhya Nagar near Agraharam in Erode district, was arrested in connection with a theft in October. A habitual offender, he was wanted for several thefts and burglaries. He was lodged in the Bhavani sub-jail initially before shifted to Coimbatore.“His cellmates had found Ravi loitering around 2am. When asked about the unusual behaviour, Ravi said that he was feeling uneasy as he was suffering a heartburn. While the inmates were watching, he collapsed on the floor and became unconscious,” a prison official said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/undertrial-prisoner-dies-in-jail/articleshow/79598148.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Positivity rate at three-month low, least number of Covid cases in 48 days||NEW DELHI: In a promising sign that indicates ebbing of the third and deadliest wave of Covid-19, Delhi recorded 2,706 fresh cases, the lowest in 48 days, with a positivity rate of 3.68%, which is the lowest in more than three months. Sunday not only recorded a positivity rate below 5% for the fourth consecutive day, but also a dip of 75.8% compared with 15.2% recorded a month ago on November 8, which was considered the peak of the third wave. The new cases came from 73,536 tests carried out in the past 24 hours, including 32,023 of RT-PCR. Low figures were last recorded on October 19 with 2,154 cases and a positivity rate of 5.9%. However, it was a Monday and only 36,445 tests had been conducted on the previous day. The last time fresh cases were lower on a working day was 63 days ago on October 4. There were 2,683 cases out of 50,832 tests with a positivity rate of 5.3%. “I’m glad that the third wave seems to be getting weak. Delhi fought a very difficult war against corona,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday evening. Health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted: “Positivity rate in Delhi today has fallen down further to 3.68%. Delhi is emerging victorious in this war against the virus. I would request you all to continue following the three commandments — mask, social distancing and sanitisation! Be safe, Delhi.” On November 8, Delhi had recorded 7,745 new cases, the highest single-day spike till then with a positivity rate of 15.2%, which was considered the peak of the third wave. Although 8,593 cases were recorded on November 11, the highest single-day spike till then, November 15 recorded a higher positivity rate of 15.3%. Since then, both the number of cases and positivity rate have been gradually declining. In the last one month, the number of active cases have come down by 41% — from 41,857 on November 8 to 24,693 on Sunday. Of these, 15,276 patients are recuperating in home isolation. On November 14, Delhi had recorded the highest number of active cases (44,456) on any given day. The number of active cases have been dipping constantly because the number of patients recovering has been more than new cases for nearly a fortnight. On Sunday too, new cases were 2,706 and recovered patients were 4,622. The dip in cases has also brought a much-needed reprieve for the healthcare infrastructure. On Sunday, out of 18,814 Covid beds in hospitals, 12,669 (67.3%) were vacant. On November 8, there were 16,027 Covid beds and in the last 30 days, Delhi government has added 2,787 beds. A month ago, only 49.6% of beds were vacant. The situation improved only by the last week of November. The situation of Covid ICU beds was worse a month ago with 1,261 (80.9%) with ventilators and 1,641 (80.2%) out of 2,044 without ventilators being occupied on November 8. On Sunday, nearly 69% of ICU beds with ventilators were occupied, while 51.7% of ICU beds without ventilators were occupied. In the last one month, the number of ICU beds with ventilators have gone up from 1,261 to 1,531, an increase of 21.4%. The number of Covid ICU beds without ventilators have gone up from 2,044 to 3,536, an increase of nearly 73%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-at-three-month-low-least-number-of-cases-in-48-days/articleshow/79598237.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Men worse sufferers in Covid than women||Nagpur: Covid-19 case fatality rate (deaths out of positive cases) is high among males compared to females in the district. As per data from Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the district registered 1,11,765 positive cases of novel coronavirus till November 30. Of these, 3,672 died giving a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.29%. Among positive cases, 67,756 or 60.62% were males while number of female patients was 44,009 or 39.38%. Experts say men are more exposed to the disease as they usually venture out of home more. Also, women take better care of personal hygiene and are more sensitive towards changes in their health and also take more precautions, as per experts. It is evident from age data too. In age group of 0-15 years, 3,980 (54.58%) of 7,292 patients were male and 3,312 (45.42%) female. For 15-30 years group, 15,919 (56.7%) of 28,072 were men and 12,153 (43.3%) female. Among 43,719 patients in age group 31-50 years, 27,686 (63.33%) were male and 16,033 (36.67%) female. In group of above 50 years, 20,024 (61.72%) out of 32,442 were male and 12,418 (38.28%) were female. Data of 240 patients was not available with IDSP unit. The difference is higher in deaths also. Among 3,672 deceased, 2,629 (71.6%) were men and 1,043 (28.4%) were women. The ratio is more or less same in city and rural. Of total 3,672 deceased, 2,534 were from city. 1,787 (70.52%) were men and 747 (29.48%) women. In Nagpur rural, 450 (71.43%) deceased were male among total 630 and 180 (28.57%) were female. 508 deceased were outstation patients who died in government or private hospitals here. 392 (77.17%) of them were male and 116 (22.83%) female. TOI had on October 20 reported huge difference in number of positive patients and deaths in male and female. Latest data affirms that trend. Men come out worse in total CFR too. Among 67,756 male positive patients, 2,629 died for a CFR of 3.88%. Among women, CFR is 2.37% with 1,043 deaths out of 44,009 cases. It also means recovery rate is higher among women. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, stroke, lung and heart related diseases etc are less prevalent in women till age of 50 years due to hormonal protection. Also, vices like smoking, chewing tobacco related items and consuming alcohol etc is more common in men.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/men-worse-sufferers-in-covid-than-women/articleshow/79596926.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Restrictions hit normal life in temple town of Alandi||PUNE: Market areas and most thoroughfares across the temple town of Alandi, located about 25km from here, wore a deserted look as the district administration’s decision to enforce curbs under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) came into effect from Sunday. The restrictions are expected to prevent crowding ahead of the annual Kartiki Wari fair and to contain the spread of Covid-19. Usually, the Kartiki Wari fair draws a huge crowd of warkaris from across the state around this time of the year as they reach Alandi in ‘Dindis’. However, in view of the pandemic, the administration is being cautious and ensuring that there is no crowding. Only essential services like medical and grocery stores as well as vegetable vendors have been allowed to remain open while the area around Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj temple complex remained deserted. Vegetable vendors have been given designated spots to operate, the police said. Most residents in the town also remained confined to their homes. In contrast, no police check points were visible at villages located close to Alandi nor were there any restrictions on vehicular movement. Alandi police station in-charge inspector Dnyaneshwar Sable said, “People have responded well to the curbs by closing shops on their own. Our teams are taking stock of the situation on a regular basis throughout the day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/restrictions-hit-normal-life-in-temple-town-of-alandi/articleshow/79596903.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 7, 2020||Ludhiana||Fraudster dupes eatery owners of Rs 50,000 for online service tie-up||LUDHIANA: A fraudster impersonating as an employee of Zomato, a food delivering company, duped restaurants, eateries and hotel owners in Ludhiana of Rs 50,000 on the pretext of finalising their formalities for tie-ups with the company for online orders. The Sarabha Nagar police have registered a case against the accused identified as Siddharth Aggarwal of Avtar Nagar, Ferozepur road, following an investigation. In his complaint to the police, Raman Nagpal of Harikartar Colony, who is sales manager at Zomato, stated that they had an office in block-F of BRS Nagar. After the lockdown was imposed due to coronavirus outbreak, all employees were asked to work from home. However, while staying at home the employees were asked to tie-up with the restaurants and eateries for online food orders in future. “When the administration allowed home delivery of the food, the fraudster approached some hotels, restaurants and eateries and duped their owners of money even though the company does not charge any fee for tie-ups. Later on, he started receiving complaints from eatery owners that they were not getting online orders while they had paid the fee also,” he added. On further checking the matter, Nagal found out that someone impersonating as an employee of Zomato had duped the persons of money. Thereafter, he made a complaint with the police. Investigating officer from police station, Sarabha Nagar, ASI Santokh Singh said that the police had identified the accused and a hunt was on for his arrest. A case under Section 420 (punishment for cheating) of the IPC has been lodged against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fraudster-dupes-eatery-owners-of-rs-50000-for-online-service-tie-up/articleshow/79596894.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Minister inaugurates Sulur bus stand||Coimbatore: Sulur bus stand, constructed at a cost of Rs 5.3 crore, was inaugurated by state local administration minister S P Velumani on Sunday.Built on 2.34 acres, the bus stand will have 12 bus bays and 19 shops. Besides, the bus stand will have a feeding room for mothers, a police control room, a cloak room, a passenger waiting room, paid as well as free toilets, a parking lot and other basic amenities like drinking water for the public.Sulur bus stand work commenced in 2017 after the earlier structure there turned too weak and portions of the structure were damaged. The bus stand was also planned in a larger area to avoid congestion within the premises as more buses had to be accommodated.The new bus stand is expected to host 250 buses everyday catering to about 35,000 people from Sulur and surrounding villages. Besides local buses, long distance buses to places like Trichy, Madurai would stop here to accommodate passengers. “The bus stand would be helpful to scores of people who go from Sulur for work and students to their educational institutions,’’ Velumani said.He said that the state government provided infrastructure development to suburban and rural areas like Sulur also on par with the urban pockets. “Roads are being laid, bus stands are built, school buildings are constructed, small bridges are built, and angina buildings are set up in rural areas,’’ he said.In continuation of the development work in rural and suburban areas, a new bus stand was being constructed at Somanur at a cost of Rs 3 crore on the lines of Sulur bus stand while work has begun for overbridge across river Noyyal at Irugur, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/minister-inaugurates-sulur-bus-stand/articleshow/79598160.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Cinema theatres haunted by low footfall, but keep the show going||Coimbatore: A month after the state government relaxed the lockdown norms and allowed cinemas to operate with 50% occupancy, those in the district are witnessing only 20 to 45% occupancy.As some theatres, including multiplexes, witnessed a good response in the last few days following the release of Christopher Nolan’s highly-anticipated espionage-thriller Tenet, theatre owners feel that the footfall will increase with the release of good Christmas content. People are eager to visit theatres as they don’t have much recreational options, said M Subramaniam, president of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association. “The footfall is low at present mainly due to the lack of good movies. There is a good response for good movies,” he told TOI.As many as 10 new films got big screen release in the last one month, Subramaniam said. “Most of them are low-budget movies that lacked reputed names. Some theatres are cancelling shows due to lack of content or zero footfall.”K Rajamannar, president of the Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris and Erode Distributors Association, said they stopped screening old movies after Diwali. “Depending on the type and location, footfall is just 20 to 30% of total seating capacity. Theatre owners are struggling to meet expenses after closing for eight months.”While theatres in the city are having three shows, those on the outskirts and other districts have four, he added. PVR Cinemas had organized a Nolan festival for a week before the release of Tenet, a representative said. “We received good response and have been witnessing a high advance booking. Footfall at our theatres is about 45%. We are also receiving at least five private screening orders per week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cinema-theatres-haunted-by-low-footfall-but-keep-the-show-going/articleshow/79598197.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Civic body to reopen footbridge in two days||Coimbatore: Days after residents of Seeranaickenpalayam petitioned the city corporation to reopen the footbridge connecting Maruthamalai main road with their residential area, the civic body has started doing necessary works to open it for public use.N Chandran, a resident and a member of the CPI, said, “The city corporation had reconstructed the footbridge within three months and it is an appreciable work. However, even four months after the completion of construction work, officials hadn’t taken any steps to open the footbridge for public use. Now, the public are forced to travel extra miles to reach the main road,” he said.According to him, the alignment of the footbridge, which stands above the road surface isn’t correct. “Also, bushes have started to grow on the road.”After receiving the petition from the residents, the city corporation has cleared the bushes and started levelling the road to adjust the difference in height. A corporation official said the footbridge would be opened for the public in a day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/civic-body-to-reopen-footbridge-in-two-days/articleshow/79598188.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjabi diaspora hold protests in support of farmers’ agitation||JALANDHAR/BATHINDA: Punjabi diaspora held protests at several places in Canada, United Kingdom, United States, Australia and New Zealand on Sunday in support of farmers’ agitation at the Delhi border. All protests were peaceful, barring the one in a Sydney suburb, where a small scuffle broke out when some persons started raising competitive slogans in front of Punjabi protesters in Quaker Hill. Video clips of the incident reveal a minor clash between the two groups before the protesters chased away the other side. In the US, a protest was held outside the Indian consulate in San Francisco, California. A car rally started from Oakland, where Punjabis from different places had converged, to San Francisco, disrupting traffic on route as the caravan was a few kilometers long. Protests were also held in Marysville, Washington, in New York, in Indiana and in Dallas. In Canada, protests were held in Abbotsford, Brampton, Regina Saskatchewan, Surrey, Mission BC, Montreal, Ottawa and in London city of Ontario. The protesters carried placards and raised slogans in support of the Indian farmers. They also carried pictures of some protesting farmers who were injured when the Haryana police used force to stop their march from Punjab to Delhi on November 25 and 26. “A big car rally was organised at Brampton in support of the farmers’ peaceful agitation in India. The call was given jointly by organisations - Sarokaran de Awaz, Alliance of Progressive Canadians, Indo-Canadian Workers Association, North-American Tarksheel Society in Ontario, GTA West Club, Communist Party of Canada, and Desh Bhagat Sports Cultural Society, Brampton. More than 800 cars took part in the rally was held on the Bovaird Drive – a 7km stretch from Brampton Soccer Centre to car parking of the Indian Passport Office, Brampton. A large number of protesters stood by the road, holding placards in support of farmers’ agitation and calling for repeal of the three new agriculture laws. They also slammed the use of water cannons and lathis on farmers to suppress their peaceful demonstrations in Punjab and Haryana,” said Hardeep Singh and Harbans Singh of Sarokaran-de-Awaz. The protest in Auckland, New Zealand, witnessed a turnout of a few thousand Punjabi men, women and even children. In almost all protests, slogans of ‘Kisan-Mazdoor’ unity were raised. Protests outside India had started a few days back but these picked up pace over the weekend and also had more participants. Meanwhile, a few Punjabi netizens from diaspora suggested that in the days to come, people could just stand by the traffic lights on transactions near their houses with placards in their hands so as not to disturb vehicular movement and yet show their support to the farmers issue to thousands of people in other countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabi-diaspora-hold-protests-in-support-of-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79598199.cms||IP Singh
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Half of children of guest workers not enrolled in schools: Study||Coimbatore: Only half of the children of guest workers aged below 14 years residing in three districts - Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode - are enrolled in schools and 61% of their children who are aged between 15 and 18 years are working, revealed a study conducted by two non-government organizations (NGOs). The NGOs – Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) and Rights Education And Development Centre (READ) - had interviewed 304 migrant families – 81 in Coimbatore, 149 in Tirupur and 74 in Erode - through snowball sampling method from November 2019 to March 2020. Most of the guest workers are from West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. They had released a report tilted ‘Unaccounted, invisible migrant children deprived of their rights’, a study on the conditions of children of guest workers in Tamil Nadu. Number of guest workers are high in these districts in western region. The objective of the survey is to understand the living conditions of the children of guest workers, their access to health, hygiene, early childhood care, education and nutrition, and review the existing policies related to these children. The report said, “Only 53% of the children of guest workers aged between 6 and 11 years and 56% of the children aged between 12 and 14 years are enrolled in schools. Similarly, only 6.3% of children aged below six years have access to anganwadi centers.” The report also found out that 61% of the children aged between 15 and 18 years are working, and the proportion of working children is found high in Coimbatore. “In case of the children who are not enrolled in schools, some remain idle at their houses while some others work along with their parents at their workplace. The dropout rate is high among the children who had come down to the districts, after completing elementary education at their native place. It is mainly because of language barrier. According to the Right To Education (RTE) Act, 2009, the government should take necessary steps to provide education to these children in their mother tongues. But it is not implemented effectively in the state, said R Karuppusamy, state convener of CACL. Importantly, the state government does not have complete data related to the guest workers and lacks interstate collaboration even for monitoring the school students, he said and explained that because of it, the state governments do not even know even if a child enters in the state and whether a child is continuing its education in other state or not. The government should create a separate helpline with people who can speak other languages including Hindi, to address their grievances in the initial stage itself, he said. Emphasizing the need to bring changes at the policy level, he said that they are planning to submit to the state government at the earliest. The report also recommends the state governments to identify migrant families at district level and issue an identity card to enable access to public health care, early childhood care and education. Vocational training should be provided for those children who cannot be mainstreamed in regular schools due to age factors, the report added. About a month ago, READ has launched an android application ‘India Migration’ to help interstate guest workers register their details and the organization is planning to share the details with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/half-of-children-of-guest-workers-not-enrolled-in-schools-study/articleshow/79598168.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 7, 2020||Pune||Pune: Curbs impact wedding plans||PUNE: A sizeable number of marriages that were to take place between December 6 and 14 in Alandi, now stand postponed due to curbs imposed under Section 144 of the CrPC to avoid crowding. The decision has not gone down well with businesses associated with marriage events in the town as well as families that had made plans for small gatherings. Business representatives claimed they will face huge financial loss due to the restrictions. “We got to know about the order on Saturday night and my daughter’s marriage is on December 8. The marriage hall owner has asked us to change the venue. On such short notice, I have no idea how to go ahead with the plan. Finally, I am going to make arrangement at my home, which will cost me at least Rs50,000,” said Balasaheb Bhadale, father of a bride from Koyali village. Similarly, Santosh Lokhande, resident of Markal, had to postpone the ceremony to next month. “The groom’s family was not ready to change the venue. We had no option but to postpone the wedding. Now, we will have to face at least Rs1 lakh additional expenditure on the function,” said Lokhande. Alandi is considered an auspicious location to conduct marriages. Hundreds of ceremonies take place in the town almost everyday. For locals, this has turned into a source of earning a livelihood. “We have already lost the entire marriage season due to the strict lockdown imposed in the summer. Now, the marriage season has just started but again we have got lockdown orders,” said Suresh Kale, who owns a band. The authorities have asked marriage hall owners and dharmashalas not to allow mass gatherings on restricted days. Dnyaneshwar Sable, in-charge of Alandi police station, said, “The order categorically mentions that five or more people cannot gather at any place, privately or publicly. So we have asked owners of marriage halls and dharmashalas to follow the order in letter and spirit. As a result, hundreds of marriages have either got postponed or cancelled.” Sable added the endeavour of the police is to ensure the situation remains under control and focus only on providing essential services to local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/curbs-impact-wedding-plans/articleshow/79596906.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 7, 2020||Pune||Migrant worker held on charge of murder in Pune||PUNE: The Pune rural police on Saturday arrested a migrant worker who was on the run after a 65-year-old woman was found murdered earlier in the day in his house at Sakori village in Junnar taluka, around 100km from here. Police said the suspect, Arjun Prasad (40), had travelled to Nashik and was about to board a train to his native place in Bihar when he was arrested from the Nashik Road railway station. Police said the victim, Jankabai Chore, was a local resident whom Prasad had taken to his home on the pretext of giving her work. “Gold ornaments worth Rs75,000 were missing from her body when she was discovered,” an officer from the Ale Phata police said. The officer said that Prasad was working as a centring contractor and had been staying on rent at a house in the village for the past eight years. On Friday around 10am, he had taken Chore along with him under the pretext of work, police said. “When she did not return home till late in the evening, her family members began searching her,” the officer said. When they got to know that Chore had gone along with Prasad, some villagers went to latter’s rented house on Saturday and found it to be locked. “The villagers informed the police. Our team went to Sakori and entered inside. The team found Chore lying dead on the floor and her ornaments were missing,” the officer said. The officer stated that Chore was beaten and later throttled to death. “We received the information that the Prasad was in preparation of escaping to his native place in Bihar from a train via Nashik. Our team reached the Nashik Road railway station and took Prasad into custody on Saturday,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/migrant-worker-held-on-charge-of-murder/articleshow/79596919.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Business||Over 60% of RBI’s high-frequency indicators above pre-Covid levels||NEW DELHI: Of the 48 high-frequency economic indicators tracked by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), 18 remained below pre-Covid levels, while the rest jumped above the February mark. Among the parameters being closely monitored in October, there were only two indicators — monthly equity investments by mutual funds and the monthly outstanding for certificates of deposits — which were far worse compared to the levels seen in February, when the deadly virus that was first spotted in China started creating havoc around the globe with early effects seen in India too. Certificates of deposits are short-term money market instruments issued by banks and financial institutions. Mutual funds investments in equities in November have slipped further, the numbers released by the RBI along with the monetary policy statement on Friday showed. Those in the amber category — which indicates that the worst may be over but is not on the recovery path yet — include domestic passenger traffic, given the capacity restriction on airlines imposed by the government, and corporate bond issuance, which has slipped. Air cargo is a notch better but had not moved towards normalisation, although on a sequential basis an improvement is seen every month, given that demand for goods in the domestic market has picked up. There are segments where production and the sales numbers present a different picture, tractor being one example. By all accounts, tractor sales are booming with the government and analysts attributing it to buoyant rural income. But the RBI’s estimates suggested that production has moved well beyond the pre-Covid levels but sales — on a seasonally adjusted basis — are below February levels, and have slipped during September and October. In fact, tractor and three-wheeler sales are the two dark spots in an otherwise rosy farm sector. Unlike tractors, three-wheeler production too remains below pre-Covid levels, but is rising. Overall, while improving projections for the current financial year, the RBI has said that the recovery is better than expected, a view that even the government shares, although both have warned of possible downside risks. “The downside risk, however, remains the spread of a second wave of Covid-19. However, there is a growing cautious optimism that the steep plunges of April-June quarter of 2020 may not resurface with significant progress in vaccines and contact-intensive sectors increasingly adapting to a virtual normal,” the finance ministry said in its monthly economic assessment last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/over-60-of-rbis-high-frequency-indicators-above-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/79599543.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE private candidates get extension for form submission||Nagpur: CBSE has extended the date for submitting board exam forms and/or making corrections, specifically for private candidates. Though the earlier deadline was for November, the online portal is being opened up again till December 14 with some riders. Looking into requests made by the candidates, as one time measure, the link for submission/correction in the private candidate’s data and filling of private candidates examination form is being opened. Though candidates can make the correction online in all fields, there is one catch. Candidates will be able to apply only for subjects which are auto-generated in the system. Those who have passed board exams already, too, can apply for an additional subject, from the eligible subject list. However. this applies only to those students who have passed the board exam within the last six years. So, candidates who passed in 2015 and later are eligible to apply. However, nobody can apply for a subject which involves practical work CBSE has also made it clear that though the online portal is being reopened, fresh applications can be made only after paying late fees. All candidates will get new roll numbers for appearing in 2021. In no case will candidates will be allowed to appear with the previous year’s roll number, a statement from CBSE said. The board has also advised candidates to make online payment using “own account/debit/credit card or any of your parent/sibling’s account/debit/credit card”. This suggestion has been made so that in the event of any refund, the same reaches the candidate and not anybody else. Before logging in, candidates must keep ready scanned copies of their photograph and signature. Both images must only be in .JPG format and size must not exceed 40KB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-private-candidates-get-extension-for-form-submission/articleshow/79596972.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Arrests made during protests in London||London: A number of British Punjabis were arrested as thousands descended on India’s mission in London in cars, trucks and bikes from across Britain causing traffic jams stretching outside the capital to show solidarity with protesting farmers in India. Hundreds drove past the High Commission of India building in convoy waving orange Sikh and farmers’ union flags, honking as loudly as they could and blasting out music. Thousands more stood in the road opposite the India High Commission holding placards saying ‘No farmers, no food, no future’, setting off green and orange smoke, playing drums and chanting slogans. A small number of protesters carried yellow Khalistan flags. But Tony Gill, 29, from west London, who has roots in Ludhiana, said: “This is not an issue about Khalistan or about Sikhs. There are no Khalistan supporters here. This is about farmer rights.” All those present TOI spoke to had land in Punjab that their extended family either ran or rented out. They all wanted both the British government and the India High Commission to put pressure on the Indian government for the new farming laws to be repealed, which they said would leave Indian farmers impoverished. One protester likened the farmer protests in India to the Black Lives Matter movement. The London kisan rally was organised by the Federation Of Sikh Organisations, Kabbadi clubs, gurdwaras and Punjab centres. There was a large presence of Metropolitan Police present who confirmed to TOI there were a number of arrests made for offences, including breaching Covid regulations and setting off fireworks towards a crowd. Organisers told TOI that more than 1,000 people from the Midlands were prevented from travelling into the capital by police who blocked them mid-way. Sukhbir Bassi, a representative of Singh Sabha London East kabbadi club said: “We will not have our people have their land grabbed by the Indian government. It is our moral duty to support our people in India.” “We all have farm land we have inherited in Punjab that our relatives are running or it is rented out,” explained Ravinder Singh from Southall, who has roots in Jalandhar. “Now, corporations will be able to charge us what they like and middlemen will be eliminated... Right now the middlemen can act as a broker. Now, the corporations will put so much pressure on the farmers to buy fertiliser that they will kill the soil, then the farmers will get into debt and then they will take the land. That is the endgame,” he alleged. Jay Singh, 33, from Slough, also with Jalandhar roots, claimed: “They want to privatise the farming market and in the long run this will make income very difficult for farmers, that is why we want the three laws overturned. The majority of farmers are Sikh but this is affecting Hindu and Muslim farmers as well... We would like the British media and government to air our concerns.” Gurmit Singh, 48, who was born in Jalandhar and now lives in Wolverhampton said: “The farmers protested for two months in Punjab and the government did not listen. I am here because the Indian government doesn’t listen. The rich people are taking over everything not just in Punjab but in all states.” Another protester Bhupinder Singh, 35, from Hayes, alleged: “I saw how hard my father worked in farming in Jalandhar and now they are trying to steal our land. My parents will get less profits. Before we could sell food in the market and now they have brought rich people into the industry who they want us to sell to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/arrests-made-during-protests-in-london/articleshow/79598227.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Protests mark Babri Masjid demolition anniversary||Coimbatore: Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) staged protests at Athupalam here on Sunday on the 28th anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition.The protesters condemned the apex court’s judgement and urged the Union government to return the land to Muslim organisations to construct a mosque.SDPI members, including women and children, raised slogans against the Union government. Party’s national vice-president K K S M Dhehlan Baqavi exhorted people to abandon the RSS ideology and Manusmriti. “Basic rights will be achieved only if untouchability is abolished,” he said.“Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992 by right wing people. We did not accept the apex court’s judgment and demanded that as per Justice Liberhan commission’s report, the accused people should be punished. We want the same land and will unite the people against the right wing and will conduct protests across the country. The Union government should implement the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991,” said Baqavi.TMMK’s state general secretary J Haja Kani led another protest. General secretary of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) Ku Ramakrishnan, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi’s Susi Kalaiyarasan and TMMK leaders participated in the protest.Police had deployed 2,200 personnel in view of the protests.SDPI and TMMK conducted protests in Tirupur also. TMMK members beat photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah with slippers and burnt them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/protests-mark-babri-masjid-demolition-anniversary/articleshow/79598202.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||3,900 livestock killed during Cyclone Nivar, says Tamil Nadu govt||The state government on Sunday estimated that about 3,900 livestock were killed during the cyclone Nivar. Among them were 101 cows and 127 calves, nine buffaloes and 134 goats. The remaining were by and large chicken. State animal husbandry minister Udumalai Radhakrishnan also pegged the value of the lost livestock at Rs 90 lakh. “The state government has initiated the work to compensate their owners,” he told reporters at Pollachi on Sunday. Radhakrishnan said the Nivar had hit 17 districts, including Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Chengelpet, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Vellore in the north, and Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai in the Cauvery delta region. The minister said special camps were being conducted in the cyclone-hit districts for treating livestock. “Around 560 camps were held and vaccines were administered on nearly 39,000 cattle across the state. This apart, we have distributed about 47,000kg food supplements for cattle in the cyclone-hit areas.” Government officials are carrying out field inspections to assess the damages. According to the initial assessment in the delta districts, 2.5-lakh acres of samba paddy cultivation was inundated in the rainwater. In the coastal Nagapattinam alone 1.45 lakh acres of crop was inundated, while in Tiruvarur 1.21 lakh acres farmland was submerged and in Thanjavur 23,500 acres. While the Nivar had hit hard on northern districts, in the delta districts it was the Burevi that wreaked havoc. Since the Burevi hit within a few days after the Nivar and before the latter’s damages could be assessed, officials said they were compiling data for both the cyclones together. In Cuddalore, officials said, 1,951 houses were damaged in the rain and wind. The nature’s fury claimed the lives of 210 cattle and more than 20,000 poultry stock, besides damaging crops on more than 45,000 hectares. Industries minister M C Sampath, meanwhile, said the state government would allocate Rs 60 crore to execute the Aruvamukku scheme to prevent frequent flooding in the Cuddalore district, which is located at the fag end of the Cauvery delta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/livestock-worth-rs-90l-killed-in-cyclone-nivar-minister/articleshow/79598223.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Unpaid property tax bills in Haryana at Rs 1.9k crore||CHANDIGARH: Covid-19 has pushed up property tax arrears across all the 10 municipal corporations. According to information procured from the urban local bodies department, dues have been piling up and have now reached Rs 1,935.07 crore. These arrears have piled up over the past three years. Lack of coordination among civic bodies, staff and enforcement agencies is being cited as one of the reasons for such a state of affairs. Even as municipal corporations of Gurgaon and Panipat have initiated the drive of sealing defaulters’ properties, results are awaited. Sources said there are around 35 lakh assesses of property tax in 10 municipal corporations of Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar, Rohtak, Sonipat, Panipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Ambala and Yamunanngar. Gurgaon tops the list with arrears worth Rs 504 crore, followed by Rs 304.36 crore of Panipat, Rs 276,50 crore of Karnal, Rs 243.93 crore of Faridabad, Rs 184 crore of Yamunanagar and Rs 164 crore of Panchkula MC. Remaining civic bodies have arrears of less than Rs 100 crore. Barring Faridabad, Panipat and Gurgaon, the civic body had record collection of property tax. During the pandemic year, Gurgaon has been able to collect Rs 162 crore as property tax. Panchkula was the only civic body where collection crossed Rs 11 crore for the current financial year. Remaining eight civic bodies could not even collect Rs 10 crore, with Panipat and Karnal being the worst performers. “Now, we have complete focus on recoveries. We have started sealing buildings in Gurgaon and Panipat and will start this drive in other cities as well. We hope to recover arrears by the end of the financial year,’’ said a senior officer of the urban local bodies department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unpaid-property-tax-bills-in-hry-at-rs-1-9k-cr/articleshow/79598231.cms||Manvir Saini
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||FIR lodged against two men for meth smuggling||Coimbatore: The Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIBCID) of the city police has registered an FIR against two people for attempting to smuggle 1.2kg methamphetamine to Sharjah from the Coimbatore International Airport on Saturday. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Arul, a travel agent, and Alibhai of Trichy, forced Nagarathinam of Trichy to carry the drug to Sharjah, sources said.Nagarathinam, who was about to board a flight to Sharjah from the airport on Saturday, had informed CISF officers at the departure gate about the smuggling attempt. The personnel checked the suitcase and found the contraband. They handed over the contraband and Nagarathinam to Peelamedu police inspector Jothi and later, NIB-CID took over the case.Arul and Alibhai have been booked under sections 8 (c), 22 (c), 29 (1) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.A special team led by NIB-CID deputy superintendent of police M Manoharan is investigating the case. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that Nagarathinam is innocent. We are working to trace the whereabouts of Arul and Alibhai,” said Manoharan. “The contraband item will be sent for lab test in Chennai after getting permission from the special court for essential commodities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fir-lodged-against-two-men-for-meth-smuggling/articleshow/79598229.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt speeds up projects as election nears||Coimbatore: With the state assembly election around the corner, the AIADMK government is all set to get the development projects rolling before the model code of conduct comes into force. In January, the state highways department would commence work on the western ring road project by laying road for a 7km stretch from Madukkarai, while the Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) would start implementing the Pillur-III drinking water scheme for at least 5km at Thekkampatti near Mettupalayam.An official with the revenue department said senior officials and special tahsildars, who were deployed for acquiring land for the western ring road, had held talks with the villagers of Madukkarai, Perur Chettipalayam, Theethipalayam, Madampatti and Madukkarai a week ago.“The villagers don’t have any opposition and we will take over the land and hand them over to the state highways department to start the project. The highways department is expected to lay the road for at least 7km from Mayilkal near Madukkarai in January,” the official said.The project to lay the four-lane western ring road for a total of 32.4km from Mayilkal to Narasimmanaickenpalayam was conceived with an objective of reducing traffic congestion in the district. The state government has sanctioned Rs845 crore for the project. From that, Rs 320 crore would be spent on land acquisition. According to the official, land has to be acquired from 15 revenue villages.The Pillur-III drinking water project would, meanwhile, be implemented from Thekkampatti to Pannimadai, covering areas such as Marudhur, Gudalur, Naickenpalayam, Narasimmanaickenpalayam, Kurudampalayam and Nanjundapuram. The project will be implemented by the TWAD.The project cost is pegged at Rs 750 crore, of which Rs 100 crore would be spent on land acquisition. Around 162 acres land has already been identified for the project. A whopping 125 acres is owned by 411individuals, while the remaining 37 acres is with the state government.A source with the TWAD said the pipeline for the project would be laid for at least 5km from Thekkampatti in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-speeds-up-projects-as-election-nears/articleshow/79598235.cms||A Subburaj
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Kamal raking up Surappa issue for political gains, says minister||Dharmapuri: Higher education minister K P Anbalagan on Sunday took a dig at Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Hassan stating the actor was supporting Anna university vice-chancellor MK Surappa without knowing the facts and termed it a poll gimmick.Kamal had on Saturday lashed out at the state government for constituting an inquiry committee to inquire into allegations of corruption and financial irregularities against Surappa based on an anonymous letter.Talking to the media, Anbalagan said the government had constituted the inquiry commission based on corruption charges. “Surappa initially said he was an honest man and ready to face the case legally. But he prayed to the Madurai bench of Madras high court to include him as a party to a public interest litigation that challenged the government order on inquiry against him over corruption charges. He should have approached the HC. Why did he approach Madurai bench, when he doesn’t come in its jurisdiction?”The minister said the government didn’t have any role in the appointment of vice-chancellor. The government, he said, would only constitute a search committee to receive applications from eligible applicants. “The committee would suggest three eligible applicants and the governor would pick one of them for the post.”“Kamal has been trying to find fault with the government and me, and hence raking up the Surappa issue,” the higher education minister said.Training guns at DMK chief MK Stalin, who had slammed the state government for not doing rehabilitation works at many cyclone-affected districts, the minister said the opposition leader was simply making statements by sitting at home. “The chief minister had toured across the state and discussed rehabilitation works with the district administrations. How would the opposition leader know about the rehabilitation works by the state government when he’s sitting at home?” The revenue department has identified nearly 2 lakh hectares land that was affected by the cyclones in the state. “The chief minister has been discussing with the officials to issue solatium and the insurance money to the landowners,” Anbalagan said. “The compensation will be issued to the beneficiaries at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kamal-raking-up-surappa-issue-for-political-gains-says-minister/articleshow/79598262.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Wary of government’s Covid testing: Farm leaders||CHANDIGARH: Agitating farmers who are camping on Haryana-New Delhi borders in Sonipat are dithering from any kind of clinical examination, including tests for Covid-19. While braving biting cold during their agitation under open skies, farmers are taking treatment for cough, fever or other problems, but are reluctant or are refusing to undergo any tests, especially for Covid. Farmer leaders admit said they could not rely on the government at this point of time. “The government has resorted to all means to weaken the agitation, including the use of force, like water cannons and canecharging. So, how can we expect anything favorable from it? Most farmers are of this opinion. Else, our people are taking treatment at medical camps,” said Rakesh Bains, a spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni). Akshay Narwal, a representative of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh from Sonipat district, said the agitation had reached a stage where the government would resort to anything to create a divide or to weaken it. “Apart from government doctors, we have our own teams which are giving treatment to farmers who feel under the weather. We will not rely on the government. If any farmer’s condition gets worse, we shift them to our own places with own arrangements for diagnosis,’’ said Narwal. Kaka Singh Kottra, the state general secretary of a farmers’ union from Punjab, said farmers at the protest were sleeping under open skies or below tractor-trolleys. “So, seasonal fever, chest congestion and cold is possible. How can we rely on the Haryana government? It had tried to stop us by expressing apprehensions about the spread of Covid. They can use testing of farmers to create a divide between us or the break agitation,” said Kottra. “If the government is really concerned about our health, it should send teams to villages where our families could get examined. Farmers are strong and can tolerate minor illness,” he added. Headed by the in-charge of Badkhalsa primary health centre in Sonipat, 10 ambulances have been deployed on the borders. Dr Avnita Kaushik, the PHC in-charge and supervising officer for the ambulances, said the ambulances were attending to around 100 farmers every day and treating them as well. Special counters have also been set up for Covid tests, she said. “Our teams are giving treatment according to problems and symptoms, even if farmers are not forthcoming. Critical patients are referred to civil hospital. Besides cough and fever, we are getting patients with hypertension and diabetes as well. An eplileptic patient himself opted for treatment from his home district in Punjab,’’ said Sonipat civil surgeon Dr J S Punia. When the Dilli Chalo protest started, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar had expressed apprehensions through a tweet about the possibility of Covid spreading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wary-of-govts-covid-testing-say-farm-union-leaders/articleshow/79598254.cms||Manvir Saini
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||First ever e-lok adalat in Punjab on Dec 12||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab state legal services authority has decided to conduct the national lok adalat in e-lok adalat format in the entire state for the first time on December 12 in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The e-lok adalat will be held under the guidance of executive chairman and judge of Punjab and Haryana high court, Justice S Muralidhar. District and session judge and member secretary of the Punjab state legal services authority Arun Gupta said the authority had decided to conduct e-lok adalat to maintain social distancing protocol. In this national lok adalat, approximately 349 benches are to be constituted and about 26,977 cases are expected to be settled amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/first-ever-e-lok-adalat-in-pb-on-dec-12/articleshow/79598266.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Vaccination on priority: Delhi govt’s list of 2 lakh health workers ready||NEW DELHI: Nearly two lakh healthcare personnel in Delhi will be the first to get inoculated as soon as a vaccine for Covid-19 is available in the capital. In the next phase, those whose age is 60 years or above would get vaccinated, followed by those who are in the 50-59 age bracket and have comorbidities. Delhi government has been preparing a database of health workers, both from the government and private sectors, who are going to get Covid-19 vaccination in the first phase. The database will be submitted to the union health ministry. According to sources, around 1.5 lakh healthcare workers had enrolled for the vaccination programme by mid-November and to expedite the process, Delhi government has asked all registered and unregistered healthcare facilities in the city to list their workers by Saturday midnight. Sources added that the complete list of those enrolled for vaccination is nearly two lakh. The healthcare personnel include medical, paramedical, supporting, security, sanitation, and administrative staff of all allopathic, dental, Ayush, physiotherapy clinics, diagnostic laboratories, radiology centres and other healthcare settings. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Dev reviewed the enrolment exercise with senior officials on Thursday and was satisfied with the progress. While the Delhi government will submit the database of personnel from the hospitals it runs and private hospitals, nursing homes and other healthcare facilities, central government-run hospitals and dispensaries are submitting details of their human resources to the Union government according to the mechanism provided to them. Delhi government will use the existing cold chain system in the city used for regular immunisation programmes, apart from the supply and distribution chain for introduction of the Covid-19 vaccine in the future. The process of vaccination and immunisation in Delhi is mostly carried out with the help of ASHA and anganwadi workers and for the purpose of introduction of Covid-19 vaccine, ANMs and other healthcare workers are also going to be roped in. The official said that new cold storage facilities, such as a large storage centre at Delhi government’s Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, were also coming up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccination-on-priority-govts-list-of-2l-health-workers-ready/articleshow/79598302.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal liquor vend busted, 3 booked||YAMUNANAGAR: Police have registered a case of criminal conspiracy, cheating and violation of Excise Act against a liquor contractor and two accomplices for allegedly running an illegal liquor vend near Chhari village in Radaur area of Yamunanagar district. A case has been registered against liquor contractor Surender Rana, his workers, director Sonu Rana and salesman Ranvir of Yamunanagar, under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Radaur police station on the complaint of sub-inspector (SI) Dinesh Kumar of Haryana chief minister (CM) flying squad, Panchkula. SI Dinesh lodged a police complaint saying, “A tip-off was received that contractor Surender Rana has opened a liquor vend through his director Sonu Rana on Chhari village to Jaguri road and salesman Ranvir of Majri runs this vend. Officials, including excise and taxation department inspector Rajesh Kumar and SHO Radaur were called to the spot to conduct a raid.” SI Dinesh said when the raid was conducted, the salesman sitting inside illegal vend at Chhari village fled into the sugarcane fields. On checking, 39 bottles of country liquor brand Malta were recovered, including 19 of 750 ml, six of 375 ml and 14 of 180 ml along with Rs 1,200 kept in a box, he added. Yamunanagar Police PRO Chamkaur Singh said, “A case has been registered and so far, no arrests have been made. Investigations are on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-vend-busted-3-booked/articleshow/79598269.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||More FSWs in city eligible for state dole than in Mumbai||Nagpur: There are 6,616 female sex workers (FSW) officially in Nagpur district, says a government resolution (GR) issued by the state government. The state wide count has been put at 30,000. The GR was issued on November 26 in line with the state government’s plan to provide a monthly dole of Rs5,000 to FSWs to tide over the financial crisis on account of Covid. Those with children will be getting another Rs2,500. The final GR issued by department of women and child development, which spells out the procedure for implementing the scheme has also given a district-wise count of FSWs. The funds have been allocated according to the numbers. The number of FSWs Nagpur is second highest in state, after Pune, which has 7,000 odd. Nagpur also surpasses Mumbai, which has 5,400 FSWs. There are 231 children of FSWs, says the GR. This includes Mumbai city, suburban area and Thane. The least is in Bhandara district at 16. NGOs involved in FSWs’ welfare say that though underreporting cannot be ruled out in Mumbai, there are certainly a high number of women involved in the profession in Nagpur. The women are divided into those operating in brothels like the Ganga-Jamuna red light area, rest of the city and rural parts. The numbers are provided by the District AIDS Prevention and Control Units (DAPCUs) in the state. The population is measured on the basis of a survey conducted by the concerned DAPCU through a questionnaire. The women who fit in the criterion on the basis of their answers are only officially counted as FSWs, said a source. The basic survey was done in 2009, and updations, which includes deletion of those who have left the profession, is done each year. Another major survey is planned in 2020, the source said. Each NGO is given a specific area to monitor the change in numbers during the year. The Rs5,000 dole is expected to be given from next week onwards. The funds have been received for the Nagpur district. The final tally will be made on the basis of number of consent forms signed by the women, declaring that they are FSWs, and also on availability of their bank accounts, said a state government official Hemlata Lohave, the project in-charge of Red Cross at Ganga-Jamuna area, said the number of FSWs in the red light area is pegged at around 1,500. This means that the rest are from other parts of the city and district. Lohave said that since it has been made mandatory for FSWs to have a bank account, a number of them are not likely get the benefit. So far Jandhan accounts have been opened for over 40 of them and the work continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-fsws-in-city-eligible-for-state-dole-than-in-mumbai/articleshow/79596988.cms||Shishir Arya
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Cattle smugglers escape after shooting at police||Shahabad (Kurukshetra): Police fired 26 rounds in self-defence as alleged cattle smugglers opened fire at them. The accused were headed towards Uttar Pradesh (UP) via Shahabad-Markanda on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Sources said the truck loaded with livestock jumped a checking barrier at Jalebi Pul (bridge) in Shahabad. Police retaliated in kind when the miscreants started firing at them on being chased. A case has been registered. According to the FIR, police acted on a tip-off about three unknown persons smuggling stray cattle to UP for slaughter after procuring them from Punjab and Haryana. ASI Rajesh Kumar said in the FIR ,“Late on Friday night, acting on a tip-off, a checking barrier was set up on Jalebi Pul in Shahabad. After some time, a rashly driven truck was spotted coming from Nalvi village. The vehicle was signaled with a torch to stop but the driver sped away, attempting to run the on-duty police staff over. The truck rammed a car, a horse carriage and an earth-moving machine. They fled towards Baba Markanda Temple and when we attempted to stop them after a brief chase, a person fired at the police from inside the running vehicle.” Shahabad SHO was called for back-up force. “The SHO joined us with his team and several attempts were made to stop the vehicle but they continued to shoot at the police. When they reached near Jandhera village, they stopped the vehicle and fled into an orchard on foot,” the complainant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cattle-smugglers-escape-after-shooting-at-police/articleshow/79598247.cms||JK Singh
December 7, 2020||Erode||Erode police recover 53 stolen cellphones||ERODE: Police have recovered 53 mobile phones that were stolen in the district in the past one month and returned them to their owners. Talking to reporters, district superintendent of police SP P Thangadurai said he had formed a special team after the cybercrime cell police received several complaints regarding mobile phone theft. “The team inquired with the complainants and gathered information like where and when they had lost the mobile phones and the mobile phone IMEI number.” The team, he said, worked round the clock and recovered 53 mobile phones worth Rs 6.33 lakh. “We returned them to their owners at an event.” Thangadurai said they had also recovered Rs 5.11 lakh that some miscreants had stolen from people by tricking them into sharing their bank account details with them. “The money was returned to them through banks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-police-recover-53-stolen-cellphones/articleshow/79598268.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris: 17 new Covid-19 cases recorded||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris saw an increase in active Covid-19 cases following a dip in recovery in the last few days. With an addition of 17 new cases, the number of active cases touched 210, while the tally stands at 7,578. The district has seen 7,326 patients recover so far. With a slight dip, the district registered a recovery rate of 96.6%. While seven patients are treated in government facilities in Coimbatore, 21 are admitted in private hospitals in the city. As many as 54 patients are kept in home quarantine, while the remaining cases are being treated in government facilities in the district, besides two Covid care centres.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-17-new-covid-19-cases-recorded/articleshow/79598270.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Former weightlifting chief coach to return Dronacharya Award and VSM||JALANDHAR: Pal Singh Sandhu, India’s first Dronacharya Award winner in weightlifting and former chief coach of weightlifting, announced that he would return his Dronacharya Award and Vishisht Seva Medal (VSM), which he received during his service in Navy. Sandhu remained national chief coach of men and women’s weightlifting and trained Kunjarani Devi, Malleswari Devi, Sanamacha Chanu and N S Laxmi. Sandhu, 80, said he felt very strongly that farmers were being wronged. “I am also from a farming family and moreover, people of my state and from other places are very agitated. They have been protesting for the last over two months and now they are staying in the cold nights on the borders of Delhi,” he said. Sandhu was given Dronacharya Award in 1996. While many former sports stars of the country have announced to return their awards, this will be the first case in which a Vishisht Seva Medal is being returned. He started competing in weight lifting in 1961 while serving in the Navy and was awarded the VSM during service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-weightlifting-chief-coach-to-return-dronacharya-award-and-vsm/articleshow/79598274.cms||IP Singh
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP MLA Ramkumar Gautam comes out in farmers’ support||HISAR: Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) MLA from Narnaund constituency in Hisar district, Ramkumar Gautam has announced support for the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the new agricultural laws. Gautam appealed to the central government to immediately withdraw the three agricultural laws. Gautam has become the third JJP MLA after Shahbad MLA Ramkaran Kala and Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag to support the farmers’ protest. The Nanrnaund MLA urged all political parties of Haryana to come together on the issue and pass a resolution requesting the Centre to accept farmers’ demands at the earliest. Gautam said in view of the situation at this time, the government should not wait for December 9 and repeal the law immediately as children and the elderly are sitting on the Tikri border in cold weather. He said if the government takes farmers lightly, there will be losses. Earlier, JJP’s Shahbad MLA Ramkaran Kala and Barwala MLA Jogi Ram Sihag announced their support to the farmers’ issue. While Kala offered to resign to support the farmers agitation, Sihag refused to take over a chairman of Housing Board Haryana post to express solidarity with farmers. JJP state president Nishan Singh was approached three times about the matter but he did not talk about the issue. JJP holds the key The Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is the BJP’s key ally in Haryana. While BJP has 40 seats, JJP has 10 seats in the 90-member Haryana assembly. Seven independent MLAs also supported the government and Ranjit Singh is the power minister. Balraj Kundu had already withdrawn his support, while Sombir Sangwan has withdrawn his support in the wake of the farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-mla-ramkumar-gautam-comes-out-in-farmers-support/articleshow/79598307.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain lashes Nilgiris; trees uprooted in Ooty||Udhagamandalam: As incessant rain lashed the Nilgiris, three trees were uprooted in Ooty taluk, brining traffic to a halt for hours. Fire rescue personnel have cleared the trees from the roads and restored the vehicular movement.According to an official source, Ooty, Coonoor and Kotagiri taluks received comparatively heavy rain, while Pandalur and Gudalur taluks recorded only scant showers.Hulical village in Coonoor taluk received the highest rainfall of 20mm during the 24 hours that ended at 7am on Sunday, while Ooty and Kodanadu registered 11.8mm and 14.5mm rain, respectively.The Nilgiris has been receiving continuous rain since Thursday. Thummanhatty and Iduhatty roads were blocked on Saturday night after two huge trees were uprooted.Ravikumar, station head of Ooty branch of fire and rescue services, said, “Once we received the news, we cut the fallen trees immediately and removed them from the roads within 15 minutes. A tree was also uprooted on Ooty-Gudalur highway road near Ooty, affecting the traffic. That one was also cleared.”The incessant rain has also hit the construction work in the hills. According to revenue officials, there was no report of damage to houses or landslips in the district. Disaster management teams comprising fire service, highways, revenue and forest department officials and volunteers are patrolling the vulnerable areas.Motorists, meanwhile, found it very difficult to navigate through the ghat roads, which were covered with thick mist. The maximum temperature recorded was 14Celsius.The district administration officials said there was nothing to be alarmed about and there was only moderate rainfall. “The disaster management machinery is in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-lashes-nilgiris-trees-uprooted-in-ooty/articleshow/79598292.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Coimbatore||Min: Centre will ensure Salem Steel Plant employees’ welfare||Salem: Union minister of state for steel Faggan Singh Kulaste on Sunday assured that the welfare of the employees of Salem Steel Plant would be protected even as he refused to comment on the privatization of the plant. However, he said, steps were being taken to run the Salem steel plant in a profitable manner. He was in the city to pay tribute to Dr B R Ambedkar on his 64th death anniversary.“The Union government and my department will not work against the employees’ welfare. The BJP government will protect them.”The minister also held a meeting with the steel plant officials.Earlier in the day, Faggan Singh Kulaste had garlanded Dr Ambedkar’s statue on Cherry Road near Mulluvadi railway gate in the city. He said Ambedkar had dedicated his entire life for the scheduled people and his sacrifices had to be remembered on his death anniversary.The minister said the BJP government had been working on turning Ambedkar’s birth place, death place and the places where he studied and lived as monuments. “They will be opened for the public soon.”The minister was accompanied by Tamil Nadu scheduled tribe wing in charge Ramasamy, state secretary of the scheduled tribe Suresh Kumar, district BJP president Suresh Babu, party general secretary Sasikumar, east district BJP president Manikandan and other party functionaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/min-centre-will-ensure-salem-steel-plant-employees-welfare/articleshow/79598309.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mouth-battering: Corona’s oral impact in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: It’s not just the lungs or heart or other internal organs that are bearing the brunt of the Covid-19 infection, it could also be your teeth! City-based experts said that the recovered Covid patients are also showing signs of distress when it comes to fungal infection of jaws or bleeding in gums. Dr Arvind Agarwal, an oral-maxillofacial surgeon in Ahmedabad and former professor at a dental college in Visnagar, said that some of the recovered patients had fungal infection of jaws. “Those with co-morbidities such as diabetes and those who have received high doses of steroids are more vulnerable. It gets developed as the patient’s immunity is low,” he said, adding that the infection, identified as mucormycosis of jaw, spreads fast and can infect gums, bone and dental tissues. The teeth in affected patients can be painful and bleeding of gums is also reported. The experts also pointed at poor oral hygiene for the patients who are on prolonged oxygen or ventilator and they develop infection in the mouth. Dr Milan Dalal, a city-based dental surgeon, said that in conditions like cancer or treatment involving bisphosphonet drugs, the necrosis (death of body tissue) of bones is observed. “Covid-19 affects the blood supply and severe infection can cause similar effect. As the blood vessels get narrower, even a milder infection like dental decay can get aggravated,” he said, adding that the infection can flare up or spread fast. “It is advisable to maintain oral health during and after the infection and also consult experts when experiencing acute pain or discomfort.” Courts to stay closed in honour of Justice Udhwani The Gujarat high court on Sunday announced that all courts across the state will remain closed on Monday due to the demise of sitting high court judge, Justice G R Udhwani. The chief justice declared the holiday for the high court as well as subordinate courts. On Monday, the high court has planned to hold a full court reference to pay tribute to Justice Udhwani, who died of Covid-19 complications on Saturday. All the judges, government law officers and Bar members will participate in the programme that will be held online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mouth-battering-coronas-oral-impact/articleshow/79598333.cms||Parth Shastri
December 7, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab gives Rs 5 lakh cheque to farmer’s family||BATHINDA: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla handed a Rs 5-lakh cheque to the famiy of farmer Dhanna Singh of Khiali Chahla village in Mansa district, who passed away while participating in the ongoing protest against farm laws. Singla gave the cheque to the deceased farmer’s wife, Manjit Kaur. Dhanna died in a road accident on November 27, while going to Delhi on a tractor. Also, two farmers accompanying him sustained injuries in the accident. Singla said the Punjab government always stood firm with farmers, their families and farmer associations. He said Dhanna had lost his life for the rights of farmers. He said the Punjab government was committed to providing quality education to the children of the deceased farmer and treatment to injured farmers Baljinder Singh and Jagtar Singh. Singla said Punjab government, from the beginning, had taken stern action against the black laws passed by PM Narendra Modi government and working to address the grievances of farmers and farmer associations as Punjab was the first state in the country where all three laws were repealed. At the same time, a new law was enacted under which there was a provision of imprisonment of up to three years to anyone who bought crops below MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-gives-rs-5l-cheque-to-farmers-family/articleshow/79598316.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand lost 50,000 hectares forest land to developmental activities in last 20 years||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand, birthplace of the country’s major rivers like Ganga and Yamuna and home to the Himalayan ranges, is rapidly losing its forest land to commercial activities. Data of forest department exclusively accessed by TOI has revealed that the state, which has over 70% forest land, has lost about 50,000 hectares of its forests to various developmental activities in the past 20 years. The top six activities for which around 21,207 hectares of forest land in the state has been diverted are mining, hydropower plants, road construction, power distribution lines, water pipelines and irrigation. The highest amount of forest cover has been lost to mining (8760 ha) followed by road construction (7539 ha), power distribution lines (2332 ha) and hydropower plant projects (2295 ha). Other smaller activities together claimed 20,998 hectares of forest cover, the data reveals. The other activities comprise of laying down of optical fibres, railways, defence works, rehabilitation, construction of buildings etc. A district-wise analysis (from November 2000 to March 2020) shows that Dehradun (21303 ha) lost the maximum forest area, followed by Haridwar district which lost 6826 hectares (mainly to mining activities), Chamoli (3636 ha), Tehri (2671 ha) and Pithoragarh (2451 ha). This diversion of forest land for commercial activities is alarming when seen in the backdrop of the latest report of the Forest Survey of India (India State Forest Report 2019) which indicates that three districts, namely – Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar – have already seen negative growth in their forest cover — of -6.44, -4.21 and -2.75 respectively — from 2017 to 2019. While reacting to the figures, Doon-based environmentalist and Padma Bhushan awardee Anil Joshi told TOI, “It’s shocking to know these numbers. How can we ask for ‘green bonus’ from the Centre, as the state has been demanding, when we are not sensitive about our green cover? Simply planting any tree, anywhere in any zone will not recreate the same kind of forests again ever in the Himalayas. It is one of the most vulnerable and ecologically-sensitive zones of the country and needs to be conserved on priority.” Uttarakhand’s forest cover is spread over around 38,000 sq km, which is 71% of the state’s geographical area. The state has 112 species of trees, 73 species of shrubs and 94 species of herbs, all of which, scientists say, are now facing ‘the heat of development activities.’ “Forestry is all about multiple herbs, shurbs and trees existing for a place to turn into an eco-system. If it is lost, it will take years on end for the same kind of habitat to re-germinate,” said N Bala, head of the department of forest ecology and climate change division at the Forest Research Institute, Dehradun. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation authorities when queried about the rampant allocation of forest land for commercial activities especially mining, claimed that the land used for mining was “under strict check.” “We strictly adhere to the norms of the central government as per which mining has to be conducted only after due environmental clearances and in a sustainable manner and only upto a certain depth. Also, to ensure that the labourers deployed in mining activities don’t rely on forests for fuelwood, we give them funds through welfare schemes,” said Vinod Kumar, managing director of Uttarakhand Forest Development Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-lost-50k-hectares-forest-land-to-developmental-activities-in-last-20-years/articleshow/79596179.cms||Shivani Azad
December 7, 2020||Dehradun||UBSE holds D.El.Ed entrance exams, 69% turnout recorded||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) held the entrance exams for the Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed), 2020, on Friday. The examination saw a turnout of nearly 69% applicants. The exams were held at 184 centres across the state in which a total of 27,920 candidates appeared. Meanwhile, as many as 12,570 candidates gave it a miss. The Garhwal Zone had 24,144 registered candidates, out of which 15,816 visited the exam centres while the Kumaon Zone had 16,346 candidates, out of which 12,104 appeared for the entrance exams. The Garhwal and Kumaon zones noted 8,328 and 4,242 absent students respectively. In Dehradun, 4,148 out of 5,978 students appeared for the exams in the 31 centres located across the district. And though the Covid-19 guidelines were strictly followed while conducting the entrance exams, the primary reason for more than 30% of the registered candidates across the state giving the exams a miss this year is told to be the pandemic. Notably, D.El.Ed is a two-year-long course after which graduates are appointed as primary class teachers in state government-run schools. However, the state government has, for the past few years, struggled in appointing D.El.Ed graduates. This has even led to intensive protests from the youths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-holds-d-el-ed-entrance-exams-69-turnout-recorded/articleshow/79596163.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire safety checks at 180+ hospitals in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state government has appointed a five-member committee on fire safety for Covid hospitals following fatal fire accidents in Ahmedabad and Rajkot hospitals. Till Sunday evening, the team completed the inspections of 18 hospitals in Ahmedabad. In the committee are M F Dastoor, the chief fire officer, and Rajesh Bhatt, the additional chief fire officer, of the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services. The others are H H Khoja, the chief electricity inspector; Dr Chetna Desai, GM (equipment maintenance) from the state medical services; and Ashutosh Parmar, assistant director, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). A senior official told TOI that the team will take into consideration several aspects of fire safety at hospitals, keeping in mind the lessons from the past accidents. “The fire department NOC alone cannot guarantee safety,” said the official. “Training of the on-ground staff, awareness about the functioning of fire hydrants, clearing the roads, and proper ventilation are equally crucial.” The official added: “Thus, the focus is on contingency plan, exit points, and electricity load, along with the traditional aspects of fire safety.” The team has been asked to cover over 180 major hospitals treating Covid patients in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot in two weeks. The committee will submit its report and recommendations in the third week. Probe panel to visit Shrey Hospital Justice (retd) K A Puj of the probe panel inquiring the Shrey Hospital fire tragedy is likely to visit the hospital building on Monday. The retired judicial officer has been inquiring into the incident of fire in which eight Covid-19 patients had died on August 6. The inquiry commission was set up by the government on August 11. The state government also assigned the task of inquiry into the fire incident in Rajkot’s Covid hospital to Justice Puj, but two days after the announcement, the decision was withdrawn on the ground that the retired judge has other responsibilities. He also heads the Fee Regulatory Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-safety-checks-at-180-hospitals/articleshow/79598365.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Wanted for 19 years, SIMI activist held from Delhi's Zakir Nagar||NEW DELHI: Abdullah Danish, an alleged senior member of the erstwhile Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), was arrested from Zakir Nagar in southeast Delhi on December 5 by Special Cell of Delhi Police. He was wanted for nearly 19 years in a sedition case and under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. DCP (Special Cell) Pramod Kushwaha said Danish (58) had been declared a proclaimed offender in 2002 by a court after he remained untraced. He and many others had fled the SIMI headquarters in Jamia Nagar during a raid in 2001. He allegedly radicalised Indian Mujahideen terrorists Abdus Subhan Qureshi alias Tauqeer and Abu Bashar. The duo was a part of the IM module that carried out the Ahmedabad serial blasts in 2008. Kushwaha said, “Danish indoctrinated dozens of Muslim youths over the past 25 years. He was one of the most elusive members of the outfit that was banned in 2001.” A team led by inspector Shiv Kumar had been tracking Danish for over a year after getting tip-offs about his movements in Delhi-NCR and various cities in UP. “We got inputs that Danish was trying to radicalise Muslim youths to mobilise against CAA and NRC and propagating hardcore radical ideology to create disharmony among religious groups. He was falsely propagating atrocities being committed upon Muslims by the government by using fake videos,” said Kushwaha. Danish completed his MA in Arabic from Aligarh Muslim University in 1985. “At Aligarh, the epicenter of SIMI’s activities at the time, he came in contact with some operatives and became highly radicalised. He allegedly joined SIMI, started attending its weekly programmes and also radicalised Muslim youths to join the outfit,” said the DCP. Impressed by his zeal, Ashraf Jafri, the then SIMI president, made Danish the chief editor of the Hindi edition of the SIMI magazine “Islamic Movement” in 1988 for four years during which he wrote many provocative articles. Later, he was given a room in the SIMI headquarters at Zakir Nagar. “During interrogation, Danish revealed that Bashar had stayed in his house at Aligarh after the Ahmedabad blasts. On his motivation, Tauqeer ran training camps for SIMI cadres in Kerala and Karnataka. Danish also admitted to having visited many places in UP, MP, Gujarat, etc to motivate youths to join SIMI,” said Kushwaha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wanted-for-19-yrs-simi-activist-held-from-zakir-nagar/articleshow/79598391.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||Rs20cr for 175 gardens: City’s green lungs wilt under NMC’s fund crunch||Nagpur: Public gardens across the city, the only affordable source for recreation for the people, particularly senior citizens and children, have nothing much to offer as most of the paraphernalia and facilities are in a bad shape since long. Reason: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has no funds for the upkeep of these gardens. “Against 175 gardens, the NMC has allocated Rs20 crore for maintenance. This makes an average Rs11 lakh provision for the maintenance of each garden. This fund is insufficient,” said a senior official from the garden department. Deputy municipal commissioner (garden department) Amol Chorpagar was not available for comments. The official pointed out that in the last financial year, the NMC had provided Rs30 crore for the maintenance and renovation of the gardens. The then municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had increased the fund by almost Rs10 crore in his civic budget for 2020-21, which was sufficient for the upkeep of the green lungs of the city, said the official. However, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke reduced the provision by almost 50% and brought it down to Rs20 crore, he added. The Rs20 crore could have been manageable if the NMC had to maintain only its gardens. Before Mundhe became the civic chief, the civic body used to own around 131 gardens. But after he took over the charge, Mundhe brought 44 more gardens managed by Nagpur Improvement Trust under NMC’s possession. This move increased the financial burden on the already cash-strapped civic body, pointed out the official. Due to lack of funds, the NMC is finding it difficult to carry out repairs, tree plantation and maintenance works in all gardens. Barring a few gardens, the NMC is unable to carry out even horticulture or landscaping works. The official also pointed out that the NMC carries out maintenance as well as upgrading open spaces into gardens across the city. The fund crunch has hit development of at least five gardens, including Lata Mangeshkar Garden, he admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs20cr-for-175-gardens-citys-green-lungs-wilt-under-nmcs-fund-crunch/articleshow/79597042.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Expose corruption: Ahmedabad association to members||AHMEDABAD: After a private doctor was caught demanding Rs 15 lakh to clear bills amounting to Rs 1.5 crore from a city-based Covid-19 hospital, the city hospitals’ association on Sunday convened a meeting. The doctor had been nabbed by the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB).  The officials of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) requested member hospitals to approach the association to bring out ‘corrupt practices happening in Covid management.’ Dr Bharat Gadhvi, the president of AHNA, said that there are only a handful of officials involved in malpractices and the overall experience has been very good. “AHNA also wants to reiterate that if any member facility is found involved in corruption, the association will not hesitate to take action,” he said. Gujarat ACB director Keshav Kumar said the ACB is grateful that AHNA is standing up to fight Covid corruption and coming forward to register the complaint. “The ACB assures all help,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/expose-corruption-ahna-to-members/articleshow/79598441.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Business||Dabur, Marico lock horns after CSE report on honey||NEW DELHI: The Centre of Science and Environment’s (CSE’s) recent report on the alleged adulteration of honey by several brands in India has led to a slugfest between homegrown FMCG giants Dabur and Marico in the highly competitive Rs 800-crore branded honey segment. Marico, which sells the Saffola honey brand, told TOI that it had raised similar doubts about the purity of Dabur’s honey with ad industry watchdog Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) in October, which led to the organisation upholding complaints. But Dabur said it has conducted tests of its own on Saffola’s honey and will lodge complaints with relevant authorities. “Marico filed an intra-industry complaint dated October 1, 2020, before ASCI, against ‘NMR-tested (nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy) pure honey’ claim by Dabur for its product Dabur Honey. The claim ‘NMR-tested’ was considered false and misleading by implication and omission and upheld under Chapter 1.4 of the ASCI Code,” said a Marico India spokesperson. Subsequently, after findings of the CSE report were published, Marico filed another complaint before ASCI on December 3, 2020 where it challenged the claim made by Dabur India that “Dabur Honey has passed the German NMR test”. “The complaint has been admitted by ASCI and taken on record for further hearing,” said the Marico spokesperson. In retaliation, Dabur, which claims that it controls half of the branded honey market in India, said it will file a complaint in ASCI against Marico. Dabur alleged that a Saffola Honey sample from the market has failed the NMR test. “Test reports clearly indicate the presence of sugar syrup in Saffola honey. Their claim on NMR test is misleading the consumers,” said a Dabur India spokesperson. On the allegations by Dabur, the Marico spokesperson said, “Every batch of Saffola Honey passes 60+ tests, including the NMR technology… is also compliant with each of the quality parameters mandated by FSSAI (Food Safety and Standards Authority of India).” In response to a questionnaire e-mailed by TOI, ASCI said it processed four complaints in the honey category this year, two of which were related to claims based on NMR testing of honey. “Overall, three out of the four complaints were upheld as they were found to be in contravention of ASCI codes,” said an ASCI spokesperson. “Any further complaints received will be subject to the same rigorous scrutiny as these earlier cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dabur-marico-lock-horns-after-cse-report-on-honey/articleshow/79599544.cms||John Sarkar
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Irresponsibility amid pandemic: 21 lakh paid fines in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Cops are stunned by the price people have paid for irresponsible behavior: from June till December, 21.40 lakh Gujarat citizens have coughed up Rs 93.56 crore in fines for breaching corona norms. Even last week, when courts became strict about adherence to Covid guidelines, 56,144 people across Gujarat paid fines to the tune of Rs 5.57 crore. These offenders were caught without masks or nabbed for spitting in public. So far in the period concerned, 4.92 lakh vehicles have been seized in the state for corona-code violations; last week, 5,367 vehicles were impounded. In all, from June to December, 60,400 cases have been filed under Section 188 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) for disregarding notifications. The figure for last week was 2,713. A police official said that despite the crackdown, many people are not following Coved-protocol. That statement is borne out by the number of offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/irresponsibility-virus-21l-paid-fines/articleshow/79598443.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Night curfew may be extended in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The night curfew imposed in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, and Surat could be extended further. According to senior police officials, an informal meeting was held on Sunday between the police brass and government officers. The attendees discussed the prospect of extending the night curfew till the month-end or till the Covid-19 situation improves. A police official said that the night curfew notification was valid till December 7 and hence the notification to extend the night curfew could be issued by Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/night-curfew-may-be-extended/articleshow/79598436.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Nagpur||With security reduced, city gardens turn haven for anti-socials||Nagpur: Residents of Uday Nagar are irked over the administration’s apathy in maintaining the only public garden in their area. They claim the children's play area and toilets in the garden are in a bad shape and many anti-social elements were misusing the place. “Both the civic body and the city police have turned a blind eye towards the illegal activities like consumption of liquor and gambling by miscreants inside Uday Nagar garden,” said Sanjay Chavan, a local resident. He claimed several complaints had been made to Hudkeshwar police station but in vain. TOI too spotted some youths at the Uday Nagar garden gate. According to residents, these youths indulge in illegal activities inside the garden. They even trouble children visiting the garden so parents have now stopped sending them to play there, claimed residents. Due to lack of security guards and caretakers, most gardens in city are facing similar problems. “Today many gardens are not safe for children and women especially during evenings,” said P Vijay, a resident of Nandanwan. A senior official from NMC’s garden department admitted that they had received complaints about illegal activities in the garden. “But we are helpless,” he said pointing out that for 175 gardens, NMC had only 94 guards and most are deployed in mornings when gardens are open for the public. At most places, we also found the locks and even gates of gardens broken. There is no one to take care of these public places, was the general opinion of local citizens. Rest of the time the gardens are locked. During this period, anti-social elements easily get in by jumping over the gates or fence. The garden in Nandanwan is a glaring example. TOI spotted liquor bottles thrown at many places, condom packets were also found in bushes etc. According to residents, in the past NIT had two guards deployed in two shifts of 12 hours each. It helped in checking illegal activities. Since removal of one guard, the garden has become a haven for such activities during evening hours, said the residents. It is same at other gardens. Youths visit them in groups and consume liquor till late hours. One can easily spot such activities every day but local maintain silence fearing consequences. “We have met senior cops and urged them to take action against the anti-social elements. Though police patrol the area in the night, they should focus on gardens as it will help in curbing crimes in the city,” was the general opinion of citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-security-reduced-city-gardens-turn-haven-for-anti-socials/articleshow/79597059.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bareilly||3 armed men rob fuel station in Shamli||MEERUT: Three men entered the cashier’s room of a petrol pump in Shamli district and took away all the cash after holding the staffers and others present inside hostage on Saturday evening. In the footage of CCTV cameras, the three men who were wearing masks can be seen brandishing the guns and beating the cashier. Sukirti Madhav Mishra, superintendent of police, Shamli, said, “Three miscreants looted money from a petrol pump. The looted amount is yet to be ascertained, but salesman claimed they took away around Rs 7,000. The assailants could not break into the cashbox.” SP Mishra also said that police have landed on an important lead and the case would be cracked soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-armed-men-rob-fuel-station-in-shamli/articleshow/79596209.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Hyderabad||K Chandrasekhar Rao too backs farmers, tells TRS cadre to make bandh a success in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday extended his party’s full support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by farmers on December 8 opposing the three agriculture acts brought by the central government. KCR’s open support to the farmers against the Narendra Modi government comes after BJP won 48 seats in the just-concluded civic polls and said it was preparing the ground for the 2023 assembly polls in the state. The Congress and Left parties here have already announced their support to the Bharat bandh, while the AMIM has said they are always with farmers. KCR asked TRS cadre to directly participate in the bandh and appealed to people of Telangana to make the bandh a success and stand by the farmers. Highlighting that farmers were waging a just fight against the agricultural laws brought by the Centre, KCR reminded that TRS opposed the agriculture bills in Parliament. “They are harmful to the interests of the farmers and the fight needs to continue until the new agricultural laws are repealed,” KCR said. Earlier, the chief minister was severely criticised by the Congress and Left parties for not going all out against the new laws and putting up just a token resistance in Parliament. KCR’s strong stand against the BJP on this issue is also being viewed as the first step towards retrieving the lost ground and further strengthening the party at the grass roots with an eye on the assembly elections. Going a step ahead, TRS working president and municipal affairs minister K T Rama Rao along with agriculture minister Singireddy Niranjan Reddy asked the party MPs, MLCs, MLAs and other elected representatives and cadre to stage rasta rokos on national highways. “The three farm acts are black acts in the history of farmers’ struggle. The TRS had opposed the farm bills in the Parliament but the central government passed these bills in Rajya Sabha as they had the numbers. The TRS will stand by the farmers to have these anti-farmer acts withdrawn,” KTR said. For the past over week, farmers are fighting against the Modi government, braving the biting chill in Delhi. “The TRS party salutes these farmers. The rank and file of the TRS party should participate in the bandh to express solidarity with the farmers,” he said. KTR asked the Rythu Bandhu Samithi members to enlighten the farmers in the state about the new farm acts and explain to them how the central government was giving on a platter the agriculture sector to corporates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-too-backs-farmers-tells-trs-cadre-to-make-bandh-a-success-in-t/articleshow/79599134.cms||Roushan Ali
December 7, 2020||Meerut||Bike-borne men snatch trader’s bag with jewellery ‘worth Rs 20 lakh’||MEERUT: A jeweller was robbed of his bag containing gold ornaments on a busy city stretch on Sunday morning. The jeweller, Pramod Kumar, claimed that he was carrying 400gram gold worth Rs 20lakh when he was waylaid by bike-borne assailants, and looted. In his complaint to police, Kumar suspected the role of his accomplice, Leeladhar, who was travelling with him when the incident took place. Police have formed four teams to identify and trace the accused. “The jeweller complained that he was carrying his daughter’s 300gram gold jewellery and 75gram gold belonging to traders in Agra. He was in an auto-rickshaw with his acquaintance Leeladhar when the bag was snatched,” a police officer said. Meerut’s superintendent of police (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh said that four teams have been pressed into action to work out the case at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bike-borne-men-snatch-traders-bag-with-jewellery-worth-rs-20l/articleshow/79596210.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh seeks priority allocation of Covid vax||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking priority allocation of Covid-19 vaccine to the state on account of its high mortality rate due to its population age profile and high co-morbidities. In his letter, the chief minister appraised the Prime Minister about the higher fatality rate due to Covid in Punjab despite its relatively low case load. He said the state needed special dispensation in the allocation of vaccine. He said vaccines currently under consideration would not perhaps reduce transmission so much as prevent serious illness in the most susceptible groups, including elderly and persons with high morbidity. The chief minister also sought clarity on whether the Covid-19 vaccination would be entirely funded by the central government, including the cost of vaccines and vaccination supplies. He also asked for clarity on principles based on which the prioritised groups are to be identified for sequential immunisation phases and to leave the preparation of the list (of prioritised groups) to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-cm-seeks-priority-allocation-of-covid-vax/articleshow/79598480.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chandigarh||12 out of 100 tested for Covid in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Going solely by numbers, Punjab has tested 12% of its population for Covid-19. The state has posted an improvement of over 26% in the coverage of testing in a period of one month, according to the government data. However, the average number of tests conducted per day fell short of the daily testing target of 30,000 set by the state government. From November 2 to December 2, a total of 6,05,638 people were tested using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid antigen tests, an average of 20,187 tests a day. As on December 2, 3,242,455 tests were conducted, of which 1,53,760 people tested positive. In the state, 13 districts have shown improvement by testing more than the state’s average of 9.51 tests per 100 recorded on November 2. Of these districts, nine districts carried out more tests than the current state average of 12 people out of 100 as on December 2. In Kapurthala and Jalandhar, the testing ratio per 100 stands at 17, followed by Pathankot and Ludhiana where 15 people of every 100 have been tested, 14 in Nawanshahr, 13 in Ropar, Hoshiarpur and Patiala. Faridkot, Muktsar, Fazilka, Ferozepur and Mansa are among the districts lagging behind. Fazilka has the lowest ratio of five, Ferozepur and Moga have seven, and nine in Faridkot and Mansa. As testing is considered as one of the most vital factors in controlling the spread of the coronavirus by identifying infected people early and isolating them, the state government has ramped up the daily test capacity of RT-PCR test from 19,750 to 26,750. The increase in capacity will help the health authorities to further increase testing. Of the total testing capacity, over 98% is done in seven state government-run institutes and remaining in the Government of India facilities and private accredited laboratories. The state-run facilities are GMCH Patiala (7,000), GMC Amritsar (7,000), GGMCH Faridkot (7,000), GADVASU Ludhiana, RDDL Jalandhar, Punjab Biotech Incubator Mohali (1,500) and Forensic Science Lab Mohali (1000). PGIMER (150)and CSIR-IMTECH Chandigarh (100) are the two central government testing laboratories. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said Punjab was testing more than the national average and the World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines. The state had consistently shown improvement in testing, the numbers will further go up, he said. “Directions have been issued to districts, which are lagging behind, to test more people,” Dr Bhaskar added. Focus on RT-PCR Punjab is testing people more with RT-PCR than rapid antigen tests which is a quicker testing method but less accurate. More than 70% of daily tests are done using the conventional RT-PCR test, which is considered a gold standard in the diagnosis of Covid‐19 and its results are processed in 24 hours. Rapid antigen tests results come within 15 minutes but have an accuracy of about 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12-out-of-100-tested-for-covid-in-punjab/articleshow/79598457.cms||Vinod Kumar
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||One more arrested in SoU fraud case||Vadodara: The Narmada police on Saturday made another arrest in the sensational case of siphoning off revenues earned by the Statue of Unity. Bhavesh Parmar, who works with Writers Business Services Pvt Ltd (WBSL), was nabbed by the cops on Saturday. Investigating officials have already arrested two other WBSL employees in connection with the Rs 5.24 crore cheating case. “These three were responsible for ferrying the cash from SoU to the bank and they siphoned the money en route,” said Vani Dudhat, DySP, Kevadia. The police said that it is trying to ascertain how the accused could siphon the cash so cladestinely while every transaction is usually accounted by the bank. One of the accused Ashish Joshi, who works as supervisor at WBSL, is supposed to have masterminded the crime while Jayraj Solanki and Bhavesh Parmar helped him. The cops are questioning to the trio to trace the cash. HDFC had hired WBSL to collect cash from SoU in Kevadia and deposit it in their bank account in the city. But last month, the bank officials noticed a difference between the cash deposit slips and the amount mentioned in the bank account of SoU. The bank then began internal investigation and learnt that employees of the cash collection and management agency were involved in siphoning off the cash. They collected cash from the SoU but didn’t deposit the full amount in the bank. HDFC then registered a complaint of cheating and criminal conspiracy against WBSL on November 30. The agency employees have been accused of siphoning a portion of the revenues generated by the SoU between November 2018 and March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-more-arrested-in-sou-fraud-case/articleshow/79595877.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Five spots in Ranchi to dump your e-waste, courtesy RMC||Ranchi: The surge in use of electronic gadgets during the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown prompted Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) to take steps towards effective handling and disposal of e-waste and other hazardous domestic wastes in the capital. As an initial step, RMC on Saturday set up five dedicated spots for collection/disposition of e-waste and other domestic hazardous wastes such as packaging materials of cosmetic products, bulbs and others. The five identified points were set up at mini-transfer stations at Nagababa Khatal opposite Raj Bhavan, Harmu, Morhabadi, Kantatoli and Khelgaon. RMC deputy municipal corporation Shankar Yadav said the move is a part of the endeavour towards effective management of solid waste in the city. “Under the solid waste management rules 2016, wastes have to be segregated as bio-degradable, non-biodegradable, recyclable and domestic hazardous. However, there also exists e-waste management rules 2016, and we have started working towards it,” he said, adding that all the five spots will function between 10am and 2pm daily. What about their disposal? Yadav said, “We are currently starting a drive to collect such waste while we are also working towards their scientific disposal by roping in specialised agencies as per the government rules.” Globally, e-waste is one of the biggest environmental concerns considering over dependence on electronic gadgets and accessories. During the nationwide lockdown, sale of electronics such as mobiles and its associated accessories have seen a boom due to a rise in remote working and online tutoring besides beating lockdown blues. Ironically, Jharkhand is still to have enough mechanism for safe and scientific disposal of electronic waste despite the spurt in usage of electronic items. Tata Steel’s civic utility arm, Jusco, along with Kolkata-based Hulladek Recycling set up the state’s first private e-waste centre on Birupa Road in Sakchi last year. A few years back, the state pollution board had given an NOC to another agency to set up an e-waste handling shop in Ramgarh. According to a study conducted by Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board in 2018, total generation of e-waste in Jharkhand is projected to rise to 12,56,624.59 tonne in 2025, a manifold growth compared to 46,033.60 tonne in 2015. Without enough options for proper disposal, such items currently land up with scrap dealers from households. Yadav hoped the situation will change soon with RMC taking an initiative to address the concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/five-spots-in-ranchi-to-dump-your-e-waste-courtesy-rmc/articleshow/79596917.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Fresh Cov cases below 100 in state||Ranchi: Fresh infections took a steep dip and came below 100 with 92 fresh cases on Sunday. The recoveries continued to outshine fresh infections with 134 across the state. Meanwhile, seven people died of the virus taking the death toll to 986. Among the seven, two deaths were reported from Dhanbad while East Singhbhum, Garhwa, Palamu, Ramagarh and Ranchi reported one each. As many as 12 districts reported fresh infections in single digits while Chatra, Giridih, Godda, Jamtara, Lohardaga, Pakur, Ramgarh, Sahibganj and Simdega reported zero cases. Ranchi and East Singhbhum reported 37 and 10 cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fresh-cov-cases-below-100-in-state/articleshow/79597069.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand edu dept picks 80 schools for centre of excellence tag for modern makeover||Gumla: As part of the state government’s endeavour to modernise the school system, the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) is planning to develop around 80 schools across the state as centres of excellence. JEPC’s administrative officer Jayant Mishra said, “In the first phase, 80 plus-two level schools will be taken up. Three schools from each of the 24 districts will be selected for the purpose while the rest eight will be English medium model schools across all divisions.” In Gumla, SS+ 2 High School, SS Girls School and Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidhyalaya have been selected. The district’s additional programme officer, Piyush Kumar, said the move change the scenario in government schools. All the 80 schools will be equipped with facilities at par with the ones available in CBSE schools, “It will be a big step towards bringing about a complete change in schools under the holistic reform approach by focusing on providing quality education,” he said, adding, “We are planning to set up model schools in each of the 245 rural block headquarters and 62 urban local body areas.” School education and literacy mission secretary Rahul Sharma said the objective is to help the government school students so that they can compete with the private schools. “The department is chalking out an elaborate strategy to improve the teaching methods in government-run schools and make it more student-friendly,” he added. He further said that the department is looking into the problems faced by the teachers so that the latter can conduct classes regularly and complete the syllabus before exams. “We are working on a proper monitoring system to ensure that the new plan can be executed well,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-edu-dept-picks-80-schools-for-centre-of-excellence-tag-for-modern-makeover/articleshow/79596974.cms||K A Gupta
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Hit streets on Dec 8: Jharkhand CM to JMM workers||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) has extended its support to the Bharat bandh called by farmers protesting against the recently enacted farm laws in the Delhi-Haryana border, on December 8. On Sunday, JPCC president Rameshwar Oraon issued directives to all the party workers, asking them to hit the streets on Tuesday in order to make the bandh “a grand success”. “Party workers - right from the state to the block level – have been asked to hit the streets on December 8 in solidarity with the farmers and demand for the roll back of such draconian laws,” Oraon said, adding, “Congress has been holding several protests since September, both at the state and national level, against the central laws.” “The laws are an attempt to end minimum support price given to farmers and corporatise farming which will push the farmers on the brink of further hardships. We will continue to fight tooth and nail till our demands are met,” he said. Meanwhile, like Congress, several parties in Jharkhand have come out in support of the farmers. On Sunday, a joint delegation of Left parties and two members of the grand alliance — Congress and RJD — held a protest march in Albert Ekka Chowk against the laws. JMM, which is the leading partner in the grand alliance, has criticized the laws with the party working president and chief minister, Hemant Soren, terming them as an attack on the country’s annadata (provider). A few days ago, when asked about the ongoing farmers’ protest along the Delhi borders, Hemant said that he felt sorry seeing scores of farmers hitting the streets to safeguard their rights. Several Left parties, on the other hand, have organised protest marches on the issue in the last few days. On Friday, they organised a candlelight march across block and district headquarters in the run up to their upcoming state-wide chakka jam on December 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hit-streets-on-dec-8-jharkhand-cm-to-jmm-workers/articleshow/79596891.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Only 19 +ve cases in week-long Bokaro testing drive||Bokaro: The special testing drive rolled out by the district administration at the toll plaza on NH-23 and at Bokaro railway station a week ago has seen only 19 positive case of Covid-19, officials said on Sunday. Bokaro civil surgeon, Dr A K Pathak said the drive was being held for a week to scan people entering the district, mainly from Bihar. He said, “There were very few positive cases identified during the testing drive and this is a good indication. All tests were done through rapid antigen kits. In the drive, 7,347 people were checked, including 3,894 at the railway station camp and 3,453 at the toll Plaza. Of them, only 19 persons tested positive, including 10 at the railway station and nine at the toll plaza.” He said the staff deployed at the toll plaza are mainly focusing on truck and bus drivers coming from Bihar and passengers in cars having registration numbers of Bihar and other states. Across the state, roughly around 1,800-2,000 samples are being collected on a daily basis. Majority of the positive cases are asymptomatic, said an official. Currently, Bokaro has only 97 active cases. Of the 6,167 people who tested positive since March, 6,013 were cured and 57 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/only-19-ve-cases-in-week-long-bokaro-testing-drive/articleshow/79596981.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi-Sasaram festival train to return from Dec 8||Daltonganj: The festival special train between Ranchi and Sasaram via Daltonganj will resume from December 8, a week after its termination, the railways have announced. The station superintendent of Daltonganj railway station, A K Tiwary said, “This train ran from November 15 to November 30. It was terminated citing low occupancy. The termination remained effective from December 1 to December 7.” The termination of the train had caused immense public outcry prompting Palamu MP V D Ram to take up the issue with the railway ministry. This train will start on December 8 from Ranchi. On December 9, it will start from Sasaram crossing through Daltonganj. However, journey by this train is not permitted without reservation. Sources said the reservation requirement has affected the occupancy of the train as the ticket prices were higher. Several commuters have urged the railways to allow passengers to travel with unreserved tickets on this train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-sasaram-festival-train-to-return-from-dec-8/articleshow/79597061.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Online classes pushed up mobile, laptop sales||Ranchi: With schools conducting classes online during the pandemic-induced lockdown, demand for electronic items like mobile phones, laptops and tabs witnessed an unusual spurt for sometime. Ravi Khemka, a shop owner in Ranchi, said, “Sale of mobile phones saw a sharp rise soon after the first phase of unlock began. Around 80% customers were students and teachers. The trend continued for several months before it became normal.” Khemka said online sales were also high as people could avail lucrative deals. Market sources said most parents opted for mid-range mobile phones ranging from Rs 8,000 to Rs 12,000. Another shopkeeper said initially they were not able to cope with the demand from students as stocks were limited. The sale of accessories like headphones and earphones also went up. Sidhant Sinha, a student of Class XII, said, “Almost all academic activities this year were carried out on mobile phones. This will continue till physical classes resume.” Shashank Shekhar, a senior teacher of Jawahar Vidya Mandir, Shyamli, said, “There is no doubt teachers had to upgrade themselves to take online classes. Although almost all teachers had android phones, several purchased new ones for smoother performance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/online-classes-pushed-up-mobile-laptop-sales/articleshow/79597114.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Four cattle-laden trucks seized in Ranchi||RANCHI: Police seized three trucks loaded with cattle near Bundu on Saturday evening. They said the drivers failed to produce the legal document required for transportation of cattle. “We have detained three drivers called Aslam Khan, Promod Yadav and Aftab Alam,” said Bundu SDPO Ajay Kumar, who led the team that made the seizure. Kumar said, “As many as 57 cows and 33 calves were being transported. They were being taken from Chausa in Bihar to Kolkata via Jamshepdur. However, one of the cows and 14 calves died due to stress and congestion during the journey.” He said that police are keeping an eye on the Ranchi-Jamshedpur Road to thwart illegal transportation of cattle from various parts of Jharkhand and Bihar to West Bengal. Police said that they would put a tag on the animals and distribute them among the locals for upkeep. The cattle would be returned if the drivers were able to furnish proper documents. In another operation, police seized a mini-truck carrying 14 cattle in Pithoria. A minor has been detained, while the driver managed to escape from the spot. Police said that the animals were being taken to West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/four-cattle-laden-trucks-seized-in-ranchi/articleshow/79597182.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Business||Venture debt co Alteria eyes Rs 1,000 crore fund||CHENNAI: Venture debt firm Alteria Capital is raising its second fund of Rs 1,000 crore with an overallotment (greenshoe) option of Rs 750 crore. The firm has got markets regulator Sebi’s approval, and expects the fund’s first close to be in the first half of 2021. It will be used to back startups across early and growth stages with cheques of up to Rs 150 crore. There will also be an allocation for debt products aimed at later-stage companies that have a differentiated risk profile. “We made three distributions even during Covid, which has been well received by investors in our first fund, many have already conveyed their keenness to participate in the second fund,” Vinod Murali, cofounder and managing partner of Alteria Capital, said. Venture debt has gained relevance after the pandemic and is in demand as entrepreneurs seek buffer capital and valuations do not meet expectations in equity funding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/venture-debt-co-alteria-eyes-rs-1000-crore-fund/articleshow/79599550.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 7, 2020||Business||RailTel plans Rs 700 crore IPO early next year||NEW DELHI: As part of the government’s disinvestment programme, public sector player RailTel is lining up a Rs 700-crore initial public offer (IPO) early next year, valuing the company at around Rs 3,000 crore. The IPO has been in the works for over a year but the building blocks are still being put in place, with the required number of independent directors still not on board, given the government slow appointment process. While RailTel CMD Puneet Chawla refused to comment on the IPO size, he told TOI that the Covid-related restrictions had helped boost the company’s business, with the prospects looking up in the coming months. The miniratna PSU is one of the largest neutral telecom infrastructure providers in the country, owning an optical fibre network on exclusive Right of Way (RoW) along the railway tracks. It also provides broadband telecom and multimedia networks across the country. Chawla said Railwire, which is a broadband service, has grown by around two-and-ahalf times in the last eight-nine months. “We will continue to grow exponentially. Similarly, we have dedicated leased line service which has been provided to various institutions, including 722 universities and colleges. Now this service will have to be provided to other institutions as they require this. We see tremendous demand and we will be upgrading our network capacity,” the RailTel chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/railtel-plans-rs-700-crore-ipo-early-next-year/articleshow/79599552.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Business||Oz co blocks ONGC arm’s bid in Senegal||NEW DELHI: Australian energy major Woodside Petroleum has exercised its right of first refusal (RoFR) to checkmate ONGC Videsh’s bid to buy 15% stake in a $4-billion Senegal oilfield. The move dashes the ONGC subsidiary’s hopes of its first bargain hunt in the aftermath of the April oil price crash. Sources told TOI that Woodside informed stakeholders and the Senegal government last week of its intention to preempt ONGC Videsh’s deal to acquire another Aussie firm FAR’s 15% in the Sangomar project with a matching offer, estimated at $111 million and further investment of $600 million. This is a similar move Woodside made in August to block Russian LukOil from buying independent Scottish explorer Cairn Energy’s 36.4% stake for $400 million. This has recently been cleared by the Senegal government. ONGC Videsh’s deal size, sources said, indicated more than 60% discount to LukOil’s offer for acquiring Cairn Energy’s stake A spokesperson for ONGC confirmed the development and said the company was evaluating its options but raising the offer for FAR’s stake was not one of them. “The acquisition by Woodside would be subject to satisfaction of some conditions precedent, including the approval of the government of Senegal,” the spokesperson said. TOI had reported on November 11 that ONGC Videsh’s deal would be subject to Woodside waiving its first right of refusal within 30 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oz-co-blocks-ongc-arms-bid-in-senegal/articleshow/79599554.cms||Sanjay Dutta
December 7, 2020||World||No end in sight to Nepal ruling party dispute, Oli skips key meet||KATHMANDU: Nepalese PM K P Sharma Oli, one of the chairmen of the Communist Party of Nepal (NCP), on Sunday skipped a crucial meeting of the ruling party’s 45-member strong Standing Committee amid growing internal rift. In a letter sent to the committee, Oli said that he was unable to attend, NCP spokesperson Narayan Kaji Shrestha said. The next meeting has been scheduled for December 13. The NCP’s internal dispute surfaced when dissident group leaders, including the party’s executive chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ and senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal, demanded Oli’s resignation as the party’s chairman and as Nepal’s PM after the latter accused them of conspiring to topple his government. In a 19-page political document presented on November 13 at the party’s secretariat meeting, Prachanda criticised Oli for failing to properly run both the government and the party. He even accused Oli of corruption. Oli, however, denied the allegations and challenged Prachanda to legally prove the graft charges or apologise. Taking a strong exception to the political document, Oli made it clear that he couldn’t join Sunday’s meeting if the same proposal is presented before the Standing Committee meeting. He also termed the political document presented by Prachanda “allegation paper” directed against him. In the letter, Oli reiterated his stance that Prachanda should unconditionally withdraw his political proposal. “The Standing Committee meeting should discuss about finalising the pending works relating to the party unification, making preparations for the party’s upcoming general convention and working toward better response to contain the Covid-19 pandemic,” Oli wrote in the letter. Oli also said that the issue of change in party’s leadership should be settled through the first general convention of the unified party. “The ongoing intra-party crisis must be resolved through dialogue and the party should remain united as there is just four months left to hold the first general convention of the party,” he said in the letter. Internal feud has climaxed in the ruling party, which, observers say, may split at any time in the present context. Thus, the next week’s Standing Committee meeting will be crucial to decide whether the largest communist party in Nepal will remain united or not. On Saturday, Oli’s one-on-one meeting with ‘Prachanda’ failed to end the protracted political tussle between them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/no-end-in-sight-to-nepal-ruling-party-dispute-oli-skips-key-meet/articleshow/79599561.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses Rs 90-mark for petrol, highest among metros||MUMBAI: Petrol breached the Rs 90-mark in Mumbai on Sunday, while the price of diesel skyrocketed to over Rs 80. The petrol rate in Mumbai (Rs90.05) was the highest among all metro cities. Across Maharashtra, petrol prices in as many as 27 districts have soared over the Rs 90-mark, while diesel rates in 16 districts have crossed Rs 80. Parbhani had the highest petrol rate at Rs 92.47 a litre, which was also the highest in the country. At Rs 81.69, the cost of diesel in Amravati was the highest in the state. Petrol price in Mumbai was hiked by 27 paise on Sunday and was retailing at Rs 90.05 at the pumps, while diesel rate increased by 30 paise and was priced at Rs 80.23 a litre. Petrol rates in the city were high as compared to Delhi (Rs 83.41), Kolkata (Rs 84.90), Chennai (Rs 86.25), Bengaluru (Rs 86.20) and Hyderabad (Rs 86.75). The fuel hikes will pinch the pockets of motorists especially at a time when car and bike sales have risen in the city. There are over 11 lakh cars and 23 lakh two wheelers in Mumbai. Anticipating the hikes -this is the 10th hike in a fortnight -several car owners had filled up fuel tanks a few days back, said a petrol pump owner from LBS Marg, Bhandup. With diesel comprising 65% transportation costs, the spree of hikes will lead to at least 7-8% increases in freight rates across the state, said transporters. "This, in turn, will lead to increase in transportation costs and the burden of price rise of essential and non-essential goods will be on the consumer. It will be a temporary inflation, but will badly affect everyone," said Bal Malkit Singh of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC). India's retail inflation rose to 7.61% in October, from 7.27% in September, as per government data. This is the highest since May 2014. "Everyone is reeling under acute financial strain, and the diesel price hike will result in further inflation with an increase in prices of essential commodities," said Abhishek Gupta from Bombay Goods Transport Association. "We plan to take a delegation to the state government, demanding relief in prices and rollback of state taxes," said a transporter from AIMTC. The association has threatened a protest if issues are not resolved. Sources said the fuel hike could continue as it was required to keep the oil marketing companies from incurring losses on the sale of petrol and diesel. AIMTC's Singh said, "If petrol and diesel come under GST then fuel prices will stabilise throughout the state as state levies and surcharges will cease to exist. Despite the Centre assuring us they will look into our demands that include quarterly review of fuel prices, reduction in tax/excise duty/cess and bringing fuel prices under the ambit of GST, nothing was done in the past."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-crosses-rs-90-mark-for-petrol-highest-among-metros/articleshow/79599562.cms||Somit Sen
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||One in 3 Covid deaths across Maharashtra was of person in 61-70 age group||MUMBAI: Nearly one in three Covid-19 deaths in the state was from the age-bracket of 61-70 years. An analysis of 46,943 deaths has revealed that this age-group accounted for the highest (13,916) fatalities in absolute numbers, with more than twice the number of men succumbing than women. Age-groups above 50 years have contributed to 80% of Covid deaths in the state, the break-up of fatalities showed. Within that, 61-70 saw the highest deaths, followed by the age bracket of 51-60 years. This second most-hit age cluster saw 11,249 deaths, of which 3,441 were women and 7,808 men. The numbers have once again underlined that while a lion share- 12lakh of 18.52lakh cases, or 65% - of positive cases in Maharashtra may have come from under 50 ages, significant deaths were among the elderly. Doctors said that it was understood early on that comorbidities combined with age would increase chances of death manifold. Also, as Covid swept across the world, it became evident that the virus killed more men than women, although there remains little concrete explanation about the gender division except for biological factors or weaker immune responses in men due to smoking and drinking habits. State figures show that 70% of deaths were of men. If the yardstick of case fatality rates (CFR) is taken, then people above 100 become the worst hit with a death rate of 17%. In absolute numbers, four 100-year-olds out of 23 who were infected in the state have succumbed to the virus. Of the four, three were men. Even among centenarians, where an equal number of men and women were infected, more deaths were seen among men. The general divide is not so pronounced till the age group of 20 where almost equal deaths are seen in both genders (see graphic). "World over, this gender disparity has been seen and the only plausible explanation has been lifestyle choices like smoking and drinking that make men more vulnerable," said Dr Rakesh Bhadade, medical ICU in-charge at Nair Hospital. A state official said that infections too were seen more in men than women. "More men venture out to work than women, hence infections and deaths were more in them," he said. After centenarians, octogenarians (15.5%) had the second highest fatality rate followed by nonagenarians (14.6%). The state official said that even if maximum deaths were seen between 61-70-year olds, their CFR was around 8%. "It shows that even within senior citizens, the super senior citizens are at maximum risk. And every family must take adequate precaution to keep them protected," said Dr Gautam Bhansali, physician at Bombay Hospital. At the same time, Dr Bhansali also cited the example of an 86-year-old who went on ventilator but fought the infection and went home. "Early treatment is the key. If we intubate and start steroids, remdesivir on time, even the elderly can fight it," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-in-3-covid-deaths-across-maharashtra-was-of-person-in-61-70-age-group/articleshow/79599564.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports 667 Covid-19 cases, recovery 98.5%||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 667 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,71,972. This is the tenth day in a row that the state recorded than 1,000 cases. The toll increased to 7,033 as nine more patients succumbed to the disease. As many as 914 patients were declared cured on Sunday. There are currently 5,910 active cases with 8,59,029 cumulative recoveries and 7,033 fatalities, translating to a recovery rate of 98.5%. After Vizianagaram recently touched the 99 percent recovery rate, Kurnool and East Godavari achieved the feat on Sunday. Other than Krishna, the number of active cases are less than 1,000 in the remaining 12 districts. Krishna reported 129 new infections on Sunday, followed by Guntur (114), and Chittoor (105). The remaining 10 districts recorded less than 100 cases with Kurnool reporting as low as eight cases. East Godavari posted double-digit infections for the tenth consecutive day. Of the nine deaths registered on Sunday, two each are from Chittoor and Krishna, and one each from Anantapur, Guntur, Kadapa, Nellore and Visakhapatnam. Andhra Pradesh tested 60,329 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 667 new cases, mirroring about 1% recovery rate. The overall case positivity rate stood at 8.38 percent against the national average of 6.5%. The state’s mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%. Andhra Pradesh continued to maintain its lead among all states in terms of conducting the highest number of Covid-19 tests per million population. Kerala (1,82,131 tests per million) stood in the second place after Andhra Pradesh (1,94,955).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-667-covid-19-cases-recovery-98-5/articleshow/79596352.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Discoms get ERC nod to collect Rs 4,939 crore as true up charges||AMARAVATI: Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) has allowed power utilities to collect true up charges to the tune of Rs 4,939 crore. The difference between the generation, procurement, transmission costs and revenue received by the discoms is called true-up charges. These charges are transferred to consumers during subsequent years to make balance sheets of discoms, gencos, transcos clean without losses. APERC, chaired by justice CV Nagarjuna Reddy and comprising Thakur Rama Singh and P Rajagopala Reddy, gave its decision last week but made public the details on the commission’s website on Saturday. The discoms cited reasons beyond their control for the delay in filing the true costs. They claimed the bifurcation of AP, delay in bifurcation of electricity distribution companies, and arriving at final profit-loss between different discoms post bifurcation of the state resulted in the delay in filing of the true up costs. As per the rules, the claims of true costs should be filed along with the subsequent years Annual Retail Revenue (ARR) tariff. The discoms have requested the ERC to allow them to collect Rs 861 crore for 2014-15, Rs 11,144 crore for 2016-17, Rs 3,257 crore for 2017-18 and Rs 4,341 crore for 2018-19. As per the claims, discoms projected the true-up cost Rs 20,371 crore for four years and sought commission them to collect at least Rs 19,603 crore. After taking various factors and objections into consideration, the commission decided to permit the discoms to collect Rs 4,939 crore. The true up charges are pertaining to 2014-2018 period as the discoms have not filed claims for true up charges with the ERC during the TDP regime as per the deadlines fixed by the commission. After going through the objections filed by public groups, experts and responses from respective discoms, APERC has refused to allow the true-up charges for the 2014-15 financial year. The commission also reduced the actual claims sought by the discoms taking the delay in filing into consideration. The ERC approved the true-up cost of Rs 665 crore for 2016-17, Rs 1,637 crore for 2017-18, Rs 2,637 crore for 2018-19. With ERC granting nil for the 2014-15, it mentioned that it was allowing the discoms to collect a total of Rs 4,939 crore for all the four years from the consumers. It is, however, not clear how and when the discoms would collect the true costs as they have recently filed the retail tariff for 2021-22 without increasing any tariff for retail consumers. While APSPDCL has been allowed to collect Rs 3,175 crore, EPDCL was granted permission to collect Rs 1,764 crore. Since the SPDCL has been recently bifurcated into two separate discoms-SPDCL and CPDCL, the respective discoms would fix the tariff taking the true up costs into consideration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discoms-get-erc-nod-to-collect-rs-4939-crore-as-true-up-charges/articleshow/79596384.cms||Samdani MN
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Sharp fall in dengue cases, Maharashtra sees 84% drop compared to 2019||MUMBAI: Dengue incidence this year has shown a marked decline in the state which experts say could be linked to low transmission due to physical distancing, a shift to work-from-home mode and closure of schools, or even under diagnosis and less reporting. Data till October shows an 84%decline in cases and 86% fall in deaths compared to 2019. Maharashtra reported 2,330 confirmed cases of dengue and four deaths till October end. In comparison, there were 14,907 cases and 29 deaths last year, while there were 11,011 cases and 55 fatalities in 2018. State officials said even with the addition of November and December caseloads, numbers this year are unlikely to exceed last year's tally. While Kolhapur and Sangli reported one death each, Nagpur recorded two deaths this year. Incidentally, malaria, also a mosquito-borne disease, has reported a 22% increase till October compared to 2019. The decline calls for an in-depth analysis, said Dr Mahendra Jagtap, the state entomologist, who also doesn't deny the possibility of under reporting. "Like in every other disease, people may not have sought a doctor's appointment for dengue too," he said. He pointed out that there was a definite decline in dengue tests, a significant chuck of which is carried out at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. NIV is the nodal institute for testing of Covid samples and verification of testing kits was also mainly focussed there. Barring a few cities, dengue has seen a decline almost everywhere, according to Dr AC Dhariwal, consultant to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). In previous years, major transmissions have been seen occurring in schools, workplaces and marketplaces. "Such gatherings didn't happen because of the pandemic this year," he said. When a mosquito bites a person with dengue fever, the mosquito becomes infected with the virus and then spreads it to other people by biting them. A senior KEM Hospital doctor said the similarity in preliminary symptoms of Covid and dengue such as fever, chills and body ache, could have also led to more people opting for Covid diagnosis rather than dengue. "We did see some cases where patients were testing negative for Covid, but positive for dengue," said the doctor, adding the symptomatic treatment people have taken for Covid could have worked for dengue too. Mumbai, too, has seen a 90% decline, particularly in monsoon. Compared to 404 cases seen between June and September 2019, it was down to merely 39 cases. Rajan Naringrekar, BMC's insecticide officer, said Mumbai, in fact, was projected to see 1.5 times more cases this year. "We were warned by New Delhi's NVBDCP that this could happen and, therefore, we started our vector-control activities in February," he said. Civic body teams destroyed 63,306 breeding spots in high-risk pockets of the city compared to 51,509 pockets in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sharp-fall-in-dengue-cases-maharashtra-sees-84-drop-compared-to-2019/articleshow/79599573.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||VMC to take action against land owners not maintaining open plots||VIJAYAWADA: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has decided to take strict action against owners of vacant land plots who haven’t been maintaining their open plots. Ward volunteers have been deployed to carry out a survey for the purpose. Open plots become a major problem during the monsoon as water gets stagnated in these areas which turn into mosquito breeding zones causing menace in residential areas. Moreover, dumping garbage and debris in open plots has become a recurrent problem. Despite numerous notices, the VMC hasn’t seen any response from owners for years. Consequently, the municipal corporation has now roped in volunteers and sanitation workers to clean out the garbage-filled plots with stagnant water. Meanwhile, officials are carrying out a survey of vacant lands in the city which now host buildings. “Around 15,000 vacant lands have been identified in the city in the last survey. Many vacant lands have now been converted into buildings,” said VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh. Venkatesh further said: “In this survey, we got new assessments which will help us increase tax revenue. The survey will be carried out within the next ten days.” “We will try to motivate owners of vacant land to maintain their sites properly and pay VLT on time. Similarly, we will initiate stringent action on assessments which ignore our requests,” the VMC commissioner added. So far, the VMC has not been able to identify owners of 700 land plots in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/civic-body-to-take-action-against-land-owners-not-maintaining-open-plots/articleshow/79596388.cms||Venu Lanka
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Inquiry order into alleged thrashing by SI||TIRUPATI: Tirupati Urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy ordered an inquiry after a woman alleged she was thrashed by MR Palli police sub-inspector when she visited the police station to register a complaint. The victim who identified herself as Vanitha Rani told reporters a group of men assaulted her in connection with a dispute over a site and she sought police help by dialling 100. “When I dialled 100 the control room staff rushed to the location. Seeing the police, the persons who attacked us fled away. Later, my sister and I went to MR Palli police station to register a complaint against those who assaulted us on Saturday evening. We accidentally stepped into the police station while it was being cleaned and the floor was wet and the SI Prakash Kumar, present there, vented his anger at me and thrashed me for messing up the floor,” alleged the victim. The victim alleged that she then went to the Disha police station to register a complaint against MR Palli SI but nobody responded. Tirupati SP assured Vanitha Rani that disciplinary action would be initiated against the SI if he was found guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/inquiry-order-into-alleged-thrashing-by-si/articleshow/79596398.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 7, 2020||Thane||Thane: Character artiste Ravi Patwardhan, 84, passes away||THANE: Veteran actor Ravi Patwardhan, known for his powerful character roles in over 250 Marathi and Hindi theatre plays, TV shows and films, passed away at a private hospital in Thane following a heart attack late Saturday. He was 84. Patwardhan was rushed to hospitalafter he complained of breathing issues and suffered a seizure at home. "Initially, he showed signs of improvement, but later stopped responding, and within half an hour, we lost him," said his older son, Niranjan. The actor had met with a minor accident at home following which he had stopped shooting for a Marathi serial. Associates and neighbours remembered him as being health conscious, and said he used to follow a dedicated fitness regime. Patwardhan straddled languages and media with equal ease. He is known for his inimitable style of portrayal of myriad characters. His presence on the popular Marathi agriculture show 'Aamchi Maati Aamchi Maansa' on DD in the mid-'80s was admired. His powerful voice and strapping figure came in good use as the shrewd public prosecutor in 'Tezaab' and the lustful politician, MLA Bane, in Jabbar Patel's 'Umbartha'. His versatility shone through as he played an endearing senior citizen in one of his latest Marathi TV shows 'Aggabai Sasubai'. Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde recalled Patwardhan's memorable roles in P L Deshpande's 'Tujha Aahe Tujhpashi'. BJP MLA Sanjay Kelkar remembered his active presence on the social circuit of Thane city. The actor is survived by his wife, two sons and grandchildren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-character-artiste-ravi-patwardhan-84-passes-away/articleshow/79599576.cms||Manoj Badgeri
December 7, 2020||Vijayawada||Municipal administration minister Botcha lashes out at Andhra Pradesh election commissioner||AMARAVATI: Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday lashed out at state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar. Speaking to the media, Botcha said, “If Nimmagadda thinks he is fair and honest, his letter should be released to the entire media and not to select ones. He is working with single-point agenda to help Chandrababu Naidu.” “Nimmagadda has no business to question the authority of the legislature. The assembly passed a unanimous resolution not to conduct elections in the current situation keeping in view the Covid-19 situation. What job does Nimmagadda have to question our authority?” Botcha fumed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/botcha-lashes-out-at-sec/articleshow/79596403.cms||Samdani MN
December 7, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Zero Covid cases in Vizag police department||VISAKHAPATNAM: Deputy commissioner of police (law and order–I) Aishwarya Rastogi on Sunday said Vizag city police has managed to achieve the zero Covid-19 cases by December 4. As many as 698 city police personnel were infected with Covid-19 and four personnel, including two head constables, succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/zero-covid-cases-in-vizag-police-dept/articleshow/79596410.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka may need vaccine for 15 lakh frontline workers in 2nd round||BENGALURU: Estimates by the state’s health department suggest Karnataka may need to vaccinate at least 15 lakh people from two categories regarded as top priority by the central government – healthcare workers and frontline warriors. States are preparing to roll out vaccination drives within “weeks” and healthcare workers and frontline warriors will be inoculated in the first two rounds. This could mean 30 lakh doses of vaccines for Karnataka alone, especially given that most vaccine candidates showing promise require two doses to be effective. The department had announced that 5 lakh healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the first round, but a senior health official said they estimate that at least 10 lakh frontline workers would need the vaccine in the second round. This list is likely to include police personnel, teachers, anganwadi workers and waste collectors among others. “Just as with healthcare workers — 5 lakh of the 1 crore in the country are in Karnataka — we estimate that about 5% of the 2 crore frontline workers that will get vaccinated in India will be from the state,” said Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, which will spearhead the vaccination. “This number could change as the Centre is yet to release guidelines on who should be included in this category. A committee is still deliberating on this.” Karnataka has 80,000 policemen, nearly two lakh teachers (government and government-aided), around 66,000 anganwadi workers and 62,000 anganwadi helpers and thousands of pourakarmikas — around 18,000 in Bengaluru alone. Arundathi said data on the 5 lakh healthcare workers, including 2.4 lakh from the private sector, are being entered in the Central database and that it would be completed by Tuesday. “Once guidelines are issued for frontline workers, the same procedure will be followed for them,” she said. The state has identified more than 30,000 vaccination sites and more than 10,000 vaccinators in government set up so far, and this number will increase as the process to identify vaccinators from private facilities has been initiated. They will be picked from a pool of 68,317 government and 35,310 private potential vaccinators identified so far. 3rd round vaccinationWhile the first two rounds of inoculation are expected to be conducted smoothly, the challenges of identifying potential beneficiaries from high-risk groups needing vaccination in the third round may pose a challenge. The state, however, is confident of overcoming it. Health minister K Sudhakar told TOI: “Our database is comprehensive considering 1.1 crore households were surveyed earlier this year. With regard to the more vulnerable sections of society, including senior citizens and those with comorbidities, we have to streamline the data to get the numbers. My hope is that by January 2021, we will see the first round of vaccines arriving for our health workers.” Health commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the modalities of how to identify people with comorbidities will be finalised based on the Centre’s guidelines, whenever that is shared with states. “We have the wherewithal to even conduct another door-to-door survey if the need arises, given that we now have identified an efficient process of doing it,” Pandey said. As reported by TOI, the findings of the door-to-door survey concluded in May had shown that every third household in the state falls under the vulnerable category and one in every 34 vulnerable homes had a person with comorbidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-may-need-vaccine-for-15-lakh-frontline-workers-in-2nd-round/articleshow/79599579.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Illegal bullock cart race held at Alibaug||NAVI MUMBAI: A bullock cart race was held at Kihim beach, Alibaug, on Sunday despite a ban on such races. Activist Sumaira Abdulali video-recorded the race and posted a video on Twitter, seeking an inquiry from the authorities. "Around 8am, saw many bikes honking on the beach and four to five bullocks were being goaded to pull carts. The noise of bikes, people shouting and making poor bulls run fast is cruelty, to animals," said Abdulali of Awaaz Foundation, an NGO. Video: An illegal bullock cart race was held at Kihim beach, Alibaug on Sunday https://t.co/IL2vDnN4OL— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1607317613000She said it is ironical that this illegal event took place despite strict checks by district officials on beaches, where water sports and film shoots were stopped recently. Deputy superintendent of police Sonali Kadam told TOI: "I have asked local officials about the incident. I've got information that some people had got their bullocks to the beach, not with the intention of racing. But I will inquire into this ." Watch Illegal bullock cart race held at Maharashtra's Alibaug despite ban||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-illegal-bullock-cart-race-held-at-alibaug/articleshow/79599582.cms||Vijay Singh
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Wedding eve cylinder blast kills 1, injures 15 in Mumbai's Lalbaug||MUMBAI: An elderly woman died and 15 persons were injured in a cooking gas cylinder blast that occurred moments after a fire broke out during food preparation on the day of a pre-wedding ritual at Sarabhai building in Lalbaug early on Sunday. The bride's father was one of the injured. Nine of the injured were critical with 70% to 95% burn injuries. Officials said a gas leak had caused a minor fire when cooking was under way on the day of the haldi (turmeric application) function. Sushila Bangre (62), the deceased woman, had been admitted with five others at the KEM Hospital. The incident took place on the second floor of the four-storey building, which has several small rooms. The bride's family, which lives nearby, had arranged for the use of a couple of rooms for guests and food preparation. The common wall between the two rooms and the window wall of one of the rooms collapsed in the explosion, causing most of the injuries. Neighbours took most of the injured to hospital before the fire brigade arrived. Firefighters brought the blaze under control in about an hour. Five of the critically injured, Prathamesh Munge (27), Roshan Andhari (40), Mangesh Rane (61), Mahesh Munge (56), and Dynadeo Sawant (85), were undergoing treatment at the BMC-run KEM Hospital. Four of the critically injured, Vaishali Himanshu (44), Trisha (13), Bipin (50), Suryakant (60), were admitted to a private hospital. The six others injured but not critical were recuperating at KEM. Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the injured in the various hospitals. "The private hospital was asking for admission deposit amount before starting the treatment of those seriously injured and started the process only after BMC administration intervention," she said. "I understand that they need to complete the deposit formalities, but during such incidents they should adopt a sensitive approach and start the treatment immediately instead of waiting for the deposit amount." In the morning, someone had felt a strong gas odour in the kitchen of the small room. When the bride's father and relatives went to the kitchen to understand the problem, the cylinder exploded, injuring all those in the room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wedding-eve-cylinder-blast-kills-1-injures-15-in-mumbais-lalbaug/articleshow/79599590.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||Fire breaks out in houses at Wadi, Atladara||VADODARA: A closed house of a corona patient caught fire in Wadi area on Sunday afternoon. Fire department sources said that the fire broke out in a two-storey house in Vachli Pol in Wadi sometime before 2pm. Short-circuit is believed to be the cause of fire. Although, the fire was doused within an hour, all valuables and furniture were gutted. A member of the house has valued the loss at Rs 1.5 lakh, a fire official said. Smoke covered the locality as the narrow alley did not allow proper ventilation. A commotion also ensued as a large crowd gathered outside the house. It was later known that the owner had contracted coronavirus and is admitted to a hospital. Two other members of the house have quarantined themselves in another building. Two more people living in the neighbourhood have also been affected by the virus. Another house fire was reported from Shreejinagar society in Atladara on Sunday. The fire had broken out in the kitchen of the house. Before it could spread further, firemen from Makarpura GIDC fire station controlled it. “A major mishap was averted as there were two gas cylinders in the room where the fire was on. Our staff quickly brought it out once the flames were under control,” a fire official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fire-breaks-out-in-houses-at-wadi-atladara/articleshow/79595892.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||2,800 school employees show Covid infection in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: As many as 2,800 teaching and non-teaching staff in government schools in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 when they took the RT-PCR tests. All such teachers and staff with Covid infection cannot report to school till they recover fully and get a negative report. The highest positive reports have come from Chandrapur, with 265 teachers and 115 staff members, showing Covid-19 infection. Tests for over 2 lakh teaching and non-teaching staff have been conducted so far, and results of another 1 lakhwill be out in this week. The tests were made mandatory by the state government before reopening of schools on November 23. Only those teachers who tested negative for the infection were allowed to report to teach standards IX, X and XII. The drive started around November 19, after the state announced the reopening of the schools for senior classes. All schools have been shut since March, but since standards IX, X and XII are crucial years, the state decided to allow physical classes. Educational institutes in rural areas permitted face-to-face teaching for these classes while civic bodies in the state said they would wait. An MSCERT official said, "Covid-19 testing is still under way in many districts and their reports are coming in. Teachers and non-teaching staff who tested positive are being treated at government-run Covid care centres."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2800-school-employees-show-covid-infection-in-maharashtra/articleshow/79599594.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Long gap after training worries ZP polling staff||PANAJI: The announcement that the Zilla Panchayat polls will be held on December 12 has taken many by surprise, including those set to report for polling duty. The dates were declared on December 5 evening and December 6 being a Sunday, the polling teams will be left with a short period of time to gear up for the polls. Those who have to report for the duty are also upset that they will not be able to keep prior personal commitments due to the sudden declaration of the polling date. Sources said that officials from the state election commission (SEC) for the conduct of the elections have started contacting the poll duty teams from Saturday. They are checking whether the teams are intact or not. But many allotted the job said they are carrying it out for the first time and have been left nervous as there has been a big gap since training for the polling duty was conducted. The election, earlier scheduled in March, was postponed due to the pandemic. “It cannot be assumed that the polling team members must have carried out election duties in the past. Some are new joinees and have no experience of carrying out election duties. Some have done it only once or twice in the past and this puts pressure on a team,” said one official posted on duty. Poll duty team consists of a presiding officer, polling officer 1, polling officer 2, polling officer 3 and a polling peon. The role of each member is crucial as a single mistake can put the entire polling process and the team in trouble. The duties are assigned as per his or her designation and at times a newly recruited person at a higher post gets the polling duty of a presiding officer or polling officer 1. “We are trained in the job, we are not masters of the election process. With time we tend to forget the some of the procedures,” said another official on polling duty. Two trainings were held prior to the previous dates of the ZP polls and there has been a big gap since the dates were postponed due to Covid pandemic. “If no refresher training is provided it will a greatly difficult task for those who are new to it,” said an official. Those posted on duty also said they will have to dishonour prior family commitments now due to the sudden date announcement. More than 9,000 staff will be posted on election duty. Polling will be held in 1,187 booths. This year, the polling teams will have another task of protecting themselves from Covid-19 infection. Covid positive persons are being allowed to vote in the last hour of voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/long-gap-after-training-worries-zp-polling-staff/articleshow/79597962.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||No outside force for zilla panchayat elections, says Goa police||PANAJI: Goa police on Sunday decided not to requisition additional force from outside the state for deployment to ensure peaceful conduct of the zilla panchayat elections. Earlier, director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena held a meeting with senior police officers to review preparedness of the force for the fast approaching polls. “As of today, Goa police will deploy its personnel to conduct the ZP elections. Final deployment will be decided after discussions with the State Election Commission (SEC),” superintendent of police (SP) and public relations officer (PRO) Mahesh Gaonkar told TOI. Voting for the ZP elections will be held on December 12, while counting will be held on December 14, the SEC said on Saturday. The model code of conduct came into force with the announcement of the polling date and will be in force till December 14 midnight. The elections will be held for 48 out of 50 seats. People without face masks will not be allowed to vote. Covid positive persons would be allowed to vote in the last hour of voting. Polling will be held between 8am and 5pm, and counting will start from 8am on December 14. Out of 25 constituencies in South Goa, voting will be conducted in 23 seats. One candidate was elected unopposed in Sancoale constituency, while the election in Navelim constituency has been countermanded following the death of a candidate. The elections were scheduled in March, but were postponed due to the pandemic. During the meeting, Goa police also discussed the security protocol to be followed during the visit of President Ram Nath Kovind. Kovind will be the chief guest for the Liberation day function, chief minister Pramod Sawant had said on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-outside-force-for-zp-elections-says-goa-police/articleshow/79597965.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Goaded by lover, Tamil Nadu girl ends life on video call||CHENNAI: In a long-distance relationship that went fatally wrong, a 24-year-old woman committed suicide, goaded by her boyfriend, an Army man, while on a video call with him in the city on Wednesday. Police arrested the accused, Muthu Kumaresan, 32, an Army ambulance driver working in Nagpur, on the charge of abetment to suicide on Saturday. The purported video was retrieved from the victim's mobile by police on Thursday. According to police, Muthu Kumaresan, who hails from Alankulam in Virudhunagar district, developed friendship with K Bharathi of Perumbakkam, a private firm employee, through a video chat app. He came to Chennai from Nagpur on November 18 to meet her. After talking to him, Bharathi came to know that he was already married and was father of two children. She decided to end her relationship with him. Accused told woman to hang herselfMuthu Kumaresan continued to harass her and threatened to end his life if she refused to marry him. On December 2 (Wednesday), they spoke again on a video call when Bharathi decided to give him a final warning. But since Kumaresan refused to budge, she threatened to end her life if he doesn’t stop his harassment, police said. Finally, when she tried to cut her veins with a knife, Muthu Kumaresan goaded her to hang herself so that she could die soon, sources said. “The entire conversation between the two was recorded on the phone. It helped us in arresting the Armyman,” said an investigating officer. “He was witnessing the suicide without trying to convince her,” he said. While the Perumbakkam police initially booked a case under Section 174 of the CrPC (case of suicide), it was altered after the video was retrieved. Kumaresan was remanded in judicial custody late on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/goaded-by-lover-tamil-nadu-girl-ends-life-on-video-call/articleshow/79599620.cms||---
December 7, 2020||World||UK gears up for vaccination plan watched by the world||LONDON: Final checks were taking place on Sunday on the deliveries of the coronavirus vaccine developed by American drugmaker Pfizer and Germany’s BioNTech before its rollout to hospitals across the UK in super-cold containers. Around 800,000 doses of the vaccine are expected to be in place for the start of the immunisation programme on Tuesday, which will be the country’s biggest ever and which is being closely watched all around the world. British health secretary Matt Hancock has reportedly dubbed Tuesday as “V-Day,” a nod to triumphs in World War II. “Despite the huge complexities, hospitals will kickstart the first phase of the largest scale vaccination campaign in our country’s history from Tuesday,” said professor Stephen Powis, NHS England’s national medical director. “The first tranche of vaccine deliveries will be landing at hospitals by Monday in readiness.” Last week the UK became the first country to authorise the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine for emergency use. In trials, the vaccine was shown to have around 95% efficacy. Vaccinations will be administered starting Tuesday at around 50 hospital hubs in England. Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will also begin their vaccination rollouts the same day. Governments and health agencies around the world will be monitoring the British vaccination programme, which will take months, to note its successes and failures and adjust their own plans accordingly. The US hopes to start vaccinations later this month. The excitement in Britain, which has Europe’s highest virus-related death toll at more than 61,000, was palpable. Patients aged 80 and above who are already attending hospitals as outpatients and those being discharged after a stay in the hospital will be among the first to receive the jab. Hospitals will also start inviting over 80s in for a vaccine shot and will work with nursing homes to book staff into vaccination clinics. Any appointments not taken up will be offered to those health workers deemed to be at the highest risk of Covid-19. Everyone who is vaccinated will need a booster jab 21days later. The UK has secured 40 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine, which can cover 20 million people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-gears-up-for-vaccination-plan-watched-by-the-world/articleshow/79599618.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: Fatalities touch 699 as one more succumbs to Covid, 131 recover||PANAJI: One more Covid-related death was reported on Sunday taking the death toll of the state to 699. A 55-year-old man from Bicholim died after three days of admission at Goa Medical College (GMC). He suffered from gastrointestinal bleeding shock. A total of 112 persons tested positive for Covid on Sunday taking the active cases to 1,364. A total of 131 persons recovered over the past 24 hours. So far, 46,624 people in the state have beat the novel coronavirus. Forty-two persons opted for home isolation and 36 new persons have been admitted to hospitals. The state’s recovery rate is now at 95.76 per cent. Cumulative Covid cases in Goa till date stands at 48,686 while total cumulative samples tested during the pandemic are 3,59,345. Only two health centres in Margao and Porvorim reported active cases in triple digits. Margao has 132 active cases while Porvorim has 111. Health centres in Sanguem, Colvale, Cansarvanem and Mayem reported active cases in single digits. A total of 84 per cent of beds in Covid care centres are currently vacant in North and South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fatalities-touch-699-as-one-more-succumbs-to-covid-131-recover/articleshow/79597987.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Odisha man held with Rs 2 lakh marijuana||VASCO: Verna police arrested Simanphal Swain, 32, from Nagoa for possessing marijuana worth Rs two lakh. Verna police said that at 6pm on Sunday, Swain was found waiting for a customer. When he was searched by the police, they found 2.2kg of marijuana. Swain was intercepted after police received information that he would be delivering the narcotic substance to a customer. Police took Swain into custody and registered an offense. Swain is a native of Odisha. PSI Sanket Talkar is the complainant and PSI Praveen Semapuraskar is the investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/odisha-man-held-with-rs-2l-marijuana/articleshow/79598000.cms||---
December 7, 2020||World||Iran prepares to raise oil exports if sanctions eased: Report||Iran has instructed its oil ministry to prepare installations for production and sale of crude oil at full capacity within three months, state media said on Sunday, ahead of a possible easing of US sanctions after President-elect Joe Biden takes office. They quoted President Hassan Rouhani as saying that Iran exported more than two million barrels a day before US President Trump exited the 2015 nuclear deal with six powers in 2018 and reimposed sanctions that have hit Iran’s economy hard by sharply cutting its vital oil exports. Biden, who will take office on January 20, has said that he would return to the pact and would lift sanctions if Tehran returned to “strict compliance with the nuclear deal”. Rouhani said on Sunday that his country was preparing for a speedy increase of its oil production, the official IRNA news agency reported. “The oil ministry will take all the necessary steps to prepare the oil industry’s facilities to produce and sell — proportionate to the available capacity — within the next three months,” IRNA quoted Rouhani as saying. It is estimated that Iran exports less than 300,000 barrels of oil per day (bpd), compared to a peak of 2.8 million bpd in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/iran-prepares-to-raise-oil-exports-if-sanctions-eased-report/articleshow/79599624.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Woman, daughter die falling into open drain on Chennai road||CHENNAI: A 50-year-old city doctor and her 20-year-old daughter, an architecture student, died after they fell into an open drain on the Irumbuliyar-Maduravoyal bypass service road near Mogappair on Sunday. According to police, Carolin Priscilla, 50, of Ayanambakkam, was returning home with Evelyn on a two-wheeler after shopping. Around 7pm, when they were riding on the service road, the vehicle skid and both fell into the three-foot-wide open canal. Since it was raining, the drain had more water. Though they fell around 7pm, nobody noticed them at least for an hour as the area was poorly lit and there was sparse vehicle movement on the stretch as it was a holiday. After nearly an hour, a few bikers who noticed a scooty lying across the drain, spotted the body and alerted the fire service control room and personnel from JJ Nagar unit took them out. Later, an ambulance crew that reached the spot declared them dead. Drain left open, street poorly lit too, says copTirumangalam traffic investigation wing police have sent the bodies for postmortem. “Evelyn may have lost control of the vehicle as the road was slippery. There was water in the drain, and they were asphyxiated,” a senior police officer said. “The area was also poorly lit.” According to sources, as per design mandate, the concrete drain was not meant to be covered. The road-side edge of the drain was of the same level as the road while the outer edge was slightly taller. There was nothing that can stop a vehicle from falling into it. There was neither a warning sign nor a wall. Preliminary probe revealed that the area fell under the NHAI. “Officials of the department concerned shouldn’t have left the drain uncovered. Action will be initiated after a probe,” the officer said. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-daughter-die-falling-into-open-drain-on-chennai-road/articleshow/79599628.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||‘BOI had reservations over HBA scheme, govt cheated employees’||Panaji: In a damning disclosure, Bank of India (BOI), in a four-page letter, expressed reservations over the government’s sudden decision to stop the House Building Advance (HBA) scheme. The bank said that as per norms, “no amendment and changes” can be made without the approval of the bank and home owners. The letter, released in the public domain by Goa Forward Party, also said that all government employees who took loans through the House Building Advance scheme needed to give written consent for the conversion of the home loan. While conveying its reservations, BOI also said that releasing the bank guarantee of Rs 300 crore at the rate of Rs 75 crore per quarter is not possible till all home loans are repaid. TOI reported on May 19 that the state government has withdrawn the HBA scheme, which was initiated in 1988. Earlier, the finance department had issued an order putting a halt on sanctioning of files under the scheme. In its letter, BOI said that clause 17 in the agreement signed with the government in 2006 and renewed in 2019 “clearly and unambiguously states that no amendment and changes to this guarantee shall be made except with the written consent of the bank, and is irrevocable and shall be continuing for all the HBA granted by the bank to various borrowers amongst other guarantees till the entire liability of the government are fully paid”. The nationalised bank also said that in order to convert loans taken under the HBA scheme into regular home loans, written consent of borrowers is required, and the mortgaged property has to be inspected. The bank also said that loans could not be converted if the monthly EMI exceeded 40% of the employee’s monthly net salary. GFP’s Employees Forward cell convener John Nazareth said the letter shows that the chief minister Pramod Sawant has fooled government employees. “From the contents of the bank letter, it is clear that the Pramod Sawant government has totally failed to discharge its duties and violated the conditions of the bank,” said Nazareth. He said that GFP will “leave no stone unturned” to help aggrieved government employees get justice. BOI also informed the state government that the bank guarantee will be returned only after the 45 fresh HBA applications cleared their dues with the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/boi-had-reservations-over-hba-scheme-govt-cheated-employees/articleshow/79598003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Goa||‘Reconstruct railing along Bicholim road’||Bicholim: Villagers from Amthane, Bicholim, have demanded that the authorities reconstruct the protective railings on the left of the narrow road leading from the village towards Bicholim. The railings were damaged recently in a road accident and have been lying broken since. The railings were installed after locals had complained that even heavy vehicles were traveling towards Bicholim using the narrow road. The railings were meant to prevent heavy vehicles from passing through, thereby avoiding fatalities. Only cars, ambulances and two-wheelers are allowed to use the road. The fencing was erected on either side of the entrance point to this road in June 2020. However, now the railing on the left lies damaged by an unknown vehicle, posing a risk from the protruding remains of the fencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reconstruct-railing-along-bicholim-road/articleshow/79598007.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Delaying tactics by complainant not in good taste: GCZMA||times news network Panaji: In a case of CRZ violation, the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has slammed the complainant in the matter for ‘delaying tactics’. It has decided not to grant further hearings after the complainant was already given an opportunity to examine the owner of the alleged illegal structure herself. The GCZMA said only written replies will be filed in the matter now and authority will decide based on these submissions. The Authority has also stated that disposal of matters placed before it is of prime importance and any delaying tactics severely affects the output of the GCZMA. Despite repeated opportunities for hearing, the complainant sought more time to ‘study the matter’, which the GCZMA was ‘not in good taste’. “The Authority decided that the hearings are taking place in an open forum and the complainant herself has examined the witness and the email copy put before the Authority is not in good taste. The Authority decided not to grant any further hearing in the matter. The parties may file their written arguments within a weeks’ time, thereupon, the Authority will decide on the matter with available materials on record,” the GCZMA said. In May 2019, the GCZMA decided to review the demolition orders issued to a restaurant owner for CRZ violation, as the authority felt principles of natural justice were violated by not giving sufficient hearing to the owner of the structure. The GCZMA then heard both parties and also gave an opportunity to the complainant to examine the owner of the restaurant in October 2019. The owner of the structure moved an application for review, but despite already knowing that the matter was being heard again by the GCZMA primarily due to the review application, the complainant objected. “The Complainant despite being informed in the last meeting held maintained that she was not aware that the Review Application was allowed. In fact, the matter was partly heard on the last date itself on merits and it is only since the Complainant requested for time to study the matter to cross-examine,” the GCZMA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delaying-tactics-by-complainant-not-in-good-taste-gczma/articleshow/79598030.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||AAP urges Goa CM not to curb people’s voices||PANAJI: AAP, on Sunday, urged chief minister Pramod Sawant not to stop meetings to curb the voice of people. Party’s Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha sought to know under what provision of law AAP leader Sandesh Telekar was arrested two days ago while addressing a meeting at Valpoi. Telekar only exposed the corruption of the government that is looting the people, Chadha said. He pointed out that the BJP government has been sending police at the venues of their Vij Andolan rallies to disrupt the same and announced that because of the code of conduct coming in force due to the zilla panchayat elections the same has been suspended for the moment and will resume in January 2021. Chadha also dismissed charge of former convenor Elvis Gomes that the party is the B team of BJP and thanking Gomes for his services, he said, “We have no ill feelings towards anybody and are very grateful for all the work that they did for AAP when they were with the party.” He said that it was not a matter concerning individuals but the cause they were fighting for. Replying to a question he said that, in 2013, nobody believed that AAP would form the government in Delhi and added that Goans want free electricity and want AAP to form the next government to give it to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-urges-cm-not-to-curb-peoples-voices/articleshow/79598083.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Civil defence, home guard volunteers are Covid warriors too’||PANAJI: Director general of police (DGP) Mukesh Kumar Meena on Sunday said the civil defence and home guard volunteers have played the role of Covid warriors. Meena, who is also director of civil defence, was speaking at the 58th Home Guard and Civil Defence Raising Day function at Police headquarters grounds in Panaji. Civil defence volunteer and former home guard company commander John Aguiar was honoured for writing two songs on Corona awareness, which became popular on social media, and also for volunteering in human trials for Covaxin. Other civil defence volunteers who were awarded included Uday Kuri, who assisted in distribution of grocery and essentials during the pandemic and also created awareness about the virus, Rupesh Parvatkar, who volunteered for human trials for Covaxin and Rafiq Bagwale, who created awareness in Vasco by composing songs and singing on the streets during lockdown. Home guard Dias was awarded for good services in traffic duties at Mandovi bridge junction and Home guard Savlo Velip was awarded for working beyond duty timings during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civil-defence-home-guard-volunteers-are-covid-warriors-too/articleshow/79598109.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Goa||CCP invites bids to install sanitary pad dispensers||PANAJI: In a bid to advocate personal hygiene among women, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has floated a tender for the supply, installation and commissioning of a sanitary napkin dispenser and incinerator, with maintenance services for five years. Bids shall be submitted before December 22 up to 1pm through online mode only at goaenivida.gov.in With these machines, women and girls will not only be able to purchase sanitary napkins at an affordable rate, but the incinerator will also dispose of the pads properly. In this initiative, a sanitary napkin dispenser along with a incinerator will be installed at every public toilet within the jurisdiction of CCP. The tender states that the device must be electrically operated with auto cut-off functioning. The machine will have to dispense two to ten pads at a time per cycle and 80 to 100 pads per day through a two-inch emission outlet.  The incinerator will have a temperature controller. The electronic coin acceptor will accept multiple coins of all denominations via a single-slot entry. The coin acceptor will automatically block coin entry when there is no stock. Moreover, the front panel LCD display will show the product price and quantity available. The “out of stock” message will be displayed when there is no stock of napkins. The machine will be wall mountable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-invites-bids-to-install-sanitary-pad-dispensers/articleshow/79598158.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Wholesale prices of vegetables to go up by over Rs 10 a kg||CHENNAI: Don't be surprised if your neighbourhood anna at the kirana shop charges you more for vegetables. Wholesale prices of all vegetables are likely to go up by 10 to 15 a kilogram this week, a fortnight after rates fluctuated due to rain. While vegetables sold cheap when it rained hard, the rates spiked the days that followed as retail traders thronged the market. Wholesalers at the Koyambedu vegetable market said the rates will increase in the coming days, usual post rainy days. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said the rates of vegetables will rise since retail traders will return to the market bringing business back to normalcy. Last week, the prices of most vegetables dropped by at least 10. On Friday, prices of cabbage and chow-chow fell by 5 and 7 a kilogram respectively. But the rates revived the next day. "For instance, drumstick, which was available for just 15 a kilogram shot up to 25 on Saturday," Chandran said. Moreover, the arrivals of vegetables such as beetroot, cabbage, carrot and drumstick will reduce if it rains, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-wholesale-prices-of-vegetables-to-go-up-by-over-rs-10-a-kg/articleshow/79599643.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||‘Miscreants issuing extortion calls claiming to be PLFI members’||Ranchi: The instances of miscreants trying to extort money from citizens by claiming to be members of the banned extremist organisation, People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), were on the rise, Ranchi Police said. City SP Saurav said, “In view of the extortion demands in the recent past, an intensive drive has been undertaken to verify the location and activities of different criminals. Several other steps are also being taken to keep them under control.” Notably, police arrested four persons recently for demanding extortion money from Indian Medical Association (IMA) Ranchi unit secretary Sambhu Prasad Singh. In a WhatsApp message sent to the IMA secretary on November 18, the miscreants, who claimed to be PLFI members, demanded a sum of Rs 20 lakh. A trader engaged in cloth business had also received an extortion call from the same mobile number. Police said the criminals had no links with the PLFI. The PLFI had also issued a letter denying any connection with the extortionists. In another case, a poster attributed to PLFI was pasted at the industrial undertaking of state LJP president Birendra Pradhan in Tupdana on Thursday. Pradhan was asked to pay Rs 2 crore. Meanwhile, PLFI denied any involvement in the case. In another instance, a trader, Sandip Kumar, from Dhurwa area of Ranchi received purported messages from PLFI demanding an extortion amount of Rs 50 lakhs. The trader got messages on WhatsApp on October 31 in the name of PLFI chief Dinesh Gope, one Sardar ji and two others. Police had nabbed five members of PLFI — Tulsi Pahan, Babloo Karmali, Rakesh Kumar Das, Pradip Gadhi and Rajan Munda — in this connection on November 18. Arms and ammunitions including a carbine, a country-made pistol and a pistol along with cartridges were seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/miscreants-issuing-extortion-calls-claiming-to-be-plfi-members/articleshow/79596776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Left parties call Bengal strike on Tue||Kolkata: The Left Front, including associated parties, have given a general strike call in Bengal on December 8 in support of the Bharat bandh call by farmer associations against the Centre’s recent farm laws. “The farmers’ agitation in Delhi has turned into a historic stir. The five Left Parties are party to the struggle and have supported the bandh call. A total 16 parties in Bengal have given a general strike call in the state in support of the agitating farmers,” a joint statement issued by the 16 parties stated. CPM leader Mohammad Salim questioned Trinamool’s role in the Lok Sabha when the three bills were tabled. “What were the 22 Trinamool MPs doing in the Lok Sabha? The Trinamool chief has jumped into the scene when the stir is spreading,” he said.  Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury also gave a call against BJP and Trinamool from Purulia’s Joypur. “We need to remove both BJP and Trinamool from Bengal to put the state back on the development route,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/left-parties-call-bengal-strike-on-tue/articleshow/79598575.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Same sex couple ties knot at Koderma temple, says they plan to legalise marriage||KODERMA: Although the Centre is against legalising same-sex marriage and says it is “against Indian culture”, two women, aged 24 and 20, from Jharkhand's Koderma district, said they tied the nuptial knot at a temple on November 8 this year and are aspiring to legalise their marriage someday. Cousins and in a relationship for the last five years, the women left home a few days before getting married and informed their families later that they have moved to Delhi. Their families were against the relationship. A few days later, however, the couple was spotted at Chandwara block, barely 6 km from their house. A ruckus was created when the family members of the duo reached the rented accommodation where they put up, leading police to rush to the spot. With no formal complaint and the fact that the women were both adults, police said they cannot intervene. The incident, however, attracted the local media and when mediapersons started flooding their home, the two decided to leave the area and move to an undisclosed location. When TOI asked the landlady, Renu Kumari, about their whereabouts, she denied having any information. Before moving out, the couple, residents of Azad Mohalla under Telaiya police station, told TOI, “We are being threatened of dire consequences by our families, but we don’t care. We are in a relationship for the last five years. We got married at a temple and will soon try for a court marriage.” While the 24-year-old woman stayed with her parents, the 20-year-old woman had lost her parents at an early age and was living with her aunt before running away from the home. To eke out a living, the younger woman took private tuition classes, while the elder woman, a graduate in arts, worked at a shopping mall in Koderma before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/same-sex-couple-ties-knot-at-koderma-temple-says-they-plan-to-legalise-marriage/articleshow/79596765.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Sisir to skip Mamata’s rally, urges local MLAs to attend||Kolaghat/Midnapore/Kolkata: Suvendu Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari, who is Trinamool Congress’ Contai MP and East Midnapore unit president, on Sunday informed West Midnapore leaders he would be unable to attend chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Midnapore rally but urged “all district MLAs” to attend. Till late night, Suvendu, also the Nandigram MLA, chose to remain silent. His brother, Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari, is also unlikely to attend. The possible absence has prompted West Midnapore district leaders to request MP Manas Bhunia and Chhatradhar Mahato to be on the main dais alongside the CM, sources said. According to sources, Trinamool’s West Midnapore president Ajit Maity had called up Adhikari senior asking him to take part in the meeting. Sisir reportedly said he had had a surgery on his foot due to an infection and was thus unable to attend, but that he had urged all East Midnapore MLAs to be at the meeting. Suvendu didn’t speak to the media on Sunday though he was scheduled to do so. All Haldia Municipality councillors were asked to reach Kolkata on Monday to attend a meeting with urban development minister Firhad Hakim. In August 2017, Trinamool had won all 29 wards in the muncipality area. The CM on Sunday made a brief stopover in Kolaghat — meeting two party leaders, one a Suvendu loyalist — as she headed to Midnapore. Among them, former Panskura (East) MLA Biplob Roychowdhury is known in party circles as a Suvendu-baiter. But the CM also spoke to East Midnapore zilla parishad mentor Asit Banerjee. The meeting took place in Deulia Bazar, sources said, the very place where the local leader had held a Bijoya Sammilani in late October, among the first such programmes with party workers that Suvendu attended. The leader wasn’t available for comment. Suvendu has refused to spell out his political future even a day after imprisoned Saradha boss Sudipto Sen wrote a letter, released on Saturday, implicating the rebel leader. Suvendu has dismissed the development, saying “Sen was tutored to write this letter”. A source close to Suvendu said the letter might have prompted the leader to weigh the possibility of fresh legal cases against him. According to the source, if Suvendu took the political plunge after the model code of conduct kicked in, he might be insulated from such cases. On Sunday, ahead of the CM’s meeting, several posters on “Dadar Anugami” (Dada’s followers) — which had spung up recently — were found missing in both Midnapores. But his followers opened an office of their own in Purulia town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sisir-to-skip-mamatas-rally-urges-local-mlas-to-attend/articleshow/79598515.cms||Suman Mandal
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||To meet Didi, supporters wait, partymen walk the extra mile||Midnapore: “Didi, ami Rama, party te achhi (Didi, I am Rama. I am with the party),” said Rama Tewary, a district Trinamool Congress leader, waving at chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s convoy as it entered the Midnapore Circuit House on Sunday evening. And she was not alone. District party leaders and supporters cramped the 5-km stretch from the Kansai river bridge to the circuit house, prompting Banerjee to stop at several places. Amid the ongoing anxiety over party leader Suvendu Adhikari and his loyalists in the West Midnapore district leadership, several leaders walked the extra mile to affirm their “allegiance” to Didi. Banerjee did not speak to any party leader at the circuit house till last reports came in. In fact, Debra MLA Saleema Khatun and TMC’s Keshpur leader Md Rafique, who drove down to meet her, returned after speaking to district leaders over the phone. A family from Narayangarh’s Joita also sat outside the circuit house to meet and seek help from the chief minister. Madan Das said his wife Matangini had suffered severe wounds in her arm after being attacked by BJP workers. “MP Abhishek Banerjee had helped us with the initial medical expenses. But these have now mounted, so we want to meet her for help. Didi will never return us empty-handed,” said the TMC supporter. Till late on Sunday, several people — including local leaders — stayed back, hoping to get a glimpse of the chief minister. District leaders want Banerjee’s West Midnapore meet to be a message to Suvendu loyalists and party detractors. TMC district president Ajit Maiti said: “We expected a record turnout of 1.5 lakh people. At Didi’s meeting everyone is invited. No leader will receive any special invite. It is for them to attend.” Trinamool national secretary Subrata Bakshi is supervising the meeting arrangements. Three helipads have been kept ready for any emergency. Leaders close to Suvendu appeared divided on whether to attend. Sabang leader Amulya Maiti, whose security was withdrawn, said: “It is Didi’s meeting. I will go even if I am not invited. I will go as a party worker.” Former Midnapore Municipality chairperson Pranab Basu said, “I have not been invited. I will only go if invited.” Snehasish Bhowmik, a district party leader, said: “I have received the information on meeting timings on WhatsApp. I will go as a party supporter and mingle with the crowd.” Former Kharagpur municipality chairperson Johor Pal said, “I am unwell. I will not go. Whatever I have to say, I will say later.” Debasish Chowdhury, the party’s Kharagpur leader, said, “This is Didi’s meeting. Nothing else matters. I will attend and will ensure all party workers are there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/to-meet-didi-supporters-wait-partymen-walk-the-extra-mile/articleshow/79598392.cms||Sujoy Khanra
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Tribals, PSC examinees choke N Bengal rail traffic||Malda: Two back-to-back rail blockades — the first by tribal people and the second by examinees — disrupted train movement and traffic for hours in north Bengal on Sunday. As per their announcement, Adivasi Sengel Avijan and Jharkhand Disom Party began their agitation since early morning in different areas of north Bengal. They blocked the railway tracks and National Highway-34. As a result, the New Jalpaiguri-bound Darjeeling Mail was stuck at Azamnagar Road station and Padatik Express at Khurial station. The agitators also stopped a goods train at Adina. Mohon Hasda, state president of JDP, said: “It is a fight for our identity and religion. We have repeatedly urged the Centre to recognize our religion, Sarna. Prior to the 2021 Census we want this to be implemented, but the Centre is reluctant to our appeal.” Hasda claimed the Bengal government has supported their demand and written to the Centre. “The onus is now on the Centre,” he added. However, around 11am, the blockade was lifted following a direction from the central leadership. Hasda said, “Our central leaders asked us to lift the blockade. They might have got some assurance from the government. If our demands are not met, we’ll go for a bigger agitation in the future.” Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung, who was stuck in the rail blockade, travelled to Siliguri by road. The stranded passengers of Darjeeling Mail included about 250 examinees from Malda and Dinajpur who were going to Siliguri to appear for the PSC clerkship examination. All of them were going to take the Part-11 exams, scheduled to start at 11am. The blockade had delayed the train that was slated to reach New Jalpaiguri Station at 8am. The irate candidates sat on the tracks and began a blockade, demanding that their examination be rescheduled. The state home department urged PSC to give these stranded examinees a second chance. “PSC has agreed to do so shortly,” the home department said in a statement later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tribals-psc-examinees-choke-n-bengal-rail-traffic/articleshow/79598571.cms||Subhro Maitra
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||Vegetables’ prices go south in Steel City||Jamshedpur: As supply increases, prices of vegetables have reduced by over 40% in Steel City and according to the traders and wholesalers, it is expected to go down further towards the end of this month. “The wholesale price of potatoes and onions have seen 45% fall in the past one week and by December-end, the price of potatoes will reduce further,” wholesaler Raj Kumar Sah said. Sah, who owns a shop at Pursudih Bazar Samiti, added that potatoes from Uttar Pradesh would start arriving in the next two to three weeks and onions from Maharashtra have already started arriving in a sizeable quantity. “Most of the seasonal vegetables, such as cauliflower, cabbage, spinach, carrot, beans and radish, are available at a reasonable price,” vegetable Kaushal Sahu, who owns a shop in Sakchi, said. Although the price of peas is higher than other seasonal vegetables, it is expected to come down in the next couple of days after surge in supply, wholesaler Kamal Gope said. Needless to say, the low price has brought some respite to the buyers. Kadma-based state government employee M K Panikar (49) said, “The gradual drop in the prices of onions and potatoes was needed as they are a must-have in every kitchen.” Likewise 43-year-old fruits seller Mohamed Ikrar said after nearly six months he is in a position to buy vegetables thanks to the drop in price.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/vegetables-prices-go-south-in-steel-city/articleshow/79596691.cms||B Sridhar
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal’s male Covid CFR drops below 2% for first time||KOLKATA: The male case fatality rate (CFR) in Covid-19 has dropped below the 2% mark in Bengal for the first time in almost nine months since the state reported its first Covid death and a little over four months after the female CFR dipped below this point and has continued to stay that way. The male CFR recorded on Saturday — 1.9% — is still higher than the female CFR, which is now at 1.3%, and a shade higher that the state’s overall figure at 1.7%, but it’s a milestone moment in the fight against the pandemic. The country’s overall CFR is 1.4%. “We have set ourselves a target of a sub-1% CFR in Bengal and an infection rate of 5%,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, a senior physician who is part of the state’s Covid expert committee. “With 1.7% CFR in Bengal and an 8% infection rate, we have a long battle ahead.” Bengal has been showing a skewed male-female CFR. On June 8, the Covid CFR among women was 5.4%, while male CFR was at 4.4%. On July 2, the male-female CFR rates were each 3.5%. Four days later, on July 6, the female CFR slid below the male CFR for the first time. The female CFR on July 6 was 3.3%, while it was 3.4% for males. The slide continued. The female CFR went below the 3% mark on July 13 and slid below 2% on July 31. The male CFR, in contrast, slipped below the 3% mark on July 15 and finally dipped below the 2% mark only this Saturday. The male CFR was 2% for the past 10 days since November 24. Experts have linked the difference in male-female CFR to increased mobility in men and better hygiene practices among women. Mukherjee, however, felt that the variance could also be “linked to” hospital admission rates. “We are further examining it,” he told TOI. A detailed study conducted by the state health department on Covid deaths in Bengal shows that while hypertension, diabetes, cardiac ailments, kidney ailments and COPD have proven to be the most fatal in Covid patients, it has impacted men and women with Covid with varying intensity. Among those who have died with Covid, 30% females had hypertension, while it was 28% in males. In 24.5% Covid deaths among females, the patients had diabetes. Male Covid deaths in which patients had diabetes is 24.2%. Cardiac ailment as a co-morbid condition was found in 10.6% Covid deaths in males and 8.3% among females. Males had reported a higher percentage of kidney ailments (10.2%, against 9.7% in females.) COPD also affected more males (5.5%) than females (3.9%) as the underlying co-morbidity in Covid deaths. For patients with cancer and those on dialysis, Covid had been more fatal in women than men. Sanjukta Dutta, head, emergency medicine, Fortis Hospital, said: “Pre-menopausal women have a lesser chance of heart attack than men. Smoking is also more in the latter. These factors are linked to more male deaths. But there are some instances in which we are noticing that the deterioration is very rapid in some Covid patients. Cytokine storm is a reason, but the other factors need to be diagnosed properly to bring down the CFR further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengals-male-covid-cfr-drops-below-2-for-1st-time/articleshow/79599016.cms||Saibal Sen
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||CAA likely by January-February in West Bengal: Kailash Vijayvargiya||KOLKATA: Senior BJP leader and the party’s Bengal minder, Kailash Vijayvargiya, on Sunday said the Centre was “most likely” to implement CAA in Bengal in January or February of the new year. The Trinamool Congress responded immediately, saying this was yet another instance of the BJP trying to “fool people”. “If Bengal government opposes (the implementation of CAA), the Centre will take steps,” Vijayvargiya said on Sunday at a programme organised at Esplanade to observe the 65th death anniversary of B R Ambedkar. The senior leader claimed there was a dichotomy in Bengal, because, on one hand, Trinamool Congress was “opposing the move to give citizenship to refugees who were persecuted at home on religious grounds”, but the government was “providing ration to infiltrators from Bangladesh.” He claimed this was just an election ploy. “Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had promised to implement CAA. Wherever we go, people have been enquiring about it. We have urged the Union government for its implementation in Bengal. This will help refugees who have settled here due to religious persecution get citizenship. We are optimistic this will be done early.... The law was passed several months back. After the onset of Covid, certain issues had to be prioritised. But it will be implemented now.” The BJP brass is not losing sight of the “rumblings” among Matuas over the citizenship issue. BJP MP from Bongaon and Matua Mahasangha leader Santanu Thakur, in a recent meeting, gave precedence to his Matua identity and claimed that he was ready to “sacrifice everything” for the Matua cause and their demand for citizenship. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim said the BJP was trying to fool people of Bengal. “What does the BJP mean by citizenship? If the Matuas are not citizens, how come they voted in assembly and parliamentary polls year after year? The BJP should stop fooling the people of Bengal,” he said. Trinamool Congress, among the most vocal against CAA and NRC, has not also ignored the resonance of these in some pockets in the state. In Bengal, there are 94 refugee colonies on state government land and there are 237 such colonies on central government land, where almost 1.5 lakh families, who had crossed over from neighbouring Bangladesh 40-50 years ago, reside. On November 4, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced giving 1.3 lakh freehold title deeds following the cabinet decision of regularising all refugee colonies. Distribution of 25,000 freehold title deeds among residents of refugee colonies is likely to be completed by December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/caa-likely-by-jan-feb-in-bengal-kailash/articleshow/79599035.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||In comeback rally, Gurung throws his weight behind TMC||Siliguri/Darjeeling: Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Gurung made his first public appearance in the Hills in three-and-a-half years on Sunday amid high drama triggered by a rail roko, kicking off a new phase in Hills politics. Gurung pledged support to Trinamool Congress in the 2021 assembly elections and talked at length on how BJP treated Gorkhas as a mere vote bank. The party’s Binay Tamang faction indicated it would organise a ‘Swabhiman’ rally and public meeting on December 13. Before that, a political rally organized by them at Jamuney — around 12km from Darjeeling town and close to Gurung’s bastion at Patleybas — on Monday is likely to be closely monitored by both factions. At the Indira Gandhi Maidan in Siliguri, Gurung lashed out at BJP and asked “people of north Bengal” to vote for Mamata Banerjee. “It is because of chief minister and Trinamool supremo Mamata Banerjee that I have resurfaced after three years. Banerjee has assured that she will fulfil the dream of Gorkhas.” Gurung told the gathering at the very venue where he last held a meeting back in 2008. Caught in a rail blockade while travelling by Darjeeling Mail to Siliguri, Gurung made it to the meeting venue in a convoy escorted by state police from Barsoi junction. Gurung said: “In the coming days, we need to show the saffron party — that has betrayed Gorkhas by using them only as a vote bank — we deserve much better.” Gurung further said they would jointly campaign with Trinamool in north Bengal. “We will make a road map within two days and accordingly, start our election campaign,” he said and added he would return to the Hills next week. Asked about GJM faction leaders Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, Gurung said: “We will not share a political platform with them, and neither be a part of their campaign. We have had a word with Banerjee on this issue.” Leaders of the Tamang faction were tightlipped. (Inputs from Subhro Maitra in Malda)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-comeback-rally-gurung-throws-his-weight-behind-tmc/articleshow/79598498.cms||Deep Gazmer
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Sushanta returns to Midnapore after 9 years, holds meet||Chandrakona: Former CPM cabinet minister Sushanta Ghosh returned to his hometown Chandrakona in West Midnapore on Sunday after nine years and addressed a rally for the first time since he was arrested in 2011 in connection with a murder case in Keshpur in which seven people were killed and buried. “It feels good to be back home. This Trinamool Congress regime has tried every means to break me but I haven’t worn down and I am back. The farewell bells for this government have already rung. But unlike those who are thinking BJP as an alternative to Trinamool, I don’t agree with them. What TMC has done in these years is unimaginable, but bringing BJP to power can be 100 times worse. It’s time to support the party holding red flags again,” said Ghosh. Ghosh (53), who was suspended by the party over disciplinary issues, had party colleague Sujan Chakraborty beside him. “Ghorer chhele ghore firlo aaj. The government will try to frame him with more cases but they will not be able to stop him now,” said Chakraborty. A six-time MLA from Garbeta between 1987 and 2016 and minister in the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee cabinet, Ghosh had become an icon for the CPM rank and file after facing a Maoist attack. After the party lost the election, Ghosh was arrested in August, 2011 in connection with the 2002 case and was granted bail by the Supreme Court after spending six months in prison. Police had discovered seven skeletons from an area near Ghosh’s ancestral house in Berachanpa in Garbeta in 2002. Later DNA tests could confirm the identity of at least two skeletons, both belonging to Trinamool Congress workers. The case is on. Following the arrest, he was banished from Garbeta and he could enter his hometown again on Sunday after the Supreme Court lifted the order of externment. TMC worker Shyamal Acharya, whose son was killed in the 2002 incident, said the SC should keep a watch on him. “We are still awaiting justice,” said Acharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sushanta-returns-to-midnapore-after-9-years-holds-meet/articleshow/79598555.cms||Sujoy Khanra
December 7, 2020||Ranchi||‘Chakka jam’ for Sarna code affects rural areas||Ranchi/Jamshedpur: The statewide "chakka jam" called by Adivasi Sengal Abhiyaan (ASA), other tribal groups and Janata Dal-United (JD-U) on Sunday demanding inclusion of the Sarna code in the census of 2021 evoked mixed reactions and mostly affected rural areas. On the outskirts of Ranchi, members of the Akhil Bharatiya Adivasi Vikas Parishad (ABAVP) resorted to rail blockade at Gangaghat station near Jonha for around half-an-hour. In Jamshedpur, protesters blocked the Karandih Chowk resulting in serpentine queues of vehicles in the morning. The Tata-Hata state highway was also blocked for over an hour. Holding Sarna flags and banners, the protesters also shouted slogans during their demonstration. Former MP and ASA president Salkhan Murmu, who took part in the stir, said, "We had put up our demand before the central government to include the Sarna code in the census process by December 5. Since the government didn’t pay heed to the demands of scores of tribals across the country, we went ahead with our chakka jam protest today. It was a huge success in all tribal-dominated pockets of Jharkhand. Tribals in other states, too, are now demanding for a separate code.” Murmu also demanded the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government in the state to put pressure on the Centre in this regard. Phulchand Tirkey of ABAVP said tribals are on a "do-or-die protest" while seeking their demand. “We are not going to sit silent till our demands are met this time. Abhi nai toh fir kabhi nai (Our demand will be never fulfilled if the government does not act this time),” said Tirkey, adding that a separate code will provide the tribals a distinct identity to help conserve and preserve their religious practices and rituals among others. Without a separate code, the tribals are either classified as Hindus, Muslims, Jains or other religious groups in the census so far. Notably, the ruling alliance in Jharkhand had passed a resolution for a separate Sarna code and forwarded it to the Centre. In the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP had also promised in its poll campaigns to provide the code to the tribals in Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chakka-jam-for-sarna-code-affects-rural-areas/articleshow/79596732.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||ACB nabs beat guard taking bribe in Godhra||VADODARA: A forest beat guard in Godhra was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) and a range forester has been declared as absconding for accepting a bribe of Rs 23,500 to let off a truck filled with illegally mined stones from the forest area. ACB officials said forester Gunvantsinh Parmar had stopped a truck which was on its way to a factory to sell the stones mined illegally from the forest area on December 3. Parmar demanded a bribe of Rs 60,000 to let off the truck. After negotiations, he accepted Rs 5,000 from the driver on the spot and asked him to pay Rs 30,000 later. After paying Rs 5,000, the driver approached ACB as he was not willing to pay the remaining amount. ACB sleuths planned a trap and asked the complainant to contact Parmar and ask him to meet him in Godhra town on Saturday to pay the remaining amount. Before they were to meet, Parmar told the complainant that a beat guard named Govind Chaudhary would meet him and that the money should be paid to him. Chaudhary met the complainant near BSNL office where he accepted the money and was nabbed by ACB officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/acb-nabs-beat-guard-taking-bribe/articleshow/79595905.cms||---
December 7, 2020||World||1.2 million doses of China-made Covid vaccine arrive in Indonesia||JAKARTA: Indonesia's government said 1.2 million doses of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by China-based biopharmaceutical company Sinovac Biotech arrived in the country late Sunday. President Joko Widodo said in a televised address that another 1.8 million doses of the vaccine are expected to arrive in early January. “We are very grateful, thank God, the vaccine is now available so that we can immediately curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease,” Widodo said. The government is still waiting for millions of other doses of the Sinovac vaccine to arrive in the form of raw materials that will be further processed by state-owned pharmaceutical holding company PT Bio Farma. However, Widodo said that emergency use authorization from the country's Food and Drug Control Agency is still needed for mass vaccinations to start. Indonesia is already cooperating with Sinovac in phase 3 clinical trials of its vaccine candidate, with tests being carried out on 1,620 volunteers in West Java's Bandung city since August. The government also looked into partnerships with two other Chinese drug manufacturers, Sinopharm and CanSino Biologics. Penny Lukito, head of the Food and Drug Control Agency, estimated that the Sinovac vaccine would obtain emergency use authorization from the agency by the third or fourth week of January, after the agency evaluates interim results from the third-stage clinical trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/1-2-million-doses-of-china-made-covid-vaccine-arrive-in-indonesia/articleshow/79599702.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Salary not our income source: Delhi councillor on tape||NEW DELHI: South Delhi councillor Manoj Mehlawat, arrested by CBI for allegedly taking Rs 10 lakh bribe from a builder, was caught on tape telling the complainant that "ab hamari source of income salary nahi hai...aise hi hoga (now salary is not my source of income...it will be like this only), the agency has claimed. BJP had suspended Mehlawat from its primary membership after his arrest last week. The councillor's remarks were caught on tape during a covert verification exercise by CBI into the allegations against him. The builder had approached the investigating agency alleging that Mehlawat had repeatedly called him on phone demanding Rs 10 lakh bribe to allow construction of a house in up-scale Vasant Kunj without hindrance. The councillor threatened the builder that he could not only demolish the ongoing construction project but also not allow him to "lay a single brick" in the future. After receiving the complaint, CBI, as a standard operating procedure, provided the complainant with a digital tape recorder and an independent witness to verify the allegations. During the conversation caught on tape, Mehlawat allegedly asked for full payment of the bribe to allow the construction work to go on. "Main toh kehta hoon bhai ek baari mai kar do...baar baar se achcha hai...Hume bhi kisi ka kuch karna hota hai bhai...Ab hamari source of income salary nahi hai...aise hi hoga (I am saying pay in one go...it is better than installments...We also have to take care of others...Now our source of income is not salary...it will happen like this)," the councillor had allegedly told the builder at his office at Kaveri Apartments in Vasant Kunj. The conversation was caught on tape and corroborated by independent witness. It is now part of the FIR. CBI made public its FIR on Sunday evening, nearly three days after Mehlawat was nabbed by the agency while taking the bribe against the Supreme Court directive to make the FIR public within 24 hours as far as possible. Mehlawat became councillor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation from Vasant Kunj in 2017 elections. According to media reports, there were serious complaints against him from local functionaries, but he became a prominent face in the local unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-councillor-on-tape-salary-not-our-income-source/articleshow/79599706.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Corporations to present budget, unkept promises in focus||NEW DELHI: Delhi's three civic bodies are all set to present their budget proposals this week. While South Delhi Municipal Corporation's executive wing will deliver its budget proposal on Monday (December 7), North Delhi Municipal Corporation's budget proposal will be presented on Tuesday. The budget proposal for East Delhi Municipal Corporation will be presented on Wednesday. Last year, initial budget expenditures varied between Rs 4,500 crore and 5,500 crore with annual increase of around 10%. Senior civic officials say that the coronavirus pandemic has severely affected the revenue generation from parking, toll tax and advertisement because of which many revisions will be carried out in the 2020-21 budget and a house tax hike should be expected. Many initiatives announced in the last year's budget like smog towers in each constituency, solar plants in Faridabad and Ghumanhera, and mechanical sweeping in inner colony roads, however, still remain on paper. A senior north corporation official said that several plans announced last year were derailed due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. "We have not been able to expedite many revenue generating schemes. Entire department has been focused on fighting the pandemic on war footing," the official added. The north corporation had announced that it would set up 26 smog towers to curb air pollution but nothing happened. It had also announced to set up e-rickshaw charging stations. Development of heritage circuit, administrative reforms like consolidated ward development fund and beautification of markets too remained just a promise. In case of the south corporation, the projected expenditure estimates for 2019-20 were 5245.6 crore-an increase of 11% on previous year. Senior SDMC officials say that the magnitude of the annual increase will not be the same this year due to financial constraints. In its annual budgeting process, the commissioner first moves budget proposals, which is followed by several rounds of discussions and critiques. After passing through several stages, the budget is finally approved by the House. The south corporation had last year announced solar parks in Faridabad and Ghumanhera and introduction of mechanical sweepers and suction machines. "The increase in budget will not be like a normal year. Our revenue streams have reduced. Several rebates have also been provided to the contractors who invoked force majeure clauses for the lockdown period," said an SDMC official. Drawn over several months, the corporation budget process has been often criticised for its length. Commissioner budgets have been pushing for house tax increase from last several years but the deliberative wings have always shot them down. However, the civic bodies have introduced several new taxes in the pandemic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-corporations-to-present-budget-unkept-promises-in-focus/articleshow/79599711.cms||Paras Singh
December 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Four injured after fire breaks out at empty plot in Ambala||AMBALA: Four people were injured in a fire that broke out at an empty plot in Jasmeet Nagar in Ambala on Sunday. "Expired perfume bottles that were dumped at the plot caught fire. Injured have been shifted to hospital. The fire has been doused now," said a fire official. Haryana: Four injured in fire that broke out at an empty plot in Jasmeet Nagar in #Ambala(ANI) https://t.co/02EQR44TGi— TOIChandigarh (@TOIChandigarh) 1607301606000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/four-injured-after-fire-breaks-out-at-empty-plot-in-ambala/articleshow/79599713.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh HC orders FIR against 3 cops for branding man ‘criminal’||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh high court has ordered compensation of Rs 5 lakh to a man, who was wrongly projected as a ‘bounty-carrying criminal’ by police in Gwalior. The compensation will be recovered from the three policemen who “violated his fundamental rights by keeping him in illegal detention, and tarnished his image by presenting him as a criminal”, Justice G S Ahluwalia of the Gwalior bench ordered last week. The court also imposed a cost of Rs 20,000, to be paid jointly by the three cops within 15 days. The court came down heavily on the state police for not complying with its orders related to publishing images of ‘suspects’. It also ordered Lokayukta police to register an FIR against the three cops — TI of Bohadpur police station, a sub-inspector and a constable. The government has to submit action-taken reports on all the orders within 16 days. The writ petition was filed by Arun Sharma, who says he was forcibly evicted by the three cops from a shop he had taken on rent. “We complained to the SP. The policemen returned half of his belongings but threatened him with dire consequences. Later, they picked him up from his house, claiming that he was a criminal carrying a Rs 5,000 award. A press release was also issued with his photographs. When the SP was appraised of this, an inquiry was conducted and the policemen said Sharma’s arrest was a case of mistaken identity,” said Sharma’s lawyer Suresh Agrawal. Patrolling accused in public is violative: CourtSharma alleges that police roughed up and evicted from the shop at the behest of his landlady. His belongings were taken to the police station, where he was allegedly forced to give an undertaking that he would vacate the shop. Only then were some of his belongings returned, he says. The rest of the belongings and money haven’t been returned, he said. After hearing all arguments, the court noted the “hostile attitude” of police in protecting the life and liberty of citizens. “This court, by order dated 2.11.2020, had quashed a part of circular dated 2.1.2014 issued by the DGP by which police were authorized to share personal information and photographs of accused and victims (covered or uncovered) with the media. Patrolling of accused in public was also held to be violative of Article 21 of the Constitution, and accordingly, the DGP was directed to issue necessary instructions in this regard,” reads the order. Advocate general M P S Raghuvanshi, submitted that a circular on this was issued on November 7. Asked if there was any direction to police not to parade the accused in public, he prayed to file his reply after tea break. He submitted that the court order is being complied with, and a specific circular restraining police from parading the accused in public shall be issued. During the hearing, Gwalior SP Amit Sanghi said he had received a call from Sharma’s brother, saying he had been taken into custody though he was innocent. The SP said he immediately got it investigated and ensured Sharma was released when it was found the respondents (the three cops) had wrongly taken him in custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-hc-orders-fir-against-3-cops-for-branding-man-criminal/articleshow/79599731.cms||P Naveen
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Fuel prices at record high in Bhopal||BHOPAL: There was an increase in prices of petrol and diesel on Sunday again. Though the increase was nominal, the cumulative effect of increasing prices of both the commodities over several days has now taken the price of petrol to Rs 91.19 per litre and diesel to Rs 81.41 per litre, going beyond the prices of December 2018, when petrol had touched Rs 89 per litre and diesel, Rs 79 per litre. “The way petrol prices are rising, I think by this year end, it will touch Rs 100 per litre. At a time when the government should see to it that prices of petrol and diesel don’t rise because of the crippled public transport system due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has made it compulsory for everyone to use their own vehicles, but the prices are constantly rising,” said Rishi Shrivastava, a marketing executive. President of MP Petrol Pump Owners’ Association, Ajay Singh, said, “Raising tax on petroleum products is the easiest way for any government to mop up resources. Last government had raised VAT on petrol and diesel and now, the Centre has raised excise duty on petrol and diesel and this has been done whenever prices of crude oil in the international market fell,” he said. Singh said crude prices in the International market are still almost at half the rate than in 2018, when petrol prices had touched Rs 90 per litre. It was $82-83 per barrel then, it is $48 per barrel now. He, however, said that the both at the Centre and state governments are spending a lot of money in containing the pandemic because of money they are generating from excise duty and VAT. Different people may have different views on whether the government should control the prices of petrol and diesel in the wake of the pandemic and consequent economic problems people are facing or use it for revenue generation themselves at a time when its own economy is in ruins, but the fact of the matter is that in the past 10 days, prices of petrol and diesel came down slightly only on December 1, otherwise they have been consistently rising by a few paisa every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/fuel-prices-at-record-high-in-bhopal/articleshow/79599736.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 7, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: One more victim succumbs||RAJKOT: One more victim of the Uday Shivanand Covid Hospital fire tragedy in Rajkot died on Saturday night, taking the toll to six. Police said Thavar Maheshweri (66) succumbed to burns at a private hospital on Vidhyanagar Road in Rajkot. Five people were charred to death and one received burn injuries in the tragedy at the ICU of the hospital. The deceased were identified as Keshu Akbari (50), Sanjay Rathod (57), Nitin Badani (61), Ramsinh Loh (62) and Rasik Agravat (69). The blaze in the hospital was suspected to have been caused by a short-circuit. The state government had ordered a probe into the incident, following which the Rajkot taluka police station started the investigation. The police arrested Dr Prakash Modha, his son Vishal Modha, the directors of Gokul Hospital — Tejas Karamata and Tejas Motivaras — and Dr Digvijaysinh Jadeja for gross negligence. All the arrested accused were later released on bail. The accused had taken the hospital on rent to start a Covid hospital in September. The hospital had been closed for the past several years. The hospital is a three-floor hospital. Its ICU is on the first floor. At the time of the incident, there were 33 patients admitted, out of which 28 were rescued by the Rajkot fire brigade. The fire was doused within half an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-more-victim-succumbs/articleshow/79596136.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||AAU betters ICAR rankings, jumps 13 positions to 24th||VADODARA/ ANAND: The ‘ICAR ranking of agricultural universities for the year 2019’ released by the education division of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been a mixed bag for the state’s varsities. While the state-funded Anand Agricultural University (AAU) has bettered its position this year by jumping 13 notches to be ranked among top 25 agriculture universities of the country at 24, it’s been a dismal show for Navsari Agricultural University’s which slipped from 14 in 2018 to 42 this time. The same is with Junagadh Agricultural University which went down 10 ranks from 20 in 2018 to be ranked 30 in this year’s rankings. ICAR’s ranking that was released on Saturday ranks 67 agriculture universities of the country with the National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal topping the chart. ICAR is the apex body for coordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences “We could better our rank from 37 in 2018 only through constructive work culture of our team and support from both state and central governments,” said AAU’s vice-chancellor Dr R V Vyas. The Sardar Krushinagar Dantiwada Agricultural University, Sardarkrushinagar climbed up rung higher this year from 46 to 45.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/aau-betters-icar-rankings-jumps-13-positions-to-24th/articleshow/79595966.cms||Prashant Rupera
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh prepares to undertake mass Covid-19 vaccinations||BHOPAL: State government has initiated preparations for vaccination for Covid-19 on war footing and it will be executed with ease once the vaccine is available. All protocols and supporting arrangements to facilitate movement, storage and administration of the vaccine has been undertaken by the state government. The frontline Covid-19 warriors followed by the citizens aged above 50 years will be administered the vaccine first, say officials. Government has prepared a database of more than 4 lakh frontline workers, including doctors, nurses, ANMs who will be administered the vaccine in first phases and will also be playing pivotal role in vaccination. “We have sound experience in mass vaccinations, like last year within a week more than 2.5 crore children were vaccinated for MR (measles rubella) vaccine, which was also a new vaccine. Platform is ready, training of trainers (TOT) will be done anytime next week at the Centre. We just need to do a mapping of the population above 50 areawise and start vaccination”, said an official. It is being ensured that the vaccine will be kept at 50 cold chain points in the state and more than 1,200 vaccine transportation vehicles with inbuilt cold storage facility is ready. About 2,500 workers have already been trained at primary levels, said sources. The entire process of vaccination will be automated this time, like people who are to be vaccinated will receive details about date, time and venue in advance on their phones, said sources. This will ensure that there is no rush at one particular point of time at the vaccination centres, added sources. Apart from it, vaccination centres have also been identified, this includes hospitals, dispensaries, schools sources said. For those whose phone numbers will not be in our data base, ground level health workers will be deployed to mobilise such people for vaccinations, sources said. The preparations are being monitored by chief minister and reviewed by health minister Prabhuram Chowdhary on a regular basis. The state-level steering committee headed by chief secretary has already distributed work, and state-level task force led by additional chief secretary has distributed works between different departments involved in the works and prepared a roadmap for effective and quick vaccination once the vaccine is available, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-prepares-to-undertake-mass-covid-19-vaccinations/articleshow/79599755.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||1400+ new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh, active cases drop to 13,000||BHOPAL: Count of Covid-19 patients in Madhya Pradesh reached 214505 on Sunday as 1455 new cases were reported. Sunday was the seventh consecutive day when the number of people recovering in a single day outnumbered the number of people testing positive. In past five days between November 30 and December 5, the number of active patients in the state has reduced by 1,583. There were a total of 14974 active cases in the state on November 29 and the number started reducing since November 30. As on December 6, there are a total of 13391 active patients in the state. Apart from the fresh cases, 11 deaths were also reported on Sunday. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3337 in the state. The districts from which these deaths were reported includes Indore where 3 death cases were reported, Jabalpur and Bhopal where 2 deaths each were reported and one death each was reported from Khargone, Rewa, Mandsaur and Singrauli districts. On Sunday new cases were reported from 51 of the 52 districts of the state. It was only Mandla district where no new case was found on Sunday. And cases were reported in double figures from 26 districts of the state. Of the 32496 samples that were tested on Sunday a total of 1455 people tested positive. Thus overall positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Sunday stood at 4.4%. On the brighter side, 1585 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from the hospital. With these people recovering, the count of people recovering from covid-19 reached 197777.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1400-new-covid-cases-in-madhya-pradesh-active-cases-drop-to-13000/articleshow/79599798.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Miscreants vandalise Kolkata club in minister’s para||KOLKATA: More than two dozen men — reportedly part of a rogue biker gang — allegedly attacked and vandalized a prominent south Kolkata club whose president is a senior minister in the state cabinet. The club also boasts of having several prominent citizens in its committees. The police said that at least two rooms of Naktala Udayan Sangha, which organizes one of the city’s biggest Durga pujas and has education minister Partha Chatterjee — who resides barely 200 metres from the spot — as its president, was ransacked between 11.40 pm and 11.55 pm on Saturday. Locals claimed that two persons — a private security guard and a local electrician — who had tried to stop the goons were assaulted. They had to run to the terrace to save themselves from the attackers. Barely a year ago, an anti-rowdy squad team of detective department had assisted the women’s team members — ‘The Winners’ — to nab 13 riders from this area for allegedly misbehaving with women. “We are ascertaining if the same group is involved,” said an officer. The incident that took place in the heart of a middle class south suburban neighbourhood has sent shock waves in the area. Police have intensified vigil after the minister took up the matter with senior officers. Chatterjee expressed surprise over the incident claiming that it was the first ever such instance in the peaceful neighbourhood in the past several decades. “I was surprised beyond limits when I heard about the attack on the club. This is really alarming and I have asked police to identify and nab the miscreants at the earliest,” Chatterjee said. He added: “This is an act by miscreants. Prima facie, there appears to be no political lines. I have asked the police to increase security.” Club general secretary and KMC coordinator Bappaditya Dasgupta too felt that the miscreants should be arrested soon to restore the confidence of locals. He, though, ruled out any political link. “We are a close-knit neighbourhood rising above politics. Locals here love to live in peace,” said Dasgupta. He insisted that all those involved in the incident were “outsiders.” Police said with the club’s CCTVs not functioning, they are depending on photographs clicked by locals during the rampage to identify the miscreants. Rogue biking has seen a rise in the area since the past eight months. According to local Dipon Banerjee, it was a fallout of an incident that took place earlier on Saturday evening. “There is a cafeteria on NSC Bose Road that many outsiders visit. Around 8.45 pm on Saturday, some bikers began racing against one another. One of the riders hit a two-wheeler of a local resident. There was an argument and club members present at the spot warned the riders,” said Banerjee. Sources claimed that a couple of locals also slapped a biker when he “abused” them. “They threatened that they would return soon,” said Banerjee. Locals said the bikers returned around 11.40 pm, armed with bricks, sticks and rods. Local electrician Pannalal Ghosh, who was returning home then, was beaten up when he tried to stop them. He received 12 stitches. A team by DC (SSD) Rashid Munir khan reached the spot and spoke to locals. “Raids are on in areas near Narendrapur,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/miscreants-vandalise-club-in-ministers-para/articleshow/79596777.cms||Saikat Ray
December 7, 2020||Indore||Indore MP wants Khajrana to be called ‘Ganesh Nagar’||INDORE: Indore MP Shankar Lalwani jumped on the renaming bandwagon on Sunday and suggested that Khajrana area of Indore, be called ‘Ganesh Nagar’ after the famous Ganesh temple. Lalwani said he has received the demand from local residents and he also supports it. The temple is known as Khajrana Ganesh Mandir, and its website also describes it as such. It was built in 1735 during the reign of Rani Ahilyabai Holkar. “Indore is famous for the Ganesh temple of Khajrana, and Khajrana is known because of the temple. The word ‘Khajrana’ comes in between without any relevance. The area from Ganesh temple to Kalka temple can be changed to ‘Ganesh Nagar’, and the rest of the area from the Dargah can still be called ‘Khajrana’,” Lalwani said. He said there have been instances of names of places being “changed to their original ones”, It is believed that the Holkars had hidden treasure or ‘khajana’ — inside a well in the area, which led to it being called ‘Khajrana’. Another belief is that the locality is named after a famous dargah, which is said to be over 300 years old. Lalwani’s suggestion comes a week after pro tem speaker Rameshwar Sharma demanded that Idgah Hills in Bhopal be renamed ‘Guru Nanak Tekri’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-mp-wants-khajrana-to-be-called-ganesh-nagar/articleshow/79599813.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||User fee may kick in at 120 railway stations||NEW DELHI: The government is likely to take a final decision on levying user charge at certain railway stations in the next two weeks, sources said. The railway ministry is proposing the charge to be between Rs 10 and Rs 50 for different classes of travellers with the passengers travelling in first class paying the maximum charge. Officials said while the Cabinet will decide on the charge, the railway ministry will take the call on how many stations will be covered under this scheme. In the first phase, the charge would be applicable in nearly 120 big stations including New Delhi, Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (Mumbai), Nagpur, Tirupati, Chandigarh, Gwalior, Puducherry and Sabarmati. Sources said the bid dates for two major stations - New Delhi and Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus - have been extended till December 18 and 15 respectively. Collection of user fees will be one of the assured revenue streams for private players who will make massive investments in the redevelopment of major railway stations. “There will be more and good response, if the bidders know what the user charge will be,” said a source. TOI has learnt that the platform tickets at all these stations may also go up marginally and in the case of passengers, the charge would be included in the fare. Sources said deliberations are on whether the user fee for passengers in unreserved category and those taking suburban trains would be minimal or would be exempted from paying such a fee. The railway ministry had earlier said the collected amount will be utilised to improve the passenger facilities at these major stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/user-fee-may-kick-in-at-120-railway-stations/articleshow/79599861.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 7, 2020||Kolkata||Petrol price up by 29p, diesel 26p in Kolkata||Petrol price on Sunday was hiked by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 26 paise in Kolkata, the fifth straight day of increase in rates due to firming international oil prices. The price of petrol in Kolkata rose to Rs 85.19 and diesel to Rs 77.44, according to a price notification of oil marketing companies. This is the fifth straight day of price hike and the 14th increase in rates since November 20, when oil companies resumed daily price revision after a nearly two-month hiatus. Rates are now at the highest level since September 2018. Brent crude oil has risen 34% - from $36.90 per barrel on October 30 to $49.50 on December 4, the last trading day, on hopes that Covid-19 vaccines would lead to demand recovery. Before the November 20 hike in rates in India, petrol prices had been static since September 22 and diesel since October 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/petrol-price-up-by-29p-diesel-26p-in-kolkata/articleshow/79599878.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Vadodara||110 new Covid cases push Vadodara to 19,000 mark||VADODARA: With Vadodara city and district registering 110 fresh positive cases, the total number of Covid-19 cases on Sunday reached 18,688. Of the 110 fresh cases, 69 are from within the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) limits while the rest – 41 – are from rural areas of the district. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases just within VMC limits has reached 13,000 mark (12,979 to be precise) while that in Vadodara rural has reached 5,673 during the pandemic. The 110 fresh cases were results of 3,929 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. The official death toll on Sunday remained unchanged at 226. Of the total 1,228 active cases, condition of 1,005 patients is said to be stable. There are 160 patients who are being treated with oxygen support while 63 others are under ventilator or BI-PAP machine. The total number of discharges reached 17,234 with 83 from home isolation too getting discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/110-new-cases-push-vadodara-to-19k-mark/articleshow/79595933.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Shimla||Himachal reports 11 deaths, 553 new cases||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 11 Covid-19 deaths and 553 positive cases on Sunday, while 520 patients were declared as recovered. Four deaths each were reported in Kangra and Shimla districts, two in Mandi district, and one in Hamirpur. The state has reported a total of 44,958 cases, of which 8,269 cases are active, 35,923 patients have recovered, 722 patients have died and 34 have migrated out. New cases include 38 each from Bilaspur and Chamba, 30 from Hamirpur, 63 from Kangra, four from Kinnaur, 48 from Kullu, five from Lahaul-Spiti, 108 from Mandi, 92 from Shimla, 10 from Sirmaur, 90 from Solan, and 27 from Una. Recovered patients include 25 from Bilaspur, 29 from Chamba, 10 from Hamirpur, 32 from Kangra, nine from Kinnaur, 96 from Kullu, 21 from Lahaul-Spiti, 17 from Mandi, 194 from Shimla, 16 from Sirmaur, and 71 from Solan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-reports-11-deaths-553-new-cases/articleshow/79598549.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Students to clear air over board exams with minister||GURUGRAM: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will go live on Twitter and Facebook on December 10 to address the queries and concerns of students of classes 10 and 12, their parents and teachers regarding board exams as well as entrance tests like NEET and JEE for the coming year. The pandemic has left the students in an unprecedented situation, with classes switching to an online module. Arti Chopra, principal of Amity School in Sector 46, said amid the Covid-19 crisis, several reports about online and practical exams have led to confusion. “We hope to get clarity on the 2020-21 board exams and also about entrance tests during the interaction. Many students, parents and teachers have reached out to the minister on Twitter and shared suggestions or concerns with the hashtag #EducationMinisterGoesLive,” she added. Students also seem to be concerned about practical exams, which could not be conducted online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/students-to-clear-air-over-board-exams-with-minister/articleshow/79598550.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Shimla||HP: Hill tourism takes a hit as visitors continue to cancel their bookings||MANALI: The farmers’ protests at Delhi borders have now started badly impacting the tourism in Himachal Pradesh where hotel booking cancellations have continued as tourists are clueless about whether they should plan their holiday trip or they should wait for a few more days. Due to pandemic, tourism in Himachal has already been struggling to come back on track. According to hoteliers, the recent order of imposing night curfew in Shimla, Kangra, Mandi and Kullu-Manali has also played spoilsport. Now, tourists have started to cancel their bookings as farmers’ protests have blocked major roads out of Delhi. “Covid-19, ban on plying of AC tourist buses, night curfew and the protests by farmers are all set to destroy the tourism industry,” Himachal Travel Agents Association president Budhi Parkash said. “Neither we oppose nor do we support these protests but we are worried about our business. Tourists look for a pleasant and worry-free environment to enjoy their holiday trip. Most tourists are not able to decide if they should plan their trip or not,” he added. The average hotel occupancy in Manali, Shimla, Dalhousie and Dharamshala is 15-20%. The hotels have reported a large number of cancellations. The festive season, which used to attract thousands of tourists to Himachal in October and November, has been worst in terms of business. Hoteliers are now hoping for good business in Christmas and New Year Eve. Hotelier Ritesh Sood said the word “night curfew” had spread panic among tourists. “Nobody in Himachal remains outside home in night time in cold weather. The government should have specifically tightened the screw on night parties and other social events. Unlike most other states, Himachal is a tourism state,” he said. Many hoteliers and travel agents are reporting incidents of police stopping tourists’ movement during curfew hours from 9pm to 6am. They are also getting calls from their clients that they are not feeling safe as many major highways leading to Delhi are blocked. Not resuming AC bus service from Delhi to Himachal is also taking toll on tourism. However, despite so many odds, some tourists are enjoying their stay in Himachal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hill-tourism-takes-a-hit-as-visitors-continue-to-cancel-their-bookings/articleshow/79598582.cms||Suresh Sharma
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Man booked over triple talaq in Bhopal's Ashoka Garden||BHOPAL: A 28-year-old married woman approached Ashoka Garden police station on Saturday and lodged a complaint against her husband, alleging that he pronounced triple talaq in September 2019 after repeatedly pressuring her for Rs 6 lakh dowry. Police said they were married in 2017. In 2018, the woman had lodged a dowry complaint against her husband at Ashoka Garden police station, but later compromised in the court. Investigating officer SI Yogita Jain said that the complainant resides with her parents in Shahjehanabad and is married to Rashid, who works as a contractor and is a resident of Ashoka Garden. SI Jain said a case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered and investigations are underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/man-booked-over-triple-talaq-in-bhopals-ashoka-garden/articleshow/79599921.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Eight doctors among 262 new Covid cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A total of 262 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the city on Sunday taking the count of the patients to 32864. Among the new cases, 6 are children under 11 years of age while 2 are under 5 years of age. The 262 people who had tested positive on Sunday also include 16 elderly who are aged above 70 years. Of these 16, five are above 80 years of age and one among them is 91years old. The new cases reported on Sunday also includes 8 doctors. The areas from which these cases were reported includes Char Imli where one new case was reported while 9 cases were from Arera Colony. Similarly from Kolar and Kolar road localities, a total of 26 new cases were reported. Likewise, 12 new cases were found from the Hoshangabad Road. One new patient was also found in Bairagarh. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 529 lives in the city. Of the 32864 cases, 30279 have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/eight-doctors-among-262-new-covid-cases-in-bhopal/articleshow/79599889.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Renaming places to fulfil public demand, says V D Sharma||BHOPAL: State BJP chief V D Sharma said that the ongoing campaign to rename Idgah Hills in Bhopal as ‘Guru Nanak Tekri’ and Hoshangabad as Narmadapuram, was a public demand and not the ruling party’s agenda. He also said that the proposed law against ‘love jihad’ is not against any religion but to control crimes against daughters of the state. “The demand to rename places such as Idgah Hills and Hoshangabad were raised by the public. BJP is only trying to cater to public sentiments. Members of the Sikh and Sindhi communities have urged to rename Idgah Hills as ‘Guru Nanak Tekri’ and we have conveyed their feelings to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan,” said Sharma, on Sunday. Sharma’s statement came after Lok Sabha MP from Indore, Shankar Lalwani, suggested changing the name of Khajrana locality as Ganesh Nagar. Some BJP leaders have also prepared a list of cities and areas where the public have sought changes in the existing names, sources said. Sharma also welcomed the CM’s resolve to take strict action against forceful conversions and marriages. Sharma said that the decision by the Chouhan government to pass MP Dharma Swatantrya Vidheyak (Religious Freedom bill) in the coming session of the assembly will inspire other states to control crimes against their daughters. “The law is not against any religion. We are not against ‘love’ but ‘jihad’ and the law will end forceful conversions and marriages. The law will not obstruct an individual’s freedom nor try to deprive them of their rights,” Sharma said. “The way the chief minister has finalised the proposal and theoretically approved the format with stricter punishment, is highly commendable. This would encourage other states to follow and make a move against forcible conversions and marriages,” Sharma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-renaming-places-to-fulfil-public-demand-says-v-d-sharma/articleshow/79599952.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||Farmers stir gives opposition rallying point; 18 parties support Bharat bandh||NEW DELHI: Leaders of 11 parties, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, DMK chief M K Stalin, NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and Left Front’s Sitaram Yechury and D Raja, on Sunday said they would lend their “whole-hearted” support to the December 8 Bharat bandh call by farmers’ unions protesting against the three agri-marketing laws and demanding their repeal. A joint statement signed by the heads of the 11 parties said the new laws were passed in Parliament in a “brazen anti-democratic manner”, preventing a structured discussion and voting. They also claimed the laws “threaten India’s food security, destroy Indian agriculture and our farmers, lay the basis for the abolishment of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and mortgage Indian agriculture and our markets to the caprices of multi-national agri-business corporates and domestic corporates”. Shiv Sena, Trinamool, TRS, Akali Dal, AAP and BJP allies — Assam’s AGP and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party in Rajasthan — too came out in support of the stir and Bharat bandh call, though they were not signatories to the joint statement. “The central government must adhere to democratic processes and norms and meet the legitimate demands of our ‘kisans-annadatas’,” the letter signed by leaders of parties, including National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah and RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav, said. Earlier in the day, Congress said on December 8, the party would hold day-long protests in all district and state headquarters in solidarity with the farmers. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi has backed the farmer community, demanding that the government give in to their demands. “The entire world is witnessing the plight of our farmers. The entire world is seeing the horrible sight of farmers sitting outside the capital in the middle of the night in winter waiting for the government to listen to them,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said, slamming the government for the hurry with which the farm laws were enacted. Khera claimed the Centre did not take farmers into confidence and was now claiming to work in their interest. “What we are seeing today is the result of a conspiracy between the government and its corporate friends, wherein the victim will be the farmer, and the farmer knows this,” he added. Watch Farmers' protest: AAP to support 'Bharat Bandh' by farmers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-stir-gives-opposition-rallying-point-18-parties-support-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79598201.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Bhopal||With no toilets, Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur women defecate in the open||BHOPAL: The day chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan appealed to make Madhya Pradesh number one in all aspects of ‘swachchata’ (cleanliness) in state capital Bhopal, some 400 kilometres away in a small tribal hamlet of Chhatarpur district, tribal women reminded him of his promise of making ‘shouchalays’ available that the CM seems to have forgotten. Chouhan had made the appeal to make MP the number one state in cleanliness at Minto Hall on Saturday. The women said that more than two-and-half years ago during the run up to the assembly polls in 2018, Chouhan had reached Surajpura and promised toilets to them. “He even did some spade work symbolising the construction of toilets”, said Chandrani, a woman whom CM Chouhan had called her sister. “We are forced to defecate out in the open as the ‘shouchalays’ are yet to be constructed and those which were constructed are not operational till date. There is hardly any water available in them. In fact, there are a number of issues”, said women from Surajpura panchayat. Responding to the toilet crisis, the chief executive officer of Rajnagar panchayat, Pratipal Singh Bagri said, “Shouchalayas were constructed in almost all the panchayats. You have brought this matter to my notice, let me confirm it tomorrow.” Chandrani said, “The CM had called me his sister during his visit. I was even given a cheque of Rs11,000”. During the election campaign, when Chouhan had come to know about the crisis, he announced that he would not let the women go out for defecation. He said that he would ensure that toilets are constructed in the village. “Perhaps CM Chouhan forgot his promise the moment he boarded a chopper to land in another village”, the villagers said. The construction of some toilets is over but they have been converted into kitchens. Some of them could not be used for the want of water and some do have four walls but toilet seats are missing. “The end result is that we still go out in the morning and defecate in open”, the women added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/with-no-toilets-madhya-pradeshs-chhatarpur-women-defecate-in-the-open/articleshow/79599956.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 7, 2020||India||After 3-week plateau, Covid-19 cases in India show a 16% decline||NEW DELHI: After staying around the same level for three weeks, fresh Covid-19 cases in India fell this week by around 16% from the previous seven days. With this, the weekly count of cases is now down by nearly two-thirds (62%) from its peak in September 6-13, with no signs yet of a second wave of the pandemic in the country.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The death toll has shown no significant movement in the past four weeks and continues to hover around the 3,500 mark, with 3,539 fatalities recorded during the week (November 29-December 6). However, compared with the peak of 8,175 deaths recorded in September 13-20, Covid-related fatalities have dropped by 58%.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); There were 2,45,599 new cases reported this week, down from 2,91,903 last week (November 22-29). The weekly case count had been around the 2.9-lakh mark in the previous two weeks as well. This week’s cases, therefore, represent the first big fall in numbers in four weeks. The fall, coming on the third week after Diwali, also shows that there’s no second wave of Covid in the country yet, although there have been spikes and falls in several states. Overall, weekly cases in the country have been falling for 12 weeks now, except for one week when a slight increase was recorded. Meanwhile, active cases in the country fell below 4 lakh for the first time in 139 days. The pool of active cases has been shrinking steadily since the peak of the pandemic in September. However, the rate of reduction in active cases has slowed considerably in recent weeks, with the count also rising for a few days. It has taken 26 days for active cases to fall from 5 lakh to 4 lakh. By contrast, the drop from 6 lakh to 5 lakh had taken 12 days, and the previous two one-lakh falls had each happened in a week’s time. On Sunday, fresh cases in the country dropped to 33,231 after staying in the 34,000-36,000 level in the previous four days. The day’s death toll too fell to 391, which was the first time since July 2 that India had recorded less than 400 Covid fatalities in a day. The drop in the death toll was mainly on account of Maharashtra recording 40 fatalities on Sunday, a big drop from the previous day’s count of 95. Delhi, too, reported a slight fall in fatalities, from 77 on Saturday to 69 on Sunday. Watch After 3-week plateau, Covid-19 cases in India decline by 16%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-3-week-plateau-covid-19-cases-in-india-show-a-16-decline/articleshow/79598450.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 7, 2020||Noida||At UP Gate, a break before Bharat Bandh||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: On Sunday, this group of farmers took a break from protests, faceoffs with policemen and sloganeering. With the Bharat Bandh called by the protesters still two days away and talks with the government unlikely before Wednesday, the farmers from nearby districts of UP returned home to attend to crops. They, however, promised to be back at the UP Gate protest site to participate in the all-India strike called on Tuesday. While a group of farmers left for their homes, several others joined the protesters in small batches on Sunday. At various places on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, the speeches and songs attacking the three agriculture laws continued through the day. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union, which has been at the forefront of the UP Gate protest, declined to speak much about their plans for the proposed bandh. He, however, said the farmers would stop work and continue to demonstrate at the Ghazipur border. “No talks are going to be held with the government till December 9. Until now, only political parties would call Bharat Bandh. But this time, it is the farmers who have decided to do so. We will see how this is done. I don’t know what shape it would take on December 8,” he added. The protest, Tikait said, would continue. “We are here for a long haul and more people will join us. We have been telling farmers that Delhi only listens to a loud voice. We are in constant touch with our counterparts and informing them about the developments regularly. The government wants to talk on the laws, but farmers have demanded that they be withdrawn entirely,” the BKU leader said. Asked about a group of farmers returning home, Tikait said, “Sunday being a holiday, some of them have gone back to attend to urgent work. They will be back here whenever needed.” Earlier in the day, Tikait addressed the protesters and spoke about the government’s stand on the three laws. He later hopped on to an open vehicle, drove to the Ghazipur border and returned. A number of young protesters lined up to take selfies with him, which he happily gave. Meanwhile, a group of farmers was seen scribbling “Kisan Kranti Gate” on the pillars of the UP Gate flyover. They said that over the past few years, this spot has been the centre of farmers’ agitations and needed to be identified as such. Unlike in the past, a large number of protesters this time are the youth. They are at the forefront of every sort of management and are among the most vocal ones. They have been helping run the community kitchens, prepare the food and also shout slogans against the government. Like other days, the police deployment remained tight at the spot on Sunday. As a group of farmers had blocked the Delhi-Saharanpur border on Saturday for some time, cops in large numbers were deployed in Loni and other parts of the district as well. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “The situation at the protest site is calm. We have been talking to their leaders and trying to remove the blockade.” At the other protest site in Chilla, the farmers continued with their agitation. The Chilla border has been completely sealed since Saturday after a group of farmers blocked the lanes for traffic from Delhi to Noida. The other carriageways are already blocked. Traffic towards Delhi was diverted to the DND flyway and Kalindi Kunj. “They are continuing their agitation. We have been continuously updating information on traffic on Twitter,” said Ganesh Saha, the DCP (traffic) in Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/at-up-gate-a-break-before-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79598779.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 7, 2020||Ghaziabad||At UP Gate, a break before Bharat Bandh||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: On Sunday, this group of farmers took a break from protests, faceoffs with policemen and sloganeering. With the Bharat Bandh called by the protesters still two days away and talks with the government unlikely before Wednesday, the farmers from nearby districts of UP returned home to attend to crops. They, however, promised to be back at the UP Gate protest site to participate in the all-India strike called on Tuesday. While a group of farmers left for their homes, several others joined the protesters in small batches on Sunday. At various places on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, the speeches and songs attacking the three agriculture laws continued through the day. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union, which has been at the forefront of the UP Gate protest, declined to speak much about their plans for the proposed bandh. He, however, said the farmers would stop work and continue to demonstrate at the Ghazipur border. “No talks are going to be held with the government till December 9. Until now, only political parties would call Bharat Bandh. But this time, it is the farmers who have decided to do so. We will see how this is done. I don’t know what shape it would take on December 8,” he added. The protest, Tikait said, would continue. “We are here for a long haul and more people will join us. We have been telling farmers that Delhi only listens to a loud voice. We are in constant touch with our counterparts and informing them about the developments regularly. The government wants to talk on the laws, but farmers have demanded that they be withdrawn entirely,” the BKU leader said. Asked about a group of farmers returning home, Tikait said, “Sunday being a holiday, some of them have gone back to attend to urgent work. They will be back here whenever needed.” Earlier in the day, Tikait addressed the protesters and spoke about the government’s stand on the three laws. He later hopped on to an open vehicle, drove to the Ghazipur border and returned. A number of young protesters lined up to take selfies with him, which he happily gave. Meanwhile, a group of farmers was seen scribbling “Kisan Kranti Gate” on the pillars of the UP Gate flyover. They said that over the past few years, this spot has been the centre of farmers’ agitations and needed to be identified as such. Unlike in the past, a large number of protesters this time are the youth. They are at the forefront of every sort of management and are among the most vocal ones. They have been helping run the community kitchens, prepare the food and also shout slogans against the government. Like other days, the police deployment remained tight at the spot on Sunday. As a group of farmers had blocked the Delhi-Saharanpur border on Saturday for some time, cops in large numbers were deployed in Loni and other parts of the district as well. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “The situation at the protest site is calm. We have been talking to their leaders and trying to remove the blockade.” At the other protest site in Chilla, the farmers continued with their agitation. The Chilla border has been completely sealed since Saturday after a group of farmers blocked the lanes for traffic from Delhi to Noida. The other carriageways are already blocked. Traffic towards Delhi was diverted to the DND flyway and Kalindi Kunj. “They are continuing their agitation. We have been continuously updating information on traffic on Twitter,” said Ganesh Saha, the DCP (traffic) in Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/at-up-gate-a-break-before-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79600093.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
December 7, 2020||India||Covid-19: India pins hopes on 4 vaccines to inoculate 30 crore by July||NEW DELHI: The government is expecting two vaccines against Covid-19 — Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — to be available by January and around four vaccines by the end of April, increasing the prospects of adequate supplies to inoculate some 30 crore priority population by July, an official said. While Covishield, according to a PTI report late on Sunday evening, sought emergency approval, Covaxin is expected to be approved for emergency use by the end of January or early February, if the shots clear scrutiny. The drugs regulator and the government are also examining Pfizer’s application for emergency authorisation and may give the go-ahead but are keen to understand how many shots can be supplied to boost India’s priority vaccination programme. Read AlsoSerum Institute seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in IndiaThe Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public atApart from these three, Russia’s Sputnik V is also likely to be rolled out by April. “We are expecting that by April, there will be at least four vaccines in India. So, there should be enough vaccines available to cover the priority group by June-July,” a senior official told TOI. Pfizer, which has already got emergency use authorisation in the UK, Bahrain and several other countries for its vaccine candidate, has also applied in India. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC), headed by Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, and the subject expert committee (SEC) under the Central Drugs Control Organisation will review the application over the next few days. Read AlsoCovid-19: Active caseload falls below 4 lakh in countryIndia's coronavirus infections rose to 96.77 lakh, while the active caseload fell below 4 lakh and the recoveries surged to 91.39 lakh, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 96,77,203 with 32,981 new infections being reported in a day,Sources said while the government is positive on Pfizer’s application, NEGVAC is more keen on vaccines candidates being tested in the country. “We have vaccines that are being developed on comparatively easier platforms and are being locally manufactured. This makes procurement, supply, distribution and logistics easier for us,” the official said. Coronavirus in India: Live updatesAccording to sources, the government is expecting around 40 crore doses of Covishield vaccine over five to six months.While the government will need around 60 crore doses of the two-dose vaccine to inoculate the targeted 30 crore priority population, it is likely to get adequate doses once Covaxin and Sputnik V are approved. While Bharat Biotech has started phase 3 trials in India for its locally developed vaccine candidate, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories is conducting local trials for Sputnik V. There is also Ahmedabad’s Cadila Healthcare which has a vaccine candidate against coronavirus in advanced phase of human trials in India. Watch Covid-19: 4 vaccines to inoculate 30 crore by July, expects govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-pins-hopes-on-4-vaccines-to-inoculate-30-crore-by-july/articleshow/79599223.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 7, 2020||Noida||With vet & food kiosks, Noida’s first dog park likely to be ready in 6 months||NOIDA: Dog owners in the city will soon be able to take their four-legged friends for a stroll in a park especially dedicated to them. The park, the first such space in the city, will be developed by the Noida Authority on a 2 acre plot in Sector 137 and is likely to be ready in six months. Apart from a play area, the park will have medical facilities and kiosks with dog food. “We will build a park dedicated to dogs on a 2 acre plot near Sector 137 metro station. A proposal has been floated to select a consultant. The park will be managed by the chosen consultant/contractor,” said Indu Prakash, the officer on special duty (OSD), Noida Authority. According to Prakash, the idea of developing a dog park has been there for some time as many residents had requested for such a space. Recently, the proposal got a go-ahead from Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, he said. Recently, the proposal got a go-ahead from Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari, he said.The park will have kiosks that will sell dog food and there will be a vet to check the pets for basic ailments. “While entry to the park will be free, services of the vet, dog food and medicines would be chargeable,” said Prakash. The park will have a play area, rings, balls, walkways and swings, especially for the pets. A dog trainer is also being considered, officials said. According to Prakash, Noida Authority plans to have the park ready in six months. “We do not have such a facility in the city as of now. The park will be a boon to all dog lovers and their pets, as they are mostly locked up inside apartments or individual houses,” said Arjun Kumar, a resident of Sector 55. While there are no dedicated dog parks in Noida and neighbouring Ghaziabad, Gurgaon has a dog park and a cafe in Sector 59. The park has a swimming area. It also has dog trainers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-vet-food-kiosks-noidas-first-dog-park-likely-to-be-ready-in-6-mths/articleshow/79598796.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
December 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Pay in advance, you may get 5% discount on electricity bill||GURUGRAM: The Haryana power discom has decided to offer 5% discount on tariffs for users of prepaid meters. The move, sources said, was aimed at persuading residents to pay electricity bills in advance. Currently, city residents only have the option of paying postpaid electricity bills. But as part of the smart grid project, the power department has already installed around 1 lakh smart meters in sectors 1-57 and another 2.8 lakh are likely to be set up by July next year. Prepaid meters are being seen as a way of turning around the power discom by reducing the gap between the cost of electricity supply and revenue earned in the way of timely payments. “The prepaid electricity connection will work like a mobile phone connection. According to the consumption and requirement of users, they will make paymentin advance and get supply worth that amount. Such users will get 5% discount on payments. They can also track their daily consumption through the DHBVN mobile app,” an official said. Officials claimed that in case of prepayments, the carrying cost will come down, leading to reduced requirement of working capital for discoms. As of now, the lowest tariff for domestic users is Rs 2 per unit for up to 50 units. The tariff for 51-150 units is Rs 2.5 per unit while the rate for 151-250 units is Rs 5.25. For 251-500 units, it is Rs 6.3 per unit while it is Rs 7.1 per unit for consumers in the range of 501-800 units. Apart from those being covered by the smart grid project, users of postpaid connections can switch to prepaid by simply making a small application for it. Besides the sectors 1-57, where smart meters are being installed, others parts of the city can also switch to the prepaid facility. Prepaid billing had started for consumers in both domestic and non-domestic categories (institutional or commercial) with a load capacity of up to 20KW. For the past few months, residents had been complaining about inflated bills after the installation of smart meters, with many claiming to have received more than double the amount than what they had paid for the corresponding period last year. Officials said the prepaid meters were also aimed at addressing the issue of inflated bills. “Smart meters allow the electricity department to monitor, gather and process real-time electricity data. It will help the department employees sitting at the centre to access live information on power outages and manage the supply needs of a locality,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pay-in-advance-you-may-get-5-discount-on-electricity-bill/articleshow/79598280.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Gurgaon||After long wait, Ardee City residents pool money to build roads||GURUGRAM: After running from pillar to post for the past eight years to get better roads, residents of Ardee City have finally decided to take up the job themselves. As the colony was developed two decades ago, the internal roads of the colony are in urgent need of repair, the residents said. Residents have contributed around Rs 10,000 each and have initiated the construction of road in D block of the colony, which would cost around Rs 7.5 lakh. Parveen Yadav, RWA president said, “The builder has not been maintaining the colony for years. For the last two years we have been collecting funds and paying the staff for housekeeping services. With deteriorating condition of the internal roads, we are left with no option but to pool funds and hire a contractor to recarpet the roads in the colony.” Reiterating their demand to transfer the colony to MCG, Yadav said, “MCG taking over the colony is only solution, however, things are not moving forward. We have been following the matter with the authorities and have even met the DG DTCP and handed over a letter signed by 1,500 residents last year but the situation remains the same.” They pointed out that several accidents had been reported in the past due to dilapidated condition of internal roads of the colony. “Huge potholes have come up and led to accidents in the colony. Even senior citizens have fallen in these potholes and injured themselves grievously and during the monsoon season the situation becomes worse. This small effort of residents, besides making these lanes safe for use, will greatly help counter dust pollution, which is a need of the hour,” said Chaitali Mandhotra, a RWA member. Meanwhile, the developer of Ardee City maintained that they are not aware about the matter. “We have laid the road twice as per the agreement. Now it is the matter of maintenance and repair of road which we are unable to do as we are not getting maintenance charges from the residents,” said Anil Hasija, senior vice president, Ardee Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/after-long-wait-ardee-city-residents-pool-money-to-build-roads/articleshow/79598324.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Three men pose as CIA officers, dupe Gurugram businessman of Rs 50,000||GURUGRAM: Three men pretending to be CIA officers allegedly duped a businessman and took away Rs 50,000 from his godown early on Sunday. According to the victim, Amarjeet, he was sleeping in his godown when three men approached him in a Swift Dzire car. “They called out my name and said they had come from the agency’s ‘Bilaspur branch’. They said they had got information regarding presence of drugs in the godown,” said Amarjeet in his statement to the police. He added that the trio ransacked the entire place by turning the mattresses and opening all the doors. Amarjeet had around Rs 70,000 cash inside the godown and the three men took away Rs 50,000 asking him to follow them to the Bilaspur police station. “As soon as they stepped out of the godown, they got into their car and fled the spot,” said the victim in his complaint. Amarjeet then called the police control room and informed them about the incident. A team of policemen reached the spot and recorded a statement. An FIR was registered under sections 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 379 (punishment for theft) and 420 (fraud) of the IPC. “We have registered a case according to the complaint filed by the victim and are currently investigating the matter,” said a police officer. Police said they are trying to identify the three impostors and track their vehicle using CCTV cameras installed in the nearby areas. There have been similar cases in the city, wherein impostors disguised as policemen have duped people of money. In December last year, two Iranian nationals posed as cops and robbed money from two Turkmenistani nationals in city. The crime took place outside Fortis Hospital. They were later arrested from Lajpat Nagar in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/three-men-pose-as-cia-officers-dupe-gurgaon-businessman-of-rs-50k/articleshow/79598526.cms||---
December 7, 2020||India||CBI lodges fresh FIR against Unitech and its directors||NEW DELHI: The CBI has booked Unitech MD Sanjay Chandra, his father Ramesh Chandra and brother Ajay Chandra for allegedly cheating a public sector bank of Rs 198 crores. The FIR in the case was lodged on December 1 under IPC sections of cheating, criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy apart from sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, officials said. On Friday, Sanjay Chandra was given interim bail of four weeks by a court on health grounds. The CBI in its FIR stated that it had received a complaint from the Canara Bank on November 18 after which an enquiry was initiated and later a regular case was registered. It has been alleged that Unitech had been granted credit facilities under different banking arrangements through which it availed loans against personal and corporate guarantee apart from mortgaged properties. However, the firm, allegedly sold the properties without informing the bank and diverted and misappropriated funds as well. The FIR alleges that bank owed Rs 198.09 crore as outstanding liability in form of open cash credit (OCC) and bank guarantees (BG) till May 28 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-lodges-fresh-fir-against-unitech-and-its-directors/articleshow/79595778.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||NRI with Gujarat roots to guard Australia’s sky||PALANPUR: It is one of the unsung and unheard village of Aravalli’s Modasa taluka. But Tachukada Pahadpur has suddenly come in limelight. This nondescript village of north Gujarat is wearing a festive look after a youth having roots in this village has become guardian of the sky in Australia. Locals are celebrating promotion of 21-year-old Indo-Australian Vraj Patel as a fighter pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), the aerial warfare branch of the Australian Defence Forces. Vraj is son of Vimal Patel, a physics and maths teacher, who migrated to Australia two decades ago. “My grandson had scored 97% marks in class 12 and went on to join Royal Australian Air Force,” a thrilled Natu Patel, a biology lab assistant at Sarvodaya school of Pahadpur village in Modasa taluka, told TOI. “My son and his family are settled in Australia for the past 19 years. We are all proud that my grandson is now a distinguished fighter pilot,” said Patel, whose PhD holder son served as a teacher at Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Sardar Patel University before migrating to Australia. Kin say his hard work paid offAfter scoring 97 % in class 12, Vraj Patel had joined the ground academy officers training school in Australia. “It was his hard work and dedication that was noticed by his higher ups. After he got selected in RAAF, Vraj continued working hard and just yesterday got appointed as pilot officer of fighter aircraft,” said another close relative of the family. Since the news of Vraj’s promotion has spread in this remote village, the villagers are exchanging sweets while congratulatory messages are constantly pouring in the Patel family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nri-with-gujarat-roots-to-guard-australias-sky/articleshow/79600137.cms||---
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Missing man cremated as family makes rounds of police station||MUMBAI: A missing Mira Road resident's body was tagged as unidentified and cremated even as his family made rounds of the police station looking for him. Glenn Pereira (63) went missing from his home in Srishti Complex on Sept 20. The next day, cops from Kashimira police station found a body in the locality, tagged it as unidentified and sent it to Tembha Government Hospital, Bhayander. On Oct 1, Glenn's wife Rita (67) filed a missing complaint with the Kashimira police. Rita, who has a catering business, told them that her husband had an "alcohol problem" and stayed away from home for days. She told the police she approached them because she did not hear from Glenn for 10 days and could not reach his cellphone. The police told her and son Keegan to look for Glenn at civic and government hospitals. "My mother visited all hospital morgues, but was told no person or body matching my father's description had been registered," said Glenn's daughter Eurika Gomes. She said the Kashimira police did not inform them about the unidentified body that was found in the Srishti Complex area on Sept 21. As the Pereira family continued their search for Glenn, Keegan, who lives in Khar, moved to his parental home in October to help look for his father, and went around in Mira Road pasting photographs of his father. The family said they made at least two rounds of the police station every week and visited almost all municipal and government hospitals in Mumbai, Thane and Palghar, hoping to find Glenn. Activist Abraham Mathai, who intervened in the matter, said that had the family not met Mira-Bhayander & Vasai-Virar police commissioner Sadanand Date on Dec 4, the case would have simply become yet another unsolved mystery. Ultimately, On Saturday, Rita was called to the police station and the picture of a body shown. The police told her the body had been tagged as unidentified and a cremation was performed on Oct 13. "Between Sept 21 and Oct 13, we had made numerous trips to the police station but were never told about the body. We had attached dad's photograph to the missing complaint and it wasn't difficult to match it with the body," said Eurika. Senior inspector Sanjay Hazare of Kashimira police station said the family filed the missing complaint 11 days late and had given an old photograph of Glenn. "The photograph and identification given by the family did not match with the data (of unidentified bodies across police stations) stored in our computer. Had it matched, the computer would have shown up (the result)," said Hazare. Family members said Glenn and Rita had invested over Rs 8 lakh in Mallika multi-state credit society in Mira Road, which allegedly cheated people of crores, and Glenn was upset about losing the money. Hazare said that his body did not have any suspicious marks. He said an autopsy report is awaited to ascertain the cause of death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-missing-man-cremated-as-family-makes-rounds-of-police-station/articleshow/79600148.cms||Sandhya Nair
December 7, 2020||India||Bajrang Dal heckles inter-faith couple, cops arrest ‘groom’, kin||BAREILLY: A woman, 22, and a Muslim man, 24, who had been living together for the last five months and had come to a court in Moradabad’s Kant town to get their marriage registered, were heckled and hauled to a nearby police station by Bajrang Dal men who also told her that UP’s new ‘love jihad’ law was brought for “women like her”. A day after the incident, the man, Rashid, and his brother were booked on Sunday under the new law and sent to jail. Police have turned down the request to share a copy of FIR, saying it will be “available soon”. The woman, all this while, kept on asserting that she was an adult and married. In one of the videos recorded at Kanth police station, she can be seen showing a copy of the ‘nikahnama’, suggesting that she was already converted and married according to Muslim customs. The woman was also seen showing a copy of an advertisement in a newspaper as evidence that she had also changed her name in keeping with official rules. Read AlsoLucknow cops stop interfaith wedding just before ritualsThe police intervened in the wedding of chemistry postgraduate Raina Gupta (22) and pharmacist Mohammad Asif (24) on the basis of information provided by the district Hindu Mahasabha chief. No FIR was lodged as both families agreed to postpone the wedding .The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, nullifies a marriage if it is done for religious conversion. But it is not likely to apply retrospectively — in cases where the religious conversion took place before the law came into force. Senior police officers refused to comment on it. They said that the FIR against the man and his brother was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s mother on Sunday. “We have registered the case on the basis of a complaint filed by the woman’s mother, and also after an initial probe. It is not final. If we get something new, we will act accordingly,” said Vidya Sagar Mishra, additional SP (rural). “The FIR is registered under section 3 and 5 of the anti-conversion law. The woman’s statement will soon be recorded in court. She is kept at Nari Niketan so that no one influences her,” the police officer said. Read AlsoUP to scrap 44-yr-old scheme that rewards interfaith marriageThe Uttar Pradesh govt is planning to withdraw a scheme that has incentivised interfaith marriage for 44 years. The Intercaste &amp; Interfaith Marriage Incentive Scheme has been in place since 1976, initiated by the national integration department in the state. In UP, 11 interfaith couples wereRajesh Kumar, Bajrang Dal leader, said, “We came to know that a man from another community has come with a woman for conversion and registration of marriage. We followed them and informed police for taking action as per new law.” The woman, unperturbed by the Bajrang Dal men, had told mediapersons on Saturday evening that she got married to Rashid on July 24 in Dehradun. Read AlsoFive interfaith couples tell their storyHindu-Muslim couples in Uttar Pradesh vindicated by Allahabad HC verdict, but wary of state interventionBut she was constantly being shouted down by the men in saffron. “Show us the permission you have from the district magistrate to convert your religion,” one of the men told the woman. While another member of the outfit said, “‘Iska to keval nikah hua hai (She has only been married according to Muslim customs).” In another video, a Bajrang Dal member was seen snatching a set of files that the woman was handing over to a lady constable. But the constable was quick to take it back and slam the man. Station house officer (SHO) of Kanth police station, Ajay Gautam, told TOI, “We have acted on the complaint given by the girl’s mother.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bajrang-dal-heckles-inter-faith-couple-cops-arrest-groom-kin/articleshow/79598653.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai cylinder blast: Resident says he warned cook, others twice about gas odour||MUMBAI: The cylinder blast that shook Sarabhai building in Lalbaug on Sunday could have been averted, said a resident. Mahesh Nerurkar (62), a resident, had cautioned the cook working in the room where the blast occurred in the morning, but his advise was not heeded. Nerurkar, who lives on the third floor, said that when he was climbing down the stairs, he smelt a strong gas odour emanating from the room on the second floor. As the smell was around even when he was climbing back up, he said he again pointed it out. "When I climbed down the second floor while on my way to the market, I smelt a strong gas odour coming from the room. I cautioned those present immediately. As I could smell the odour even after returning from the market, I again pointed it out to them. I am surprised how those in the room could not smell the odour," he said. Nerurkar said that within minutes of his returning to his rooms, he heard the blast. He sustained a minor injury on his hand on rushing out to see what had happened. Prashant and Asmi Sarang, a couple living next to the room where the blast took place, woke up with the blast. They opened the door and the flames damaged their belongings. "The blast was so strong that a person who was in the room was thrown out and into the opposite room," Asmi said. Prashant said he asked his wife and their son to leave the building and he started dousing the fire in his room. "As soon as I doused the minor fire inside my room, I took five to seven residents from the floor, including a few injured ones, to the ground floor," he said. Subhash Andhari (73) from the first floor said his son Roshan sustained a burn injury and was in KEM Hospital. "Roshan used to sleep in one of the rooms on the second floor as it was empty. He opened the door after the blast and was injured by the flames," he said. Dilip Khatu, president of the proposed Sarabhai housing society, said residents were shifted to a hotel by corporator Anil Kokil, but after BEST restored power, Mhada allowed all residents except those from the four most-affected rooms on the second floor to return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-cylinder-blast-resident-says-he-warned-cook-others-twice-about-gas-odour/articleshow/79600165.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 7, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor receives rape threats online, cops track suspect||MUMBAI: The Oshiwara police recently registered a case against a Hyderabad-based MBA student for threatening Pakistan-born British actor Salma Agha's daughter, actor Zara Khan. The case was filed after she received rape threats on her Instagram account between October 28 and November 3. Till date, no arrest has been made. Based on the complaint, the police took help from the cyber police to track down the Internet Protocol (IP) address of the fake Instagram account holder identified as Noorah Saravar (23). The police have asked her to be present for questioning. In the complaint, the actress said she received several abusive messages on her Instagram account from someone she did not know. Oshiwara Senior inspector Dayanand Bangar told TOI, "We informed the cyber police and traced the suspect. She said the actress and her co-workers were working with a political party and had been targeting her, which made her commit the offence. We have sent her a notice to appear before the police." The officer added that they were yet to find out Saravar's motive behind the messages. Khan, an actor and singer, has worked in several Bollywood movies, including 'Aurangzeb', and 'Desi Kattey'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-actor-receives-rape-threats-online-cops-track-suspect/articleshow/79600177.cms||V Narayan
December 7, 2020||Ahmedabad||Twin blast: 9 sets of siblings join MBBS courses in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The medical colleges of Gujarat have seen not one or two but nine ‘judwaa jodis’ making entry for MBBS studies this year. For twin brothers Pinkesh Bapodariya and Prince Bapodariya, as well as for their parents, it was a dream come true. While Pinkesh has got admission in Surat Medical College after scoring 630 marks in NEET exams, his brother Prince has got admission at GMERS Medical College, Patan. For their proud father Jayesh Bapodariya, the going hasn’t been easy though. A diamond polisher in Surat, he had to sell family jewellery to pay for their coaching class fees to crack NEET exams. With a monthly income of about Rs 10,000 Bapodariya says he had to borrow from friends and relatives to pay the Rs 3 lakh fees for securing his son’s admission in the medical college at Patan. The twins completed their schooling from Jeevan Bharati Education School, Surat. “Prince wanted to become a software engineer. I told him to choose a career in medicine looking at his excellent academic performance in the past. The other son always wanted to be a doctor,” said the father of the twins. The number of twins getting entry in medical colleges together has risen in the last few years. About two years ago, there were barely a couple of such cases. Last year seven twins had secured admission in medical colleges in Gujarat. Like these twin brothers, the twin sisters Krina Dobariya (NEET score: 631 marks) and Kenvi Dobariya (NEET score: 574 marks) have got admission in MBBS studies at Pandit Dindayal Upadhyay Medical College, Rajkot and GMERS Medical College, Gotri. Their father Sanjay Dobariya, a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctor could not be more proud. “I missed making it to MBBS course by a few marks. My twin daughters have fulfilled my dream,” he said. The two sisters, who went to Rajkot’s Premier School, constantly supported each other in their studies. “My sister is very clever and has a better grasping power than me. She can memorize rather quickly,” said Kenvi. Take the case of Janvi Mithapara and Janki Mithapara who hail from Gondal. While Janki (Neet score: 516 marks) bagged a medical seat at GMERS Medical College at Vadnagar, Janvi (NEET score: 563 marks) has got admission in M P Shah Government Medical College at Jamnagar. The sisters have not attended any coaching class or taken tuitions. Instead they relied on each other to solve problems for cracking NEET. Their father, Sailesh Mithapara is a diamond polisher who says he is determined to make his daughters complete their study and pursue postgraduation, even if it meant putting in extra hours of work for him. Sailesh Mithapara, who has four children in all, said he took a loan for paying his daughter fees for Vadnagar medical college. For Jayesh Khatra, a labour contractor from a humble background, his daughter Devanshi (NEET score: 523 marks) was always brighter than her twin brother Devansh (NEET score: 500 marks). But his joy knew no bounds he says when they both made it to medical colleges. Devanshi has got admission in GCS Medical College while Devansh has secured admission in K Shah Medical College and Research Centre, Ahmedabad. Their father says he is looking to get benefit from some government schemes to fund his twin children’s college education. Rahil Talati took admission at NHL Municipal Medical College despite scoring 641 marks which made him eligible to get entry into government-run medical colleges. But he chose NHL for this is where his twin brother Rushil (NEET score: 570 marks) had bagged a medical seat. Similar to the Talati twins, Divya Prajapati, with a NEET score of 536 marks and Disha Prajapati, with a score of 529 marks, have secured admission in the same college – GMERS Medical College, Himmatnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/9-judwaa-jodis-take-mbbs-admission-in-gujarat/articleshow/79607590.cms||Bharat Yagnik
December 7, 2020||Gurgaon||Farmers from Gwalior on way to Delhi block NH-19||GURUGRAM: Traffic from Palwal to Delhi and Agra remained disrupted for several hours on Sunday morning after about 300 farmers from Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh blocked NH-19. The farmers, protesting against the three agriculture laws, were on their way to Delhi in tractor-trolleys but police stopped them at the KGP-KMP Chowk. The fact that a group of farmers from Rajasthan and MP was already protesting there only added to the chaos. Stopped from moving ahead, the protesters removed the barricades and jostled with cops. They then resorted to blocking the national highway. This prompted the cops to put another row of barricades on NH-19 and divert traffic via Hodal and Hathin. The Haryana cops also sealed the borders in Punhana and Firozepur-Jhirka in Nuh district after they got information that a group of farmers from Rajasthan were coming. Commuters have been among the worst sufferers of the agitations. Thousands of vehicles were stranded on the Delhi-Agra NH-2 for almost 20 hours since Friday night after Haryana Police blocked its border with UP at Mathura’s Kotwan due to a similar protest in Palwal and Hodal. The border was opened on Saturday evening. On Sunday, a group of 30 farmers from Palwal were detained near Badhkal Chowk after they tried to force their way to Delhi. They were released after nearly two hours. However, the farmers, led by Bharatiya Kisan Union national secretary Ratan Singh Sorot, decided to stay put at Badhkal Chowk and again try to move towards Delhi on Monday morning. Malvinder Singh, a farmer leader from Madhya Pradesh, said they had brought along ration to stay here for months. “Either the government agrees to our requests or we will keep protesting. We reached Palwal via Mathura from Gwalior and will move towards Delhi now. More than a thousand farmers are coming from different parts of MP through this route and will join us the day after tomorrow in Delhi,” he said. “We also want that the farmers who have been jailed during the protests be freed immediately. The government should lend an ear to all our demands and address them soon. Until that happens, we will continue our protest. This time, the farmers will not go home until the government withdraws the three laws,” he added. The group of farmers that had already been protesting on the KGP-KMP Chowk had not blocked any road. It was the group from Gwalior that stalled traffic when they were stopped from moving ahead. “The farmers at the chowk came on to the highway and blocked traffic for hours. Our officers have been holding talks with them to vacate the highway area. The traffic from Delhi to Agra had to be diverted,” a senior police officer said. A team of Haryana Police has been deployed on the Rajasthan border in Sunahera village of Punhana subdivision. “Some farmers were to come to Sunehra. Following instructions from a senior official, a heavy police force has been deployed here. The border is being monitored,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/farmers-from-gwalior-on-way-to-delhi-block-nh-19/articleshow/79598228.cms||---
