December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Nurses oppose draft bill, seek removal of some categories||BENGALURU: Nurses’ associations in Karnataka have raised objections to the Centre’s draft National Nursing, Midwifery Commission (NNMC) Bill, 2020 and demanded that categories like ‘nursing assistant’, ‘midwifery associate’ and ‘home-based care personnel’ be excluded from its abmit as they are not equivalent to nurses. December 6 was the last date to file objections to the draft legislation, and the Trained Nurses Association of India, Karnataka chapter, has sent them. Karnataka is among the states with a large number of nursing colleges; at least 50,000 nurses come out of 1,200 institutions per year. Girijamba Devi, general secretary, Trained Nurses’ Association, Karnataka chapter, said the draft bill has led to various concerns. “A midwife is a nurse, but not a midwifery associate. Similarly, a nursing assistant can’t be called nurse. If the bill continues to have such terms, it misleads the public,” she added. “By coining these terms, we are afraid the system may end up having cheap labourers hired as nurses. A qualified nurse who deserves a better salary package will not be recruited. This can only dilute the profession,” another nurse told TOI. These candidates have lower qualification than current nursing levels and bring down the quality of healthcare, nurses said, adding that creating the said cadres of nursing personnel creates confusion and they must be removed. The association members also say the draft bill doesn’t mention the salary package for Indian nurses. “While we are battling in the Supreme Court for a fixed salary of Rs 20,000 in the beginning of a nurse’s career, the draft is silent over the issue. Nurses are working for less than Rs 10,000 in many places,” the nurses said. The draft bill has seen objections from across the country, including the All India Government Nurses Federation (AIGNF). “While drafting the bill, the ministry of health and family welfare should have listened to and taken the views of all stakeholders. Nearly 95% of nurses work in clinical, public health domain and their view should not be overlooked in the process of drafting the bill. A few nursing educators can’t decide the future of the whole profession in India,” say AIGNF members. The federation in its letter of objections mentions that the patient’s welfare and steady growth of the nursing profession are missing in the draft. Though AIGNF is a big stakeholder in the nursing profession, no member was included in the committee for drafting the bill, federation members say. The nurses added that the proposed National Nursing and Midwifery Commission, which will have no election for its members, will be totally controlled by central government nominees. “No elected members and no representation from clinical nurses and public health nurses means no democracy,” the nurses said, adding it must have elected members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nurses-oppose-draft-bill-seek-removal-of-some-categories/articleshow/79613703.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 8, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada panchayat rewards informants who catch those dumping garbage||MANGALURU: Inspired by a recent Kodagu incident in which tourists were made to travel 80km and clear up the garbage they had carelessly thrown on the highway, Uppinangady gram panchayat in Dakshina Kannada district has announced cash reward for informants who identify people dumping the garbage. According to the campaign launched a week ago, an informant is rewarded Rs 500 if the video clip leads to action against the offender. The reward doubles to Rs 1,000 if the informant catches the offenders red-handed along with video proof. In one week, an informant has been rewarded Rs 500. Panchayat development officer Wilfred Lawrence Rodrigues told TOI that miscreants from neighbouring panchayats dump waste in Uppinangady limits despite extensive measures to segregate it. Also, the panchayat has decided to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on vehicles and Rs 2,000 on individuals caught dumping muck. “Our panchayat has identified 11 such spots on the Mangaluru-Bengaluru highway and a few interior places. We’ve noticed that poultry waste is dumped unscientifically. To encourage local participation in the cleanliness drive, we’ve decided to reward the informants,” he said. The panchayat, with a population of 11,000, has a solid and liquid resource management plant and collects one tonne each of wet and dry waste every day. It earns revenue-selling manure and slurry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-panchayat-rewards-informants-who-catch-those-dumping-garbage/articleshow/79613713.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: BJP MLC seeks probe into Akshaya Patra Foundation||BENGALURU: BJP MLC Lahar Singh Siroya requested the high court to order an inquiry into alleged irregularities at the Akshaya Patra Foundation. In his letter to the high court chief justice, Singh cited several media reports in support of his request. “Since it (APF) is a public trust, which receives public donations and government funds, I thought it was my duty to humbly request you to take cognisance of the news items and institute suitable action. As you are aware, APF is an agency that helps many state governments, including that of Karnataka, in running the midday meal welfare scheme for schoolchildren,” read the letter to chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka. Singh said he wrote to the APF chairman on November 23 to step aside and ensure an independent inquiry after consulting the chief justice of India and Karnataka CJ, but there was no response to the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-mlc-seeks-probe-into-akshaya-patra-foundation/articleshow/79613717.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Three men float fake IT companies to procure laptops on rent, sell them||BENGALURU: A three-member gang that procured laptops on rent in the name of fake companies and resorted to distress sale landed in the custody of Ulsoor police. As many as 96 laptops worth Rs 45 lakh have been seized from Saif Pasha of Kammanahalli, Moheenuddin Qureshi of Veerannapalya and Prateek Nagarkar of Hennur Bande. Another suspect, Ashwaq, is on the run. They cheated half-a-dozen laptop rental firms in the city. Similar offences were committed in Hyderabad also, said additional commissioner (east) S Murugan. The gang took advantage of the laptop rental market, which boomed post the Covid-19 lockdown after work-from-home became the new normal. “A lot of players got into rental business as hundreds of companies shifted operations from offices to employees’ residences. The gang floated fake IT companies and started contacting rental firms that were in a rush to bag contracts,” a police officer said. “After procuring laptops on rent, they would announce a distress sale on social media platforms, claiming they are disposing of assets as their firm has run into trouble due to the pandemic outbreak. Complaints have been filed against them at Madiwala, Sampigehalli, Ashokanagar, RT Nagar, Marathahalli and JP Nagar police stations,” deputy commissioner of police (east) SD Sharanappa said. They used to take office premises on rent without paying advance. “They would issue post-dated blank cheques to owners and buy time claiming they’re establishing a startup and would pay later. Before the building owner deposited the cheque to the bank, the gang would have procured laptops. Rental companies did not suspect foul play by the IT firms and readily gave laptops on rent, hoping to collect cash later,” the officer added. The fraud came into light when a team headed by inspector Venkatachalapati GN caught Saif near Bagmane Tech Park on November 23 when he came to deliver laptops to customers. Police initially took up a case of theft as they thought Saif was in possession of stolen gadgets. Saif had also tried to mislead cops, claiming he got them from his friend Moheenuddin and that he was only delivering them to the addresses given to him. Police then picked up Moheenuddin and recovered more laptops. Hyderabad police have arrested other members of the gang and Saif was named as an accused in that case also. They have taken Saif into custody now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-men-float-fake-it-companies-to-procure-laptops-on-rent-sell-them/articleshow/79613716.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Computer science top pick among CET takers||BENGALURU: This year’s choices for engineering in the Common Entrance Test (CET) seat allotment haven’t thrown up any surprises. Computer science in RV College of Engineering saw the highest cutoff (rank 98) in general merit when the first-round allotment list was released. It was followed by information science and electronics as the most sought-after subjects. The cutoff rank was 244 for information science and 416 for electronics at RVCE, which continues to be the top choice for engineering aspirants. “Computer science remains the favourite because of the immediate job prospects. The maximum recruitments on campus are done by IT and IT-related companies. Even colleges are selected based on companies that visit the campus and not education. However, there are many who later realise it’s not the subject they are passionate about,” said Ali Khwaja of Banjara Academy. The trend remained the same in other top colleges too. At BMS College of engineering, the cutoff rank for computer science is 588 and for information science 894. At MS Ramaiah Institute of Technology, it’s 604 and 941, respectively. At PES University, the cutoff rank is 587 for computer science and 1580 for electronics. University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, proposed to be upgraded to IIT level, had a cutoff rank of 1835 for computer science, 4203 for electronics and 3188 for information science. New-age courses in top colleges saw high cutoff ranks. For instance, it’s 727 for artificial intelligence course at BMS College, 4536 at Dayanand Sagar University and 4814 at Bangalore Institute of Technology. In the first-round allotment list for medical and dental courses that was released earlier, the cutoff rank at Bangalore Medical College and Research Centre for general merit was 3857. In Mysore Medical College, it was 7011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/computer-science-top-pick-among-cet-takers/articleshow/79613733.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC asks govt to clarify if it’s part of Cauvery Calling||BENGALURU: The high court asked the state government to clarify by Wednesday if it is involved in the Cauvery Calling project. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said the state government should either say it is their project or mention if any sponsors are involved or not. It said the main grievance of the PIL is that a private entity is projecting Cauvery Calling as a government project, hence the state must clear the position. During the hearing earlier, the bench asked if the government is willing to issue a public notice stating that Cauvery Calling is a project of Isha Foundation and Isha Outreach, and it has nothing to with the same. Counsel assisting the court said the project was an agro-forestry scheme proposed by the central government under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-asks-govt-to-clarify-if-its-part-of-cauvery-calling/articleshow/79613746.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Namma Metro work gains pace after BMRCL overcomes NICE land hurdles||BENGALURU: Namma Metro’s 72km Phase 2 project gained momentum after Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited resolved land acquisition issues with Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises Ltd. BMRCL officials said they achieved three milestones last month. Work on Metro’s viaduct crossing over NICE Road for Purple Line (Mysuru Road-Challaghatta) was completed on November 5. “The height of the elevated viaduct is 18m from the ground level. The length of the Metro’s span is 56m,” said BMRCL chief public relations officer BL Yashwanth Chavan. Similarly, BMRCL erected steel girders over NICE land for Yelachenahalli-Silk Institute (Anjanapura) on Green Line on November 12. Chavan said the height of the girders is 19m (from ground level) and length of the span is 53m. Separately, BMRCL along with private contractors completed the elevated viaduct over Electronics City flyover maintained by Bangalore Elevated Tollway Limited (BETL) for Metro’s Yellow Line (RV Road-Bommasandra), on November 13. According to Chavan, the 31m Metro span over the flyover is 19m above the ground. Chavan said several challenges are involved in constructing Metro viaducts above flyovers. “The major ones are height and traffic management. Also, time is limited as work happens only at night,” he said. A NICE spokesperson said launch of girders for Purple and Green Lines has been completed. “It’s an extremely complex work involving lifting and placing tonnes of steel over an existing national highway and cross-traffic on NICE Road by two cranes in a synchronous manner, without affecting vehicular movement below,” he said. Asked about land issues with BMRCL, the spokesperson said: “Some issues have been amicably resolved and others are being worked out between Metro authorities, state government and NICE.” Metro work on Kanakapura Road, Mysuru Road, Tumakuru Road and Hosur Road had been lagging for almost three years due to delay in acquiring around four acres of NICE land. In fact, the company had approached the high court against the land acquisition. In December 2019, CM BS Yediyurappa instructed officials to deposit the amount in court and go ahead with the civic work. In June this year, BMRCL completed transfer of land from NICE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/namma-metro-work-gains-pace-after-bmrcl-overcomes-nice-land-hurdles/articleshow/79613749.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bharat Bandh today: Buses and Metro to run; cabs, autos may be scant in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The Bharat Bandh called by farmers between 11am and 3pm on Tuesday seeking repeal of recent farm laws may not affect normal life in the city. Transport services are unlikely to be hit. KSRTC and BMTC operations may not be disrupted as All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has only extended moral support to the bandh. Namma Metro will run as usual. Fuel outlets and restaurants will also remain open. However, a few autorickshaw and cab driver unions have decided to join the bandh. Banking services may be affected as several unions of bank workers have supported the farmers’ cause. The Karnataka Roadside Vendors Association has extended its support to the bandh and said they won’t work on Tuesday. HV Anantha Subbarao, general secretary of AITUC-backed KSRTC staff and workers federation, said: “We have decided to extend moral support to farmers, but we are not in a position to participate in the bandh.” Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha president Kodihalli Chandrashekar said: “About 300 farmers’ organisations will press for their various demands and observe a day-long bandh in cities and towns across the state.” Chandrashekar, who was in the national capital to back ryots’ agitation on the borders of Delhi, said the present government is making all efforts to browbeat the agitation, but farmers will not budge. Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmer, labour and Dalit groups, on Monday started an indefinite sit-in protest in the city. The Karnataka Chapter of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee (AIKSCC), a coalition of several farmer organisations, called for a six-hour bandh on Tuesday. PC Rao, president of Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, said they won’t be shutting hotels or bakeries and are not extending support to the bandh. He also said that the association won’t participate in any kind of bandh or protest in future. The move comes after the Covid-19 situation led to losses to the sector. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Congress on Monday announced that it has collected signatures of no less than 2.8 lakh farmers and workers in the state as part of its protest campaign against the state and central government amendments to farm and labour laws. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said these letters with signatures of farmers and labourers will be sent to the President of India, seeking his intervention. “It is a nationwide campaign and from Karnataka 2.8 lakh signatures on postcards and letters have been collected. We will be sending them to Delhi,” said Shivakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-and-metro-to-run-cabs-autos-may-be-scant/articleshow/79613763.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Man attending son’s engagement falls into lift shaft, dies||BENGALURU: A 65-year-old farmer, who was overseeing his elder son’s engagement on the third floor of a hotel at Doddaballapura, Bengaluru Rural district, died after he slipped into the lift shaft on Sunday. The deceased is Manjunath from Elekodigehalli. The three-floor hotel Samrudhi Grand hotel in Doddaballapura town recently started work to instal a lift. The lift shaft was dug and walls near the staircase were half razed to fix materials. However, no barricades were built around it, police said. Eyewitnesses said Manjunath fell while talking to relatives attending the engagement of his son M Darshan with a girl from Kantanakunte village. “The rituals got over by 1pm and Manjunath asked everyone to head towards the dining hall for lunch. He was standing near the lift shaft and speaking to some guests. When someone called him, he turned back but lost balance and fell down,” they added. Manjunath sustained injuries on his head, neck and chest. He was rushed to a multispecialty hospital where he died at night. The owner of the hotel has been booked for negligence, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-attending-sons-engagement-falls-into-lift-shaft-dies/articleshow/79613773.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rowdy who got salon worker murdered lands in police net||BENGALURU: Kamakshipalya police on Monday arrested rowdy Kunigal Giri in connection with the murder of Manjunath, a salon employee, on November 7. Giri nursed a grudge against Manjunath of Banashankari for speaking lightly of him, police said. Giri had asked his associates Psycho Vishwa and Lakshman to teach Manjunath a lesson. DCP (west) Sanjeev M Patil said Giri was involved in 74 cases, including murder and dacoity. Police arrested Vishwa two weeks ago. He initially told police Manjunath had borrowed money from Lakshman several months ago. As he did not return it, Lakshman assaulted Manjunath twice. Later, Manjunath started telling his friends that he would kill Lakshman soon. On hearing this, Lakshman and Vishwa abducted Manjunath on November 7 and stabbed him to death. However, probe revealed Lakshman and Vishwa told Manjunath that they’re Kunigal Giri’s men. But Manjunath ridiculed Giri and threatened to attack him. An upset Giri asked the duo to avenge Manjunath, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rowdy-who-got-salon-worker-murdered-lands-in-police-net/articleshow/79613774.cms||---
December 8, 2020||World||EU, UK leaders say conditions to seal Brexit trade deal "not there"||BRUSSELS: EU chief Ursula von der Leyen and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a joint statement on Monday that sealing a new trade deal was impossible now "due to remaining differences on critical issues". "We asked our chief negotiators to prepare an overview of the remaining differences to be discussed in person in the coming days," they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/eu-uk-leaders-say-conditions-to-seal-brexit-trade-deal-not-there/articleshow/79614004.cms||---
December 8, 2020||World||Trump to sign order giving priority access for Covid vaccines to Americans||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump will sign an executive order on Tuesday to ensure that priority access for Covid-19 vaccines procured by the US government is given to Americans, a senior administration official said on Monday. Trump, who has faced sharp criticism for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic, is eager to take credit for the speedy development and distribution of a vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-to-sign-order-giving-priority-access-for-covid-vaccines-to-americans/articleshow/79614547.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Terror plot: ISI henchman held in Dubai, 5 arrested in capital||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police's special cell has carried out an operation leading to the detention of most wanted gangster and ISI henchman Sukhmeet Pal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, in Dubai, with assistance from UAE police, top sources have told TOI. Simultaneously, the special cell arrested two Punjab-based alleged assassins — who were in the end stage of executing the killing of a right-wing leader in the capital — along with three Kashmir-based Hizbul Mujahideen operatives from east Delhi early on Monday, winding up a month-long investigation. Bhikhariwal, top sources said, was nabbed from a flat in Dubai after his location was confirmed by Delhi Police's sources deployed on ground last month. Now, the intelligence establishment at the highest level is coordinating the deportation of Bhikhariwal, who has masterminded several targeted killings this year and earlier, including the assassination of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu, who was shot dead by the two men in October. The cops said that this operation, which shows the growing cooperation between the two countries, has exposed the Pak spy agency's new plan of trying to use the Khalistan and Kashmir networks to revive extremism in Punjab and other parts of the country. In the past three years, UAE and Indian intelligence had coordinated on the arrest of AgustaWestland middleman Christian Michel and Rajiv Saxena, among others. While officials in Delhi Police remained tight-lipped on the UAE operation, they elaborated on the operation in Delhi saying they had averted a "slew of targeted killings" in the capital with these arrests. The cell had kicked off an operation in April this year after receiving inputs about targeted killings being planned and executed by the ISI through Bhikhariwal. "While these inputs were being developed, multiple teams were dispatched to Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to collect specific information with active coordination and cooperation of central intelligence agencies," said DCP (special cell) Pramod Kushwaha. Last month, police commissioner S N Shrivastava had formed a crack team to carry out the operation. The team comprised encounter specialist ACPs Lalit Mohan Negi and Hriday Bhushan and inspectors Sunil Rajain, Ravinder Joshi and Vinay Pal to execute the last phase of the operation. A few days ago, an intercepted chatter suggested that Bhikhariwal had instructed his sharpshooters to commit another targeted killing of a right-wing leader in Delhi on the instructions of ISI. Bhikhariwal had further tasked them to meet some persons from Kashmir in east Delhi near the Ramesh Park bus stand, Shakarpur. The suspects, belonging to Hizbul Mujahideen, were to hand over cash to the assassins. Cops started to look out for a car with a J&K registration number. "Accordingly, a trap was laid. Around 6.45am, two cars were spotted near the place of information. The advance team immediately moved to verify the suspects. Sensing police presence, the suspects tried to flee by firing at the police party," DCP Kushwaha said. The police party too fired in self-defence. Both sharpshooters were nabbed along with their three Kashmiri associates. "The Kashmiri men were found in possession of 2kg of fine-quality heroin and Rs 1 lakh in cash. Three sophisticated pistols of different make were recovered from the two sharpshooters. A total of 13 rounds were fired during the exchange of fire," Kushwaha added. The men from Punjab were identified as Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa, and Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bhura, while the Kashmiri suspects were identified as Shabbir Ahmed, Ayub Pathan and Riyaz Rather. Pathan is claimed to have disclosed that he was working for Hizbul Mujahideen and his handler was his cousin, Abdul Majeed Khan, who is at present based in Rawalpindi and is a senior operative of Hizbul. Khan had introduced him to a Pakistan-based operative, codenamed "Sadakat", who is handling channelling of funds to India through narco-terrorism. "Sadakat tasked them to receive a consignment of narcotics — which was sent to India through Pakistan — and deliver it to his other contacts in Punjab. They were also tasked to pay Rs 1 lakh to to the assassins," DCP Kushwaha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/terror-plot-isi-henchman-held-in-dubai-5-arrested-in-capital/articleshow/79614755.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 8, 2020||India||Supreme Court irked with government work on Central Vista amid petitions||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday expressed displeasure over the Centre going ahead with the Central Vista project despite the matter being in court and judgment reserved on pleas seeking scrapping of the plan. The court though allowed the foundation-laying programme after the government assured that no construction will be carried out without the court’s approval. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, which had on November 5 reserved its verdict on the project, took suo motu cognisance of reports that construction will start after PM Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10. But Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured that no construction work would start till the matter is adjudicated by the court. "This matter was listed suo motu in view of certain developments. After interacting with the solicitor general and when the concern of the court was expressed, on instructions, the solicitor general stated that there will be no construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s) nor demolition of any structure will be done, including further trans-location of tree(s) will be kept in abeyance, until the pronouncement of judgement in all these cases. We take that statement on record. In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on December 10," the bench said. The apex court has already reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions challenging the Centre's decision to construct a new Parliament building, central secretariat as well as office premises for ministries under the Central Vista Plan. The Central Vista redevelopment plan involves demolition of around 10 buildings, including Shastri Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, Vice-President’s House and Lok Nayak Bhavan. It is planned that a common central secretariat complex and a new Parliament building would be constructed. It envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, expected to be constructed by August 2022 when the country will celebrate 75 years of independence. The common central secretariat building is likely to be ready by 2024. The sanction of Central Vista plan has been challenged on various grounds, including that the environmental impact assessment was not done and that it was approved in a haste without seeking views from the general public and getting approval from the heritage committee. The petitioners also challenged notification of Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for changes in land use for the redevelopment plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/supreme-court-irked-with-government-work-on-central-vista-amid-petitions/articleshow/79614864.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
December 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: Day after Serum Institute of India, Bharat Bio seeks emergency nod for vaccine||NEW DELHI: Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech filed an application seeking emergency use authorisation for Covaxin on Monday, becoming the third company to seek such regulatory approval in India after Pfizer and Serum Institute of India (SII). Covaxin is the first fully locally developed vaccine candidate against Covid-19 that will be considered for emergency use authorisation in the country. The vaccine was developed from a strain of SARS-CoV-2 isolated by ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune. Bharat Biotech is conducting the largest Phase-3 clinical trials in India on 26,000 subjects across 25 sites. Currently, phase-3 clinical trials for Covaxin are ongoing in Delhi, UP, Bihar, Maharashtra, Punjab, Assam and other states. The vaccine is based on a two-dose schedule and its efficacy is determined 14 days after the second dosage. While US drug maker Pfizer has offered its vaccine, developed along with German firm BioNTech, SII has sought the approval for Covishield, which has been developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca in the UK. SII has conducted only bridging studies in India but is manufacturing the shots. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) has already started an internal review of applications submitted by SII and Pfizer, seeking emergency authorisation of their respective vaccine candidates in India. Read AlsoSerum Institute seeks emergency use authorisation for Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield in IndiaThe Serum Institute of India on Sunday became the first indigenous company to apply to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) seeking emergency use authorisation for the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine in the country citing unmet medical needs due to the pandemic and in the interest of the public atThe regulatory authority will examine the applications based on three parameters — safety, quality and efficacy — before providing its recommendations to the Subject Expert Committee (SEC). The SEC, likely to meet this week, will evaluate the suggestions and advise the drug regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), on whether emergency authorisation should be granted or not. It may also recommend conditions that may apply to companies manufacturing or marketing the vaccines in India. Usually, the recommendation from the SEC — which comprises domain experts — is accepted by the DCGI, which grants final approval. “This is a very important matter and we would not like to take a decision in a hurry. It is essential to evaluate the data for safety, efficacy and immunogenicity before we arrive at any conclusion,” an official said. The SEC will also decide whether Pfizer would need to conduct bridging studies here. “It is also possible that Pfizer gets emergency authorisation here as it has already been approved in the UK and carries on with bridging studies before it gets final approval,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-day-after-serum-institute-of-india-bharat-bio-seeks-emergency-nod-for-vaccine/articleshow/79615204.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 8, 2020||India||Amid farm fire, PM Modi says reforms needed for vikas||AGRA: PM Modi on Monday said reforms are needed for development and some laws from the past century have become a burden now. He said this while inaugurating the construction of Agra metro rail project through video conference. “Reforms are very much needed for a new order and to give new facilities. We cannot build the next century with the laws of the previous century,” he said. “Reforms should be a continuous process,” said the PM, adding that his government is carrying out ‘holistic reforms’. “Earlier, reforms used to happen in a piecemeal manner, or keeping in mind some sectors and departments,” the PM said. Modi’s statements came amid the row over farm laws meant to bring major changes in the agri-marketing sector. The PM said one of the major problems the country’s infrastructure sector faced earlier was that when new projects were announced, not much attention was given on how these would be funded. He added that his government now ensures availability of funds at the start of a new project itself. The PM said reforms carried out in the recent past have infused self-confidence in the country. “This confidence has been seen in every election in the recent past,” he said. The prime minister said that efforts are on to attract investments from all over the world to improve the country’s infrastructure. Watch Agra Metro Project: PM Narendra Modi virtually inaugurates construction work||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-farm-fire-pm-modi-says-reforms-needed-for-vikas/articleshow/79615496.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt clears Rs 1,250-crore plan for twin towers||BENGALURU: The BS Yediyurappa cabinet on Monday gave administrative approval to a Rs 1,250-crore plan to construct twin towers with government offices in Bengaluru. The complex will come up on 8.5 acres belonging to the health department at Anand Rao Circle and accommodate departments of both state and central governments. Each tower will have 50 floors. Yediyurappa had announced the project while presenting the budget for the current fiscal. He had estimated that the project would cost Rs 400 crore, but the figure approved by the cabinet on Monday is three times higher. The twin towers will be developed under a public private partnership and have a built-up area of 15 lakh square feet, out of which, 6 lakh square feet will be leased out to the central government. “We plan to complete the project in 30 months once the construction starts,” said B Guruprasad, secretary, public works department. Meanwhile, the cabinet on Monday deferred a proposal to allow round-the clock mining and transportation activities. Mining came to a standstill in 2011 after complaints of illegal extraction of iron ore in Ballari and Chitradurga districts. Mine operators have been putting pressure on the government to restart activities. In another step, the government has decided to form a cabinet sub-committee to look into proposals for opening private universities. The New Horizon University Bill, the Atria University Bill and the Acharya University Bill were placed before the cabinet. Most members held the view that there should be a comprehensive policy to give permissions for launch of private universities. The sub-committee was formed to study the issue. The cabinet approved the revised detailed project report for Upper Bhadra Project, which will cost Rs 21,473 crore. The project seeks to provide drinking water and irrigation facilities in central Karnataka districts. The government will seek funding from the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-plans-twin-towers-for-govt-offices/articleshow/79615823.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||‘Pro-corporate’ farm laws have to be revoked, tweets Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: A day before the ‘Bharat Bandh’, Congress upped the ante by dubbing the farm laws as “Adani-Ambani law” and party functionaries staging a dharna demanding that the winter session of Parliament be convened to debate the issue. Echoing farmers’ demand, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The ‘Adani-Ambani farm laws’ have to be revoked. Nothing less is acceptable.” He also announced Congress’s support for the farmers’ nationwide bandh call. Congress spokesman and Punjab unit chief Sunil Jakhar said the Modi government would be responsible for “any inconvenience” caused to the public by the bandh. “The government should not become a lobbyist for corporates. Corporatising agriculture is not acceptable. Please don’t follow America,” he said at a press conference. ‘अदानी-अंबानी कृषि क़ानून’ रद्द करने होंगे।और कुछ भी मंज़ूर नहीं!The ‘Adani-Ambani Farm Laws’ have to be revoked… https://t.co/CmOxTSnJxF— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1607319063000Congress MPs held a demonstration at Jantar Mantar holding placards saying “repeal the farm laws” and “call the winter session of Parliament”. They argued that the session was required to annul the laws as the government had failed to convince farmers agitating for over 10 days. The largest contingent at the dharna site came from Punjab led by chief minister Amarinder Singh’s wife Parneet Kaur, Ravneet Bittu, Dr Amar Singh, Manish Tewari, Jasbir Gill and was also attended by Haryana Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda among others. “The government should shed its stubbornness, respect the will of the people, repeal the farm laws and possibly bring a bill which assures MSP and local markets,” Amar Singh said. “There is a string of issues, starting with the Chinese aggression to economic recession, which have to be discussed in larger public interest,” Tewari argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pro-corporate-farm-laws-have-to-be-revoked-tweets-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/79615773.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
December 8, 2020||India||Three China government units among top 10 global arms-makers||NEW DELHI: Three Chinese state-owned entities now figure in the top 10 arms companies in the world, with a fourth also making it to the top 25. It reinforces the ongoing massive modernisation of the People’s Liberation Army as well as the rapidly-growing Chinese arms exports to countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and Algeria. The list of the 25 largest arms companies in the world, as per their annual sales, was released by leading conflict think-tank Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) on Monday. The Aviation Industry Corporation of China, China Electronics Technology Group Corporation, China North Industries Group Corporation and China South Industries Group Corporation rank 6th, 8th, 9thand 24thin the list. “The Chinese arms companies are benefiting from the military modernization programmes for the PLA,” said SIPRI, adding it had not previously included these entities in its rankings due to lack of reliable data. The US continues to dominates the list, with the top five companies being Lockheed Martin, Boeing, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon and General Dynamics. There are seven other US firms, apart from six west European, two Russian and a UAE one, in the top 25 list. Overall, sales of arms and military services by these 25 companies totaled $361 billion in 2019, 8.5% more than in 2018. While the 12 US companies notched up sales worth $220 billion, the four Chinese ones accounted for $57 billion, said SIPRI. China, which has a $180 billion defence budget this year, has been assiduously expanding its military capabilities, ranging from long-range missiles and nuclear submarines to space and electronic warfare, over the years. The PLA-Navy, for instance, is now the biggest in the world with around 350 warships and submarines. The US Navy, in contrast, has 293 warships. Simultaneously, China has systematically built its indigenous defence production, often reverse-engineering advanced military technology obtained surreptitiously. It is now the world’s fifth-largest arms exporter after the US, Russia, France and Germany. China, for instance, has become a big-time exporter of armed drones or UCAVs (unmanned combat aerial vehicles), supplying over 150 of them to 13 countries. “Chinese arms and ammunition are much cheaper. They are also much easier to acquire than from US or European companies, which impose restrictions on selling hi-tech weaponry like UCAVs to other countries,” said an Indian official. Apart from fighters, drones and AWACS, China from next onwards will supply Pakistan with eight advanced Yuan-class diesel-electric submarines, four Type-054A multi-role stealth frigates and other naval platforms and weapons under deals worth over $7 billion. China, in fact, now accounts for over 70% of the arms imported by Pakistan. India, however, continues to flounder in the domestic defence production arena. It remains stuck in the strategically-vulnerable position of being the world’s second-largest arms importer, just behind Saudi Arabia. No major proposed `Make in India’ project to manufacture fighter jets, diesel-electric submarines, light-utility helicopters, minesweepers or infantry combat vehicles has actually taken off in the last six years, as was reported by TOI earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-china-government-units-among-top-10-global-arms-makers/articleshow/79615533.cms||Rajat Pandit
December 8, 2020||India||BJP cites Congress' 2019 manifesto, says its stand on farm laws opportunistic||NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday attacked Congress and other opposition parties for protesting against the new farm laws and said their actions were opportunistic and driven by mounting desperation due to losing elections. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said Congress’ “double standards” were exposed as the party’s 2019 manifesto had clearly promised to amend the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) law. “Opposition parties have jumped into the issue but during UPA rule, they did exactly what the Modi government is doing today for reforms in the farm sector. Now that they are losing elections, they take part in any protest for the sake of their existence,” he said. Prasad said opposition parties were misleading farmers and people over agriculture sector reforms, adding that the Centre was committed to the welfare and well-being of farmers. “Our government, through laws related to agriculture sector reforms, has been finding ways to improve the lives of farmers and to make them more progressive and give more opportunities to prosper and grow,” he said. “The fact is that agriculture sector reform laws are in the best interests of our farmers,” he added. He said opposition parties were losing their relevance and getting sidelined, and were trying to create a fake narrative and try to build a false movement. “We have seen this time and again, be it at the time of pro-Section 370 protests, anti-CAA protests and protests at Shaheen Bagh,” he added. Prasad said ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Congress had promised to repeal the APMC Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-cites-congress-2019-manifesto-says-its-stand-on-farm-laws-opportunistic/articleshow/79615945.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||MHA asks states to ensure Bharat Bandh passes off peacefully||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the 'Bharat Bandh' by protesting farmers, the home ministry issued an advisory to states and Union Territories asking them to take all steps to ensure that the shutdown passes off peacefully and without any untoward incident. Sources said the advisory, sent to state chief secretaries and UT administrators, emphasised on the need for state authorities and police to make sure that all Covid-19 protocols and national guidelines are followed during the bandh. The ministry has asked the state police to ensure that law and order is maintained and that public property is not vandalised in the name of enforcing the bandh. Minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy on Monday said while political parties were free to back the Bharat Bandh democratically, there was no scope for violence. "Some political parties are conspiring to defame farmers," he alleged and appealed to farmers to shun the conspiracy being hatched for political mileage. At least 18 parties including Congress, TRS, SP, DMK, AAP and Left have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ unions. The Modi government's attempts to resolve farmers' issues relating to the recently-enacted agriculture laws have not made much headway, with farmers' unions adamant on their demand for repealing the new laws. The next round of talks between the government and farmers' leaders may take place on December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mha-asks-states-to-ensure-bharat-bandh-passes-off-peacefully/articleshow/79615983.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Band, baaja, protest: On way to wedding, grooms takes detour||BAREILLY: Wearing a crisp sherwani and decked in flowers and currency notes, Zia Ul, 26, was already running late for Ghaziabad — where the bride’s side was waiting for him on Monday — when he decided to take a detour, for the farmers’ sake. At the site of protest in UP’s Sambhal, organised by a political party, Zia Ul stood out. Protesters thronged him for selfies and thanked him for coming.  But for him, it was just a small gesture of respect towards growers who are up against the government’s three farm laws. Son of a farmer, Zia Ul supports his uncle in his business. “It is my wedding day. The date was fixed a few months ago, otherwise I would have actively participated in the protests. I urge PM Narendra Modi to understand the grievances of farmers.  They are the backbone of the nation and the new laws should be reverted for their benefit. I also request people to protest peacefully and give way to ambulances and people in need,” he said. Zia Ul, his family members and friends remained with the protesters for an hour and then left for Ghaziabad where his nikah was solemnised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/band-baaja-protest-on-way-to-wedding-grooms-takes-detour/articleshow/79615995.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 8, 2020||India||4-year-old can’t be tutored, says court, gives duo 20 years for rape||MUMBAI: Observing that a four-year-old child cannot be tutored to depose, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court convicted and sentenced two 20-year-old college students to 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment for being involved in her sexual assault. The crime was committed in 2018 when she was three. While one accused, her neighbour, sexually assaulted her, on the night of November 20, 2018, in the common passage of their building, the other, his friend, abetted the offence by keeping watch. He also touched her inappropriately. A third, a juvenile, is being tried separately. The child, her mother and uncle were among those who deposed during the trial. The child’s uncle had found the girl in the common passage with the accused and the juvenile. Refusing to grant leniency to the accused on grounds of their youth, the court said, “Logical explanation or reasoning would always be available in favour of any age and then it would be almost impossible to imprison any accused. The child of three years who used to call the accused ‘dada’ (elder brother) took disadvantage of the trust and committed rape,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4-year-old-cant-be-tutored-says-court-gives-duo-20-years-for-rape/articleshow/79616042.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 8, 2020||India||India, Nepal bypass border row, talk trade||NEW DELHI: As the two countries circumvent the contentious border issue to enhance economic cooperation, India and Nepal Monday held a meeting of the Inter-Governmental Committee on Trade, Transit and Cooperation. The commerce secretaries of India and Nepal co-chaired the meeting of the Inter-Governmental Committee (IGC) on Trade, Transit and Cooperation to Control Unauthorised Trade that was held through video conferencing. Sources said the energy secretaries are also likely to hold a virtual meeting later this week. The IGC is the apex bilateral mechanism for promotion of trade and investments between the two countries. "The meeting reviewed progress made on several notable agenda items in the sphere of trade and commerce. These included discussions on comprehensive reviews of the Treaty of Transit and the Treaty of Trade, amendments to the Rail Services Agreements, measures taken for investment promotion, constitution of Joint Business Forum, harmonisation of standards as well as synchronised development of trade infrastructure on the two sides," said the government in a statement. The two sides also discussed in detail various government-level initiatives that need to be taken in future for further enhancing trade and commercial linkages. Despite the recent strain in ties, India remains the largest trade and investment partner of Nepal both in terms of Nepali imports and Nepali exports. "In fact, India is the only trading partner of Nepal with whom Nepali exports have consistently increased in the last two to three years. The wide-ranging discussions today and the progress made in the meeting are expected to further support the expansion in economic and commercial ties between India and Nepal," added the government in its statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-nepal-bypass-border-row-talk-trade/articleshow/79616071.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||94-yr-old asks SC to declare Emergency proclamation illegal, seeks Rs 25 crore damages||NEW DELHI: More than four-and-half decades after the Emergency was imposed and rights of citizens curbed, a 94-year-old woman has approached the Supreme Court to get the 1975 proclamation declared as unconstitutional. She has also sought a Rs 25 crore compensation from the government for “illegal” attachment of family properties and seizure of valuables by the authorities during the period. The petitioner submitted in her plea that there was no justifiable ground to invoke Emergency and it was done in violation of constitutional principles and prevailing laws. "Issue an appropriate writ declaring that the proclamation of Emergency vide notification dated June 25, 1975 was wholly unconstitutional and actions pursuant to the same are illegal and unjustifiable," she said in her petition. The petition, filed through advocate Neela Gokhale, said the woman and her family members suffered as they were targeted after imposition of Emergency and their “immovable properties illegally attached and movable assets plundered” by the authorities during the period. She contended that the legal proceedings initiated against them went on till 2018 when the court finally ruled in her favour. She also sought compensation of Rs 25 crore from the government and gave a list of artefacts, gems, tusks, statutes and other items which were seized by the authorities from her husband's shops in Karol Bagh and KG Marg in Delhi during the Emergency period. Although a nine-judge SC bench in 2017 set aside the Emergency-era verdict of the apex court which had endorsed the Indira Gandhi government’s decision to suspend the right to life during Emergency, the legality of the proclamation has not been examined by the court. Correcting a ‘constitutional blunder’ by the apex court in ADM Jabalpur case, the apex court, in its 2017 right to privacy verdict, said, "The judgements rendered by all the four judges constituting the majority in ADM Jabalpur are seriously flawed... ADM Jabalpur must be and is accordingly overruled.” Referring to the 2017 verdict, petitioner Vera Sarin said the proclamation of Emergency also needed to be examined to declare the decision as unconstitutional. "The Presidential order dated June 25, 1975 is void and unconstitutional and the continuation of the same was a fraud on the Constitution. The Emergency declared under Article 352 of the Constitution was due to threat of external aggression and in as much as the Presidential order was not in furtherance of the object for which the Emergency was declared, there was no nexus between the impugned Presidential order and declaration of Emergency," she said. "The pain and trauma and untold misery suffered by the petitioner, to this date has remained unacknowledged and unaddressed. The present petition is a plea for justice and restitution of a lifetime spent in utter misery and anguish on account of the atrocities suffered by the petitioner, her deceased husband and her family," the petition said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/94-yr-old-asks-sc-to-declare-emergency-proclamation-illegal-seeks-rs-25-crore-damages/articleshow/79616079.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Bengal BJP man dies in clash with cops||A BJP supporter died in Siliguri after hundreds of party workers and policemen battled on the streets of north Bengal’s biggest city for nearly three hours on Monday. The clashes took place during BJP’s march on Uttarkanya, the state secretariat in the city. BJP politicians alleged that Ullen Roy (44) died of blows from police lathis and pellet wounds. The party has called a 12-hour bandh in north Bengal on Tuesday and demanded “President’s Rule” in the state. Bengal police officials denied that a lathi-charge was carried out or firearms used. Trinamool Congress accused BJP of using violence as “a political weapon” in the run-up to the 2021 state election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengal-bjp-man-dies-in-clash-with-cops/articleshow/79616084.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: Vaccination phase 2 to cover 60% of people||NEW DELHI: In the second phase of vaccination against Covid-19, the government plans to significantly scale up operations to cover around 80 crore people — 60% of the country’s population — in an exercise aimed at achieving herd immunity. The first phase, which will cover health and frontline workers as well as “vulnerable” sections, is expected to roll out from January and end latest by July. The second, more ambitious phase in terms of targets, could start even before the priority group has been fully covered, depending on improved availability of vaccines. The first phase could reduce mortality by 80-85% from the disease, official sources said. This is intended to cover sections of the population where prevalence of co-morbidities is higher. The age criteria for second phase is likely to be 35 and above while there will be further differentiation of vulnerable sections. According to the framework being drawn up, categories like teachers, drivers and media personnel will be considered. “Vaccination has to be a strategic exercise, particularly in a country with a large population. So, we have decided to first inoculate 30 crore people. This will cover the high risk population,” an official told TOI. “In the second phase, we are expecting a scale up in vaccine availability. As soon as that happens, we can cover 60% of the population to achieve herd immunity by breaking the chain of transmission,” he added. As applications from Covid vaccine manufacturers seeking approval for emergency use are being filed, the government’s planning for its national vaccination programme has gathered pace. In the first phase, 30 crore people will also include those in police, Army, paramilitary and municipal bodies and people above 50 years of age. The government is expecting two vaccines by the end of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-vaccination-phase-2-to-cover-60-of-people/articleshow/79616096.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 8, 2020||India||Covid-19: India records 26,208 new cases, lowest in 152 days||NEW DELHI: India’s daily Covid-19 count fell steeply on Monday, with fresh cases dipping to a 152-day low and the death toll of 389 the lowest in 158 days. There were just 26,208 new cases of the virus detected in the country, a 21% fall from Sunday’s tally of 33,231. This was the lowest number of new cases recorded in a single day since July 8, when the count was 25,641. Fresh cases dip every Monday because of lower testing and staff shortages over the weekend. The sharp fall in new cases this Monday is likely to be due to declining infections, a trend clearly visible in weekly numbers, as well as very low testing on Sunday. Just 8,01,081 tests for Covid were conducted across India on Sunday, the lowest in 10 weeks since September 27, as per the covid19india.org website. Monday’s official death toll from the virus, too, was the lowest recorded in the country since July 2, although the number was just two less than the fatalities on Sunday. Meanwhile, in the previous week (November 29-December 6), Delhi registered the steepest fall in Covid cases among states week on week. The capital recorded 25,602 fresh infections during the week, a drop of more than 11,000 from the previous week. Cases registered a net increase over the previous in just eight of the 35 states and UTs. The rest 27 states/UTs recorded a fall in the case count week on week, even as the cumulative count of cases across India fell by 16% in the week. After Delhi, Maharashtra logged the steepest fall in cases, recording 7,644 less than the previous week, followed by Rajasthan (-6,251), Haryana (-3,848) and Bengal (-2,425). All these states had seen spikes in recent weeks. Kerala recorded the highest number of new cases during the week, with an addition of 36,792 to the state’s tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-records-26208-new-cases-lowest-in-152-days/articleshow/79616111.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||Northeast states top list of Covid performers: SBI||NEW DELHI: Northeastern states have emerged at the top of the list of states which have performed the best on parameters such as Covid management, fiscal numbers and implementing centrally sponsored schemes followed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, according to a State Bank of India (SBI) ranking. “By combining the scores attained on each of the three parameters, states’ ranking showed that Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Himachal Pradesh were at the bottom. While Chhattisgarh and Bengal have fared worse in all 3 parameters, Himachal Pradesh has done well in macro management but seems to be lagging in central schemes’ implementation and Covid management. The hilly terrain of the state is holding back the recovery rate,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at SBI. The study has clubbed the northeastern states into one.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); For assessing Covid management, the study used four indicators such as gap between the actual number of cases and estimated cases, possible number of under-reporting of cases, recovery rate and death rate. The results show that the northeast states top the list followed by Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. While Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh are at the bottom.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); For macro indicators, the deviation of GST collection from state budget estimates, market borrowing and CPI (consumer price index) inflation were analysed. Under this category the northeast, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh performed better.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/northeast-states-top-list-of-covid-performers-sbi/articleshow/79616121.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Vyapam scam: 126 more charged||BHOPAL: The CBI has filed the final supplementary chargesheet against 126 people in Vyapam’s premedical test-2009 scam pertaining to bogus admissions in Gwalior’s Gaja Raja Medical College. Non-bailable arrest warrants have been issued against 10 people. Among those chargesheeted are 35 candidates, 26 impersonators, 17 parents and guardians, and 48 middlemen. CBI went through the database of 16 lakh candidates who had appeared for the medical examination that year and verified their photographs. The central agency had taken over this case in compliance with Supreme Court directives of five years ago. The chargesheet was filed before special judge Anil Namdev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vyapam-scam-126-more-charged/articleshow/79616127.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||HC stays OIL work at Dibru-Saikhowa||GUWAHATI: The Gauhati HC on Monday issued a stay on exploration and drilling by Oil India Limited (OIL) at seven hydrocarbon project sites within Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, citing non-compliance with the Supreme Court’s order to conduct a biodiversity impact assessment study, reports Mukut Das. In an affidavit filed on November 17, the state forest department said OIL hadn't carried out any impact assessment study for extended drilling of seven oil wells in an ecologically fragile zone, which includes the site of the Baghjan blowout that was capped recently. The PSU assured the court that it wouldn’t start drilling operations without completing the recommended study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-stays-oil-work-at-dibru-saikhowa/articleshow/79616168.cms||Mukut Das
December 8, 2020||Business||Korean Kia, China-owned MG crack Indian market with SUVs||CHENNAI: Are the new SUV warriors Kia and MG disrupting the pecking order in Motown? October and November festival sales have changed the rankings in the passenger vehicle (PV) industry. While the top two — Maruti and Hyundai — remain the same, Tata Motors is back at No.3 and Kia is at No.4, and Mahindra & Mahindra is at No.5. The bottom 5 are Renault, Honda, Toyota, MG and Ford, thus introducing two newcomers Kia and MG into the top 10. The entry of Kia and MG shows that it is possible to crack the Indian market without a single sedan or compact car in the portfolio. Take Kia, which got into the top-5 PV ranking within months of its launch. After the rollout in the last week of August 2019, it entered the top-4 list last in January 2020 with 15,450 units of sales. It became the No.3 PV company with 15,644 and 8,583 units of sales in February and March. But it is in October and November that Kia hit an all-time high of 21,021 and 21,022 units respectively, earning the South Korean auto company a firm position in the top-5 PV pecking order. Kia sold a total of 88,610 units in April-November this year. “Kia Motors entered the Indian market and became the 4th highest selling manufacturer in the first month itself and has had an uninterrupted position among the top-5 carmakers in India over the last six months. With nearly 1,74,000 units cumulatively sold since August 2019, and consistent market leadership position in both mid-SUV and compact SUV segments, it’s the outcome of giving Indian customers aspirational lifestyle products,” said Kia Motors India executive director & chief sales officer Tae-Jin Park. Ditto for MG, which is focusing only on premium SUVs to begin with. “We only have plans for SUVs in phase-1 of operations. Our strategy has been to focus on technology, diversity and good experience of dealers and customers. We are not aiming for volumes. We want to fill the Halol plant production in phase-1, which has approximately 80,000-1,00,000 units capacity and would require overall Rs 4,000 crore of investment in India, out of which Rs 3,000 crore has already been invested. We should reach that peak capacity by 2022,” said MG Motor India president & MD Rajeev Chaba. MG Motor sold 18,128 units in the April-November 2020 period, including 4,163 units in November. According to auto expert Hormazd Sorabjee, the success of Kia and MG shows that “you don’t need to be in the budget car market” to be a hit. The reason why these brands cracked the market, he added, is because of the style and feature loads their products come with. “Tech features, gizmos and gadgets, good styling, a modern look and feel and the right price — that’s the combo,” he said. What has also helped Kia is the success of fellow Korean brand and sister company Hyundai. “Hyundai’s success in India has definitely helped Kia,” said Sorabjee. The Kia Seltos shares the same architecture as the Hyundai Creta, and the Kia Sonet and Hyundai Venue share the same platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/korean-kia-china-owned-mg-crack-indian-market-with-suvs/articleshow/79614290.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 8, 2020||Meerut||City waste: NGT asks its panel to look for 'remedial action', raps civic body for delay||Intro: Asks Oversight Committee To Look Into Remedial Action Of Waste Dumping Near Gawri Village MEERUT: In a landmark judgment, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Oversight Committee to look into the remedial action of waste dumping by Meerut municipal corporation and asked the UP chief secretary to replicate the model throughout the state. It also asked the Meerut civic body to pay a fine of Rs 24 lakh to UP Pollution Control Board as damages for the neglect it showed in clearing the garbage, leading to several deaths and diseases in the area. Much to the embarrassment of Meerut's civic body, the NGT had roped in several agencies as watchdogs to ensure that the district municipal corporation live up to its promise it repeatedly made to the tribunal to clean the huge garbage dump near a village adjacent to the Kali river. The strongly worded order came in September after photographs of a garbage dump site punched several holes in the civic body's claim that "all is cleaned". The oversight committee is headed by Justice SVS Rathore, former judge of Allahabad high court. The case pertains to the city's one of the biggest garbage dump, located in Gawri village and adjacent to the highly polluted Kali river. For years, the municipal authorities kept dumping waste on the site blatantly, betraying the trust of villagers who were promised state-of-the-art waste treatment plants and development of the area. On the contrary, 22 deaths were reported from the region because of various infections and more than 200 people are suffering from various diseases. This was mentioned in a petition filed against the corporation in August last year by local activists Naveen Kumar and Akash Kumar. In the Friday order uploaded on Monday, the three-judge bench observed, “The issue for consideration is the remedial action against unscientific dumping of solid waste in village Gawri on the bank of river Kali, in Meerut district, creating health hazard. It is also alleged that 22 deaths have taken place and 200 people have taken ill.” “UPPCB (UP Pollution Control Board) be directed to issue a notice for realization of EC to the department of urban development and its principal secretary be directed to ensure that the said amount is deposited within a month.” Reacting to the order, petitioner Naveen Pradhan said, “The municipal corporation has the habit of delaying things and that’s why it was repeatedly reprimanded, and even now, the NGT has mentioned slowness in the remedial action. We hope it doesn’t happen this time.” Petitioner’s lawyer Akash Vashishtha said, "As usual, NGT was tough on municipal corporation. The tribunal has asked the State Pollution Control Board to recover the environmental compensation, which is Rs 24 lakhs. The refused-derived fuel (RDF) generated in the legacy waste be sent to the Waste to Energy Plant. The NGT included the entire state under the ambit of its order. It said small plants be set up in other parts of the state, for which action may be planned and overseen by the principal secretary, urban development. A health survey may be conducted, as already directed. The state PCB may conduct further inspection. Waste segregation may be ensured following the best practices at other places. It has asked the Oversight Committee to further monitor the situation after three months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/city-waste-ngt-asks-its-panel-to-look-for-remedial-action-raps-civic-body-for-delay/articleshow/79612384.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 8, 2020||Meerut||Man, 20, kills father, 50, over dispute at dinner in Bulandshahr||MEERUT: A 20-year-old man was arrested in Bulandshahr for allegedly killing his father following an altercation during dinner at their residence on Sunday. Later, the accused walked up to the local police station and surrendered. He confessed to the crime. "The incident happened on Sunday night at Devipura locality within limits of Kotwali police station in the district when the accused, enraged over an altercation at the dinner, initially attacked his father with a stone and then with a knife inflicting fatal injury on the head," Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr SSP, said on Monday. According to sources, deceased Rashi Singh, 50, was an alcoholic and had frequent altercations in the family, including the one on Sunday night. The critically injured man was rushed to a local hospital where he was declared dead upon arrival. His body was sent for postmortem and FIR under relevant sections of murder has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-20-kills-father-50-over-dispute-at-dinner/articleshow/79612374.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||SPs told to tighten noose around liquor smugglers||BHAGALPUR: Bhagalpur range DIG Sujeet Kumar has directed the SPs of Bhagalpur, Banka and Naugachia to tighten the noose around interstate liquor smugglers and suppliers. Sharing a detailed report on the action taken against the violators of the Bihar Excise (Amendment) Act, which prohibits the sale and consumption of liquor in the state, the DIG told this reporter on Monday, “Altogether 6,843 cases have been registered and 8,788 people arrested in Bhagalpur, Banka and Naugachia police districts so far.” Expressing satisfaction over the action against bootleggers, Sujeet said, “While 3,776 cases were registered in Bhagalpur district and 4,951 people nabbed for violating the Bihar Excise (Amendment) Act, nearly 45,588 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 54,641 litres of country liquor were seized by police.” He added, “As many as 2,265 cases were registered and 2,920 violators arrested in Banka district. Almost 30,782 litres of IMFL and 21,026 litres of country liquor were also recovered. Similarly, 802 cases were registered and 917 people held in Naugachia police district. Besides, about 30,635 litres of IMFL and 5,535 litres of country liquor were seized.” The DIG also urged social activists to inform police about liquor smuggling, transportation and supply network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sps-told-to-tighten-noose-around-liquor-smugglers/articleshow/79612643.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 8, 2020||Meerut||Hundreds of SP workers & leaders arrested across UP during its Kisan Yatra||Meerut/Agra/Pilibhit: Hundreds of Samajwadi Party workers and leaders, including its chief Akhilesh Yadav, were on Monday either arrested or detained as they hit the streets across Uttar Pradesh against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Yadav was detained in the morning while heading to Kannauj from Lucknow to lead the party’s Kisan Yatra. Almost all the big cities and towns saw the SP workers taking out a march and jostling with policemen.In Meerut, SP leader Atul Pradhan and Rajpal Singh led the charge. Scores of SP workers were put into busses and taken to police stations where they were let off after brief detention.In Aligarh and Mathura, hundreds of party workers were arrested.Aligarh’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G said that the SP workers were arrested from various places including the party’s office before they embarked on their rally. “The arrests were preventive under section 151 of CrPC to maintain law and order in the city,” said the SSP. He added that the Rapid Action Force (RAF) was also deployed to ensure law and order in the town.Those arrested in Aligarh included former MP Bijendra Singh, former MLAs Zamirullah Khan and Zafar Aalam. Singh said, “We did not flout any norm. It was just a motorcycle rally, not a crime.”In Mainpuri, former SP MP Tej Pratap Yadav and party’s MLAs including Raj Kumar Yadav staged a protest in support of farmers’ demand.While in Agra, several party workers including district president Ram Gopal Baghel were detained in their office.Similar protests were witnessed in other western UP districts, including Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli and Bijnor where SP leaders were kept under house arrest. In Bijnor, police didn’t allow the protest march.Bijnor SP Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “We have not let SP workers and leaders take out procession. They were put under house arrest.”In Pilibhit, police detained former UP minister Riaz Ahmad at his residence. Another former minister, Hemraj Verma, along with his supporters, was taken to Neuria police station after detention.While in Firozabad, SP’s state secretary Ramsevak Yadav and district president Durgpal Singh Yadav were not allowed to leave their homes. Several leaders of Shivpal Yadav’s Pragasheel Samajwadi party and Aam Aadmi Party were also detained.Firozabad SP Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Some SP workers were detained at their homes. No one was arrested. Without any valid permission from the district administration, no protest at a public place will be allowed.”In Etah, SP workers took out bike rallies.SP president Akhilesh Yadav had announced state-wide Kisan Yatra-- on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc-- to protest the new farm laws and lend support to the farmers’ cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-of-sp-workers-leaders-arrested-across-up-during-its-kisan-yatra/articleshow/79612371.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||Phase II of eviction drive begins in Patna||PATNA: In a bid to ease traffic movement on roads, the district authorities on Monday carried out the second phase of the ‘anti-encroachment drive’ in the city. A fine of Rs 81,800 was realised from encroachers while 94 temporary and permanent illegal structures were removed during the drive. The drive took place between Station road and Buddh Marg, Patna zoo to Raja Bazaar and Kadamkuan to Thakurbari road. The maximum fine of Rs 45,600 was collected from encroachers at Kadamkuan and Thakurbari road, and five vehicles carrying construction materials were seized. Five vehicles were seized at Buddh Marg and Rs 1,000 was collected as fine. Four huts were razed near Raja Bazaar. Patna DM Kumar Ravi directed officials to monitor the encroachment-free areas to make the drive effective. He also directed Patna Municipal Corporation officials to prepare a plan to use the freed areas in such a way that people would not encroach the land in future. The DM asked traffic personnel to take strict action against commuters for illegal parking of vehicles. The second phase of the anti-encroachment drive would continue till December 14 in Patna. On Monday, divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal held a meeting with DM, city SP, traffic SP and PMC officials regarding the traffic congestion problem in the city and prepare an action plan. He directed the PMC commissioner, Himanshu Sharma, to form a zone-wise team and prepare an action plan to solve the problem of traffic congestion and encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/phase-ii-of-eviction-drive-begins-in-patna/articleshow/79612527.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||Renovated Adalatganj pond, a Rs9 crore project, likely to be ready by month-end||PATNA: Work on renovation of ‘Adalatganj Talab’ on Amarnath Road near Beerchand Patel Marg under the Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) project is likely to be completed by the end of this month. An executive engineer associated with the project said beautification work of the pond was almost complete. “The lighting work for fountain is expected to be completed by December 25. The renovated lake would be thrown open to the public on New Year,” he added. Patna divisional commissioner-cum-PSCL chairman Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the Adalatganj pond was being developed as a recreational space for public. “Finishing touches are being given and work on water fountain is underway. The new hangout place will be ready by December-end and it is likely to be inaugurated by January 2021,” he said. Agarwal said an open air amphitheatre with seating space along the pond, lights- musical fountain, fun zone, pathway, water pond, security room, food kiosks, restroom and landscaping are all parts of the project. “Ghat area and the temple plaza near the water body would be the major attraction for the people. During Chhath, the ghat can be used for offering ‘arghya’ and performing other rituals,” he added. “Decorative railings around the pond, green cover and landscaping, benches and aeration fountain in the middle of pond have enhanced the beauty of the area. A separate joggers’ track has also been made,” Agarwal said. The amphitheatre is facing the pond while the stage is adjacent to the rejuvenated water body. It will provide space to artists for the cultural events. Harshita, public relations officer of PSCL, said the work, which had slowed down during the lockdown, has now gathered pace. “Due to unavailability of construction material, the work got delayed. It was scheduled to complete by mid-August. The foundation stone for the project was laid in March 2019 by CM Nistish Kumar,” she said. The estimated cost of proposed Adalaganj pond redevelopment project is Rs 9.84 crore. The pond was dewatered and the siltation work done in June. The depth of the lake was increased by 10 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/renovated-adalatganj-pond-a-rs9-crore-project-likely-to-be-ready-by-month-end/articleshow/79612715.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 8, 2020||Patna||Sushil Modi elected to Rajya Sabha unchallenged||PATNA: Former deputy CM and senior state BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi was on Monday elected to the Rajya Sabha unopposed in a bypoll necessitated by the death of former Union minister and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder Ram Vilas Paswan. With this, Modi has become the second leader from the state after RJD chief Lalu Prasad to represent all the four Houses – Rajya Sabha, Lok Sabha, legislative council and state assembly. Modi had become MLA the first time in 1990. He was elected to the Lok Sabha in 2004 and became an MLC in 2005 after the formation of the NDA government in the state the same year. Patna divisional commissioner handed over the certificate of election to Modi in the presence of senior NDA leaders, including CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi and state BJP president Dr Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal. Modi thanked the CM for being present when he filed his nomination papers and also when he was handed over the certificate of election. Modi had filed his nomination papers in the office of the Patna divisional commissioner on December 3. The papers submitted by a relatively unknown challenger, Shyam Nandan Prasad, a retired engineer, were found to be incomplete. Prasad’s candidature was rejected on the day of scrutiny on December 5, paving way for Modi to get elected to the Rajya Sabha unopposed. Lalu, Nitish and Modi have jointly been at the centre of state’s politics for the last three decades. Lalu and Modi had joined the student politics in 1973 and also participated in Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) agitation. There are chances of Modi finding a place in the Union council of ministers or heading the GST Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-elected-to-rajya-sabha-unchallenged/articleshow/79612442.cms||Abhay Singh
December 8, 2020||Business||In a first, global m-cap hits $100 trillion||MUMBAI: For the first time ever, the total value of all the listed stocks in the world crossed $100 trillion last week on the back of major contributions from the US and Chinese markets. On December 5, the world’s market capitalisation was at $100.5 trillion, or about Rs 7,400 lakh crore, Bloomberg data showed. A large part of this rally is due to the upswing in tech stocks in the US, popularly known as FAANGM (Facebook, Apple, Amazon, Netflix, Google and Microsoft), market players said. At close of trading last week, the US had an m-cap of $41.6 trillion, while China’s was $10.7 trillion. India, with a market cap of $2.4 trillion, or about Rs 180 lakh crore, was placed 10th. On March 24, the global market cap had fallen to $61.6 trillion — a level that was not seen since 2016, Bloomberg data showed. However, a steep V-shaped recovery of almost 63% from the March low has helped global m-cap reach the milestone. Year-to-date, the value is up 15.5%, from $87 trillion at the close of 2019. The US and China have increased their market share in 2020, while all the other eight in the top 10 m-cap league have lost their shares. From 39.5% at the start of the year, the US now has a share of over 41.6% to lead the global market cap table, while China with 10.7% from 8.4% at the start, is the second-most valued. On the other hand, Japan — the country with the third-highest market cap — grew from $6.3 trillion to nearly $6.8 trillion, but its share in global m-cap slid from 7.2% to just over 6.7%. Likewise, India’s share currently is 2.4%, down marginally from 2.5% at the start of the year. Canada is the only country that increased its position in the global league table to seven from eight, replacing Saudi Arabia, thanks mainly to Saudi Aramco’s m-cap which is almost at the same level it was at the start of the year, while a rally in tech stocks lifted Canada’s market cap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/in-a-first-global-m-cap-hits-100tn/articleshow/79613304.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Surat||3,700 protesting Navsari farmers accept NHRCL’s compensation||SURAT: The last hurdle for the ambitious Ahmedabad-Mumbai bullet train project seems to have been cleared as the 3,700 farmers of Navsari district, who were opposing the project fearing destruction of their mango orchards, have accepted the compensation proposed by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHRCL) on Monday. The local administration was finding it difficult to acquire land due to farmers’ protest. The land acquisition was the slowest in Navsari district for the construction of the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train. Eight farmers of Khadsupa (Navagam) village in Gandevi taluka of Navsari on Monday received the compensation amount for the land acquired by NHRCL, the special purpose vehicle (SPV) formed for the execution of the bullet train project. They said that they are happy with the compensation offered and would like to see bullet trains running on their land. “I have got Rs 71 lakh for my 23.23 sq m (roughly one bigha) land. This is 80% of the total Rs 93lakh compensation amount. I am happy with the compensation,” Nadubhai Patel, a farmer from Khadsupa village told TOI. Navsari land acquisition officer Tushar Jani told TOI, “We have started awarding compensation to farmers for their land acquisition. On Monday, amounts were credited into eight farmers’ accounts and the process is underway for another 125 farmers. Total 3,700 farmers from 28 villages will get compensation for their land. We have deployed our teams in all 28 villages to fast-track the documentation process for awarding compensation.” Sources said that around 91 hectare land from Navsari is being acquired for the project. “We have held a series of meeting with the government officials who have agreed to provide compensation demanded by the affected farmers. We are happy that all the farmers are getting the amount they wanted for their precious agricultural land,” Vinod Desai, convener, Navsari district Bullet Train Affected Farmers Action Committee, told TOI. “It is important that the bullet train project sees the light of the day soon.” “Farmers have negotiated hard with the government using democratic processes and finally, it is a win-win situation for both,” added Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/3700-protesting-navsari-farmers-accept-nhrcls-compensation/articleshow/79612880.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||Marico looks to grow its food business at 50% YoY||Chennai: FMCG company Marico is looking to expand its footprint beyond edible and hair oil into the health food business. Currently the food business is just 5% of the company’s Rs 6,000 crore plus revenue at around Rs 350 crore. “We want to take this to 10% at least and grow 30% every year in the food space,” said Sanjay Mishra, COO India sales & CEO new business, Marico. Marico’s food business posted a 55% value growth in the second quarter led by 45% growth in Saffola Oats franchise. About 60% of the growth came from improved household penetration. “The south is one of the biggest markets for oats and in honey too the south is a very big market,” said Mishra. “Since our food business relies mostly on oats it has a strong south focus and we also have the maximum number of plants in the south — one each in TN (Perundurai) and Puducherry,” he added. Marico’s overall capex in FY21 is Rs 125-Rs 150 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/marico-looks-to-grow-its-food-business-at-30-yoy/articleshow/79614372.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 8, 2020||Patna||Bharat bandh may hit transport services||PATNA: The nationwide strike called by the farmers on Tuesday in protest against the three new farm laws passed by the Centre, is set to affect consumer services across several sectors in the state. The strike is likely to disrupt public transport as auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw, private buses and taxi unions have decided to join the Bharat Bandh call in support of farmers. It would be difficult for passengers expecting to catch flights and trains on December 8, especially people coming from other districts to Patna airport and railway station. Raj Kumar Jha, general secretary of All India Road Transport Workers Federation-Bihar said auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw, truck, bus or minibus and tractor drivers would join the strike across Bihar. “We are all children of farmers, and this fight is against anti-farmer policies. We all sympathise with farmers struggle and support their demand,” he said He added, “The Centre has implemented changes in motor vehicles act, to mint money. Now, they are targeting labourers and farmers for their gains.” Banking services may also be affected as employees and customers would find it difficult to reach the bank branches. Anirudh Kumar, general secretary of Bihar Provincial Bank Employees Association, told this newspaper on Monday that internal banking operations would not be affected due to the protest. “We are apprehending that cash transaction (deposits and withdrawals) and loan services would be badly affected due to transport obstruction and blockages on roads. The bank employees may also fail to report for duty and customers would fear to come out because of the strike,” Kumar said adding, the bank employees are not protesting, but are morally supporting the protest. As the transport services would remain off the roads, the supply of essential commodities like milk, food grains, vegetables and fruits would be affected during the Bharat Bandh. Shops in the city may also remain closed during the protest to avoid any untoward situation. Ram Lal Khetan, president of Bihar Industries Association, said businesses might get affected due to the strike as customers would avoid going out. “Shops may remain closed during the protest as several political outfits have joined the protest,” he said. People who are travelling are dreading that they may miss their train and flight due to roadblocks and non-availability of transportation. Amandeep Kumar, who is travelling to Bengaluru on Tuesday, said he tried to reschedule his booking with the airlines, but no flights were available this week. “Now, I have to catch this flight. I have to start early to reach the airport,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bharat-bandh-may-hit-transport-services/articleshow/79612350.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt bid to boost girls’ enrolment in colleges||PATNA: The state government has taken various measures to improve enrolment ratio of girl students at both graduate and postgraduate levels at different universities. The government allocated around Rs 200 crore in the 2020-21 fiscal as incentive to be given to girl students. State higher education department director Rekha Rani said about 50,000 girl students pass out from colleges in Bihar every year after completing their graduation in arts, science and commerce streams. The state government is giving Rs 25,000 as incentive to each girl after graduation, she said. Rekha said CM Nitish Kumar takes a keen interest in ameliorating the lot of girl students and improve their enrolment ratio in higher education. The ‘Kanya Uthaan Yojna’ launched by the CM earlier has proved a boon for majority of girls. Under the scheme, the state government had earlier distributed about Rs 105 crore during 2018-20 period among girl students clearing graduation from the colleges affiliated to state universities, she said. According to higher education director, there are 28 exclusive constituent colleges for girls in the state while the rest of the colleges are co-education having good number of girl students on the rolls. “Former principal secretary of state higher education department R K Mahajan and present principal secretary Sanjay Kumar have initiated several steps to give a boost to girls’ enrolment ratio in higher education field. The government has also sought details from each university regarding the number of girls studying at graduate and postgraduate levels. However, except Magadh University, other universities have not furnished details about girls’ enrolment ratio so far,” she said. Asked about fee reimbursement of each girl, Rekha said the state government has asked universities to submit details of the claims afresh. “Principal secretary Sanjay Kumar is personally monitoring the matter and holding meetings with the university representatives to expedite the reimbursement process to each university,” she added. The state government, she said, is also serious about bringing uniformity in fee structure in each university for execution of academic development plan accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-bid-to-boost-girls-enrolment-in-colleges/articleshow/79612577.cms||Kumod Verma
December 8, 2020||Patna||Opt for virtual convocations in January, universities told||PATNA: The chancellor’s secretariat on Monday directed the universities in Bihar to organize virtual convocations in the second half of January, 2021. At a review meeting held at the Raj Bhavan, the registrars of Patna University (PU), Magadh University, Veer Kunwar Singh University, Patliputra University, and Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University talked about their academic progress and the status of examinations. All universities except PU were told to complete the pending examinations so that the results are published and the next academic session starts on time. They were also asked to accelerate the process of online distribution of degrees. “Those who show slackness in awarding degrees to the students will be dealt with sternly,” the registrars were warned. The universities were directed to upload a list of subject-wise online classes to their respective websites in order to benefit a large number of students. They were also asked to ensure that students get study materials along with notes and useful links related to their academic programmes. PU exams postponed: Patna University (PU) has postponed the examinations, which were to be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, due to “some unavoidable circumstances”. “The BA, BSc, and BCom Part I examinations will now be held on December 22. On the other hand, the BEd, BLib, MLib, and PG (semesters II and IV) exams will be conducted on December 18 and 22,” PU examination controller R K Mandal said, adding that the LLB entrance test would be held on Wednesday. The venue and time of all the examinations will remain unchanged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opt-for-virtual-convocations-in-january-universities-told/articleshow/79612634.cms||B K Mishra
December 8, 2020||Patna||Got threat call from don: JD(U) MLC||PATNA: A JD(U) MLC, Gulam Rasool Balyabi, received a threat to his life allegedly from Pakistan-based underworld don Chhota Shakil’s brother on Sunday. Balyabi, a former Rajya Sabha MP, submitted a written complaint to the Kotwali police station in Patna late on Sunday, prompting the police to launch an investigation. In his complaint, the JD(U) lawmaker alleged that the caller, who introduced himself as Chhota Shakil’s brother, threatened him for having cordial relations with BJP and RSS. “Aaj kal BJP-RSS ke logon ke saath kaafi uthna-baithna ho raha hai. Wo thik nahi hai (you enjoy cordial relations with BJP-RSS people of late. This is not good for you)” an investigating officer quoting the JD(U) leader’s complaint said. According to the complaint, the caller first asked his name to ensure that he was talking to the right person and then sought to know whether he was aware of Chhota Shakil’s antecedents. Though the victim had received the call around 12.35 pm, he reported the matter to the police late at night. “We received the legislator’s complaint. The cybercrime cell is looking into it,” Deputy SP (law & order) Raj Kishore Singh said. When contacted, Balyabi refused to share any information in connection with the incident. “Contact the police to know about any progress in the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/got-threat-call-from-don-jdu-mlc/articleshow/79612549.cms||Ramashankar
December 8, 2020||Patna||Met predicts fall in minimum temperature from tomorrow||PATNA: Fog in Patna and several other places in central and south Bihar in the morning hours is likely to be denser on Tuesday and it will be followed by a plunge in night temperature from Wednesday onwards. The local meteorological centre has predicted that minimum temperature in Patna is expected to be in the range of 13-14 decrees C and maximum temperature at around 26 degrees C over the next five days. Minimum temperature in Patna on Monday was recorded at 14.4 degrees C, three notches lower than the normal. Gaya remained the coldest place in the state on Monday morning with a minimum temperature of 10.6 degrees C. “Minimum temperature remained two to three notches above normal in Patna and Purnia,” said Amit Sinha, an official at Patna Meteorological Centre. Shailendra Kumar Patel, another official at Patna Meteorological Centre, said blow of comparatively warmer south-westerly winds on Monday led to surge in humidity. The humidity in the lower level of atmosphere leads to fog or mist and also obstructs the radiation from earth’s surface to escape in the upper level of atmosphere, making the lower levels a bit warmer in the night and early morning hours. “South-westerly winds started blowing in the lower level of atmosphere from Monday morning. It is likely to lead to denser mist or fog cover in central and south Bihar on Tuesday,” Patel said. As per meteorology, foggy conditions are declared at a place if the visibility is less than 1,000 metres and humidity is higher than 90%. The visibility at Patna remained at 500 for two hours on Monday. Apart from fog, cold north-westerly winds are expected to blow from Wednesday, which will lead to plunge in minimum temperature. “Maximum or day temperature is expected to rise, while minimum or night temperature may drop after 24 hours,” Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-predicts-fall-in-minimum-temperature-from-tomorrow/articleshow/79612703.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||ICICI uses flagship app to get rivals’ customers||TNN Mumbai: ICICI Bank has opened up its flagship mobile banking app iMobile Pay to non-account holders, allowing customers of rival banks to access their accounts and transact using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform. Non-customers can also apply for ICICI Bank credit cards and loans and open a savings account using the app. ICICI Bank’s use of its app to acquire customers of other banks comes days after HDFC Bank was barred from launching new digital initiatives and from issuing credit cards to new customers by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) following repeated outages of services. Incidentally, SBI’s flagship Yono app too saw downtime last week, inconveniencing customers. “Many non-customers are keen to use iMobile and customers are tired of using multiple apps for different purposes and they really want to know if an app can take care of all banking and payments requirements,” said ICICI Bank ED Anup Bagchi, explaining the rationale for allowing the integration of other accounts. The RBI has been encouraging banks towards ‘open banking’ through the account aggregator route. Banks can choose to be part of the framework, following which third-party providers can offer customers a single view of all their bank accounts. In October, IndusInd Bank became the first to join the aggregator platform. Last month, Axis Bank was the second to join this framework. The larger banks are yet to sign up. In a way, UPI helps aggregate bank accounts as a customer can use a single bank’s app to link multiple bank accounts and use the same for transfers and payments. According to IT experts, while a third-party app can be a backup if the problem is with the main bank’s app, a problem at the data server cannot be addressed by using a different app. “This is yet another initiative that will inspire the ecosystem to integrate interoperability on digital platforms,” said NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe. “UPI is known to provide seamless, secure and convenient payment experience to its users, and we believe that the large-scale adoption of UPI will strengthen the ecosystem and help in achieving the common goal of less-cash society,” he added. Open banking is the solution that banking regulators worldwide have come up with to the problem that the ‘stickiness’ in bank accounts makes it difficult for customers to port to other accounts. The RBI had earlier mooted portability of account numbers. However, one problem was that the number of digits would get too unwieldy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-uses-flagship-app-to-get-rivals-customers/articleshow/79613064.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty scale new high||TNN Mumbai: Boosted by foreign fund buying in leading stocks from across sectors, the sensex and Nifty scaled fresh life highs and also closed at new all-time peaks on Monday. The sensex closed 347 points higher at 45,427, while the Nifty closed 97 points at 13,356 as HDFC, HUL, ICICI Bank, ITC and Reliance Industries contributed the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nifty-scale-new-high/articleshow/79613244.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||2,200 cops to keep Bhopal safe during bandh||BHOPAL: Security arrangements were strengthened in the state capital on Monday in view of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by several farmer outfits. Police teams have intensified patrolling and special checking was being conducted by Bomb Diffusion and Disposal Squad (BDDS) and dog squad. Ten special checkpoints have been set up at the entrance points of the city in Khajuri, Parwalia, Misrod, Ratibad, Sukhi Sewania, Bilkhiria, Nazirabad and others. All vehicles were only allowed inside after checking. As many as 2,200 police officials have been deployed at 110 checkpoints set up across the city to maintain law and order situation. The BDDS team and dog squad also conducted a surprise inspection at a mall in MP Nagar, Halalpur Bus Stand in Koh-e-Fiza, railway stations and other sensitive points. Financial institutions like banks, ATMS and other religious places were also inspected. ASP Zone-1 Rajat Saklecha said, “Ten outer checkpoints have been set up where checking is being conducted round the clock. Apart from that, 15 essential checkpoints have been set up at major squares. As many as 110 internal checkpoints on which fixed picket points have been set up across the city. A force of around 2,200 police officials including additional force from PHQ will be deployed .” ASP Saklecha said, “Police are in contact with farmer organisations and maintaining dialogue with them. Any vehicles carrying protesters coming from out of city will be stopped at outer check points. None of the organisations have decided any large scale protest till now. The traders organisations have informed that they will keep their shops and business open. No permission will be given for protest. If anybody tries to enforce ‘bandh’ forcefully action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-2k-cops-to-keep-city-safe-during-bandh/articleshow/79613425.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||Franklin to investors: Vote for orderly closure of funds||MUMBAI: Franklin Templeton MF on Monday warned investors in six of its debt funds, which are facing closure, that they may suffer heavy losses if they do not vote to wind up these schemes. Under the directions of the Supreme Court, the fund house has sent notices to about 3.3 lakh investors of these schemes to vote if they want closure or not. The trustees of the fund house need a simple majority to close down these six schemes. Investors in each scheme have to separately vote to decide on the fate of the scheme. On April 23, the fund house had decided to close these schemes when they were facing huge challenges in meeting redemptions from investors. The reason was that, after the nationwide lockdown in late March, liquidity in the country’s debt market had dried up and very few trades were taking place. “The trustee believes that it will be beneficial for unitholders to vote ‘Yes’ to the proposed resolution. The trustee is of the view that an orderly liquidation would maximise the value of the portfolio assets for distribution of cash to (investors) on a pro-rata basis,” a release from the fund house said. “There is a greater likelihood of realising fair value from the investments within a reasonable period of time,” it noted. “If the decision to wind up the schemes in an orderly manner is not implemented, it would precipitate a rush of redemptions, which would force a distress sale of the portfolio securities, likely resulting in a reduction in the net asset value (NAV) of the schemes and substantial losses for (investors),” it warned. In case a majority of investors decide to wind up a scheme, then they will need to again vote on who should be authorised to start the winding-up process. It could be the trustees or some other entity, which would be decided by the investors again, the release said. According to Sanjay Sapre, president of Franklin Templeton - India, the opportunity to liquidate assets at fair value will increase with time in a normal market environment. However, “an orderly winding-up does not mean a lengthy wait for return of monies”, he said. In April, when the fund house had declared a closure of these six schemes, the total assets managed by these fund managers was nearly Rs 25,900 crore from about 3.3 lakh investors. On December 3, Sapre, in an update to investors, had said that four of the six funds — low duration, ultra short bond, dynamic accrual and credit risk — together had Rs 7,226 crore ready to be distributed to investors. The other two funds — short-term income and income opportunities — had total borrowings of about Rs 367 crore, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/franklin-to-investors-vote-for-orderly-closure-of-funds/articleshow/79613164.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Fuel prices up for sixth day in a row||PATNA: Fuel prices went up for the sixth day in a row with petrol in Patna selling at Rs 86.34 per litre on Monday, up from Rs 85.9 per litre, while diesel sold at Rs 79.11 per litre against Rs 78.8 per litre. Oil marketing companies raised the prices of petrol by 38 paise and diesel by 29 paise per litre on Monday. Petrol price has increased by Rs 1.41 per litre since December 1, whereas the diesel price went up by Rs 1.3 per litre. Before December 1, fuel prices increased in nine out of the last ten days starting November 20. Ajay Kumar, manager of a fuel station at Dak Bungalow, told this newspaper that the rates have been increasing since mid-November, but in the past week, petrol and diesel prices went up by 1.6%. “The rate of diesel and petrol was never this high in 2020. It started to increase after Unlock 1.0, but it was stagnant between July and October, with little fluctuation in prices in August,” Kumar said. He added, “The sale of diesel is still 20% lower than the average while petrol consumption has started picking due to the wedding season.” Vijay Kumar, a sales executive of a filling station at Gandhi Maidan said a slight decline is seen in the sale of fuel in the past one week. “The maximum rates have increased to Rs 4-5 per litre in a fortnight. Today’s petrol and diesel prices are so far the highest in this year,” said Anuj Kumar, a sale executive at a filling station near Buddh Marg. Public sector oil marketing companies- Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd, revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the benchmark international oil price and foreign exchange rate. Patna-based economist DM Diwakar said at a time when the crude prices are almost $45- 49 per barrel, the prices of fuel in the country is at an all-time high. “Because of the Centre's wrong policies on demonetisation, GST and lockdown without any planning, the economy has crumbled. It was 23.9% down in the first quarter current financial year, and again it has gone down by 7%, now the government is in a fix to cover up the losses, and increasing prices of fuel is one of them,” Diwakar said. “Rising prices of fuel would not only affect the commuters but also have a cascading effect on the prices of other commodities as transportation charges may also go up. In such a situation, due to continuous spike in the fuel prices, the problem of the common man is bound to increase,” said Diwakar, a former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fuel-prices-up-for-sixth-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79612607.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 8, 2020||Surat||Miscreants burn 200 trees at Udhna micro urban forest||SURAT: As many as 200 trees at the Surat’s first micro forest developed through the Miyawaki forestation method were burnt by some unidentified miscreants behind the Railway Protection Force Colony at Udhana railway station. The urban forest was being jointly developed by the Western Railway (WR) and the environmentalists, who are now demanding strict action against the culprits. A senior RPF officer at Udhana railway station told TOI, “It might have happened that someone would have burnt something inside the forest and that may have destroyed the trees. This is a heinous act to destroy a micro forest. An inquiry will be done to find the culprits.” Miyawaki forestation method has been is pioneered by Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki. In this technique, various native species of plans are planted close to each other so that the greens receive sunlight only from the top and grow upwards rather than sideways. The micro urban forest is spread on 19,000 square feet land behind the RPF colony at Udhana railway station. It was developed in remembrance of the Indian Martyrs and was named as ‘Shahid Smriti Van’. The forest has about 1,100 different species of trees including fruits, herbs, native trees such as Pipal, Drum Stick, Borsalli, Sitafal, Badam, Gulmohar, Mango etc. Viral Desai, environmentalist and textile business, who is the brain behind the micro forest told TOI, “It was very shocking. How could someone damage full-grown trees in such a manner. The miscreants literally burnt about 200 trees without any reason.” “The work on forest began in December last year and within just 10 months we were able to nurture the trees and that they were 12-feet tall and growing.” Another environmentalist, Nainesh Parekh told TOI, “Hope there will be strict vigil to prevent such incidents in the future. It takes a lot of hard work, time, commitment and money to create such forests in urban areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/miscreants-burn-200-trees-at-udhna-micro-urban-forest/articleshow/79612930.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Boost for tourists as boating resumes in Kodaikanal lake||DINDIGUL: Boating resumed in the Kodaikanal lake on Monday based on the orders of the Dindigul district administration. The lake, which is the main attraction in the hill station, was closed in March following the lockdown induced by Covid-19. Assistant collector of Kodaikanal Sivaguru Prabakaran said the decision to allow boating had been taken based on the suggestion of Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi. Officials said precautions in place for Covid-19 would be completely followed while allowing tourists at the boating club. There were not many visitors in the hill station to enjoy boating on Monday. Stakeholders hoped that more tourists would visit Kodaikanal station from the next weekend onwards. Some tourist places, which are under the control of the forest department, were also opened for tourists recently. The park located at the Vaigai dam in Theni district was also opened for visitors on Monday. As there was no prior information on the opening, there were fewer visitors. They were screened for body temperature and provided with hand sanitisers before allowing them inside. Locals have been urging the Theni district administration to open the park for the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boost-for-tourists-as-boating-resumes-in-kodaikanal-lake/articleshow/79614611.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||Gaya to miss Dalai Lama this winter||GAYA: The stakeholders of Bodh Gaya tourism business are now losing all hopes for a revival during the tourist season this year as majority of annual events of the Buddhists that witnessed participation of large number of foreign tourists in the past are likely to be cancelled owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Most awaited among the events is the visit of Tibetan Buddhist spiritual leader the Dalai Lama, who started coming to Bodh Gaya every year since 2018. Earlier, the Dalai Lama used to visit Bodh Gaya to lead the Kalchakra ceremony along with his supporters. This happened to be a great opportunity for tourism business in the heritage city. The Dalai Lama has led the Kalchakra initiation in Bodh Gaya on five occasions in December 1973, 1985 and 2003 and in January 2012 and January 2017. This year, the five-day Bodh Gaya schedule was issued earlier on the official website of the Dalai Lama, according to which the Tibetan spiritual leader was proposed to give teaching on Gyalsey Thokme Sango’s ‘Thirty-seven practices of a Bodhisattva’. However, according to the latest information available on the website, all engagements of the Dalai Lama remain postponed indefinitely owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Dalai Lama has not been appearing in public since March this year. He would, however, give live webcast teaching on ‘The Heart Sutra’ from January 5 to 7 and live webcast talk on ‘Education’ on December 15. “So far, we have not received any information regarding the Bodh Gaya visit of the Dalai Lama,” Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee (BTMC) secretary Nangzey Dorjee said. Apart from the Dalai Lama’s visit, the annual prayer schedules like Kagyu Monlam and Nigma Monlam are also likely to be cancelled. Kagyu Monlam and Nigma Monlam are the annual prayer events of Kagyu and the Nigma sects of Tibetan Buddhists. Now, the only hope for the stakeholders is the Tipitaka chanting. The Light of Buddha Dhamma Foundation organises Tipitaka chanting in Bodh Gaya every year. Monks, nuns and other devotees from Thailand, Indonesia, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Laos PDR, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and Vietnam participate in the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-to-miss-dalai-lama-this-winter/articleshow/79612624.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Night curfew now ‘till further orders’ in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The night curfew in the city has been extended from December 7 till further orders in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases. It will be in force from 9pm to 6am. A notification in this connection was issued by the city police chief Sanjay Srivastava on Monday. “People should not come out of their houses or on streets during the curfew time,” mentions the notification. The night curfew was imposed in the city on November 23. Some public utility services like petroleum, CNG and water supply, sanitation services, electricity production and transmission units, telecommunication, disaster management, central security forces, jails, and essential services of the municipal corporations have been kept out the purview of the notification. Public and private medical services, medical stores, home delivery of medicines by e-commerce sites milk distribution, electronic and print media, private security services, production of essential items, pharmaceuticals and those units who need constant production are exempted from the curfew. In case of funeral procession, only 20 persons will be given permission. Transportation of goods from railway stations and airport, passengers travelling by air or by railways and people accompanying them are also exempted from curfew on production of tickets. Taxis and radio cab services will be allowed. ATM banking, IT vendors, ATM operations and cash distribution agencies for ATM are exempted. Exemption from curfew will also be based on amendments made by Government of India and Government of Gujarat. The notification mentions that persons violating the curfew notification will be booked under Section 188 of the CrPC and Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Action against anyone violating the curfew norms can be taken by a police official of the rank of head constable and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/night-curfew-now-till-further-orders/articleshow/79614617.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||439 more test positive for corona in Bihar||PATNA: As many as 439 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bihar on Monday, taking the tally to 2,39,565. With two deaths reported from Rohtas and Banka, the state’s toll reached 1,297. Altogether 17 people from localities like Anugrah Narayan Path, P C Colony, Mainpura, Rajiv Nagar, Kachchi Talab and Vijay Nagar were admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) and eight discharged from the hospital. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that two people — a 75-year-old man from Bariyarpur in Vaishali and a 79-year-old from Town Hall Road in Munger — died at the hospital on Monday. The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital did not report any death. However, four patients were admitted and three discharged from the hospital. According to the figures of the health department, out of the 439 Covid cases, 170 were from Patna. New cases were also reported from districts like Purnea (29), Gaya (19), Muzaffarpur (18), Saran (15), Siwan (14) and Araria (13). In the last 24 hours, 679 people recovered from corona, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.31%. During the same period, 1,10,413 samples were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/439-more-test-positive-for-corona-in-state/articleshow/79612619.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||March deadline for R Block-Digha road||PATNA: If the officials of Bihar State Road Development Corporation (BSRDC) are to be believed, the first phase of R Block-Digha Road would become functional in January next year. An official of BSRDC, the executing agency of the project, said two of three flyovers on this stretch were ready and work on the third flyover was under progress. “Work on Nehru Path flyover is in progress. The Shiv Puri and Rajeev Nagar flyovers are ready,” BSRDCL managing director Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said. He added even the Nehru Path (popularly known as Bailey Road) flyover is ready and its approach road would be constructed by December 31. “The two flyovers were constructed in just 18 months,” he added. The first phase from R-Block to Digha is 6.3km-long and it will provide an alternative route to those going to Pataliputra and Rajiv Nagar from the southern part of the city. This stretch is expected to ease traffic on Boring Road and Bailey Road. The second phase will connect this road with Ganga Path. It will have a flyover and an underpass. It will pass through the rear end of Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouse. “The FCI has agreed to give land for the project,” Agarwal said, adding the second and final phase would be ready by March next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/march-deadline-for-r-block-digha-road/articleshow/79612655.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 8, 2020||Business||Veranda Learning acquires Chennai Race||Chennai: Kalpathi Group-owned Veranda Learning Solutions has acquired Chennai Race, a coaching institute for banking, SSC, and PSC exams, valuing the target at over Rs 100 crore in a stock and earn-out deal. The deal results in the launch of a new brand, Veranda Race, which will offer online training programs for banking, Staff Selection Commission and TNPSC exams. Suresh Kalpathi, CEO, Veranda Learning Solution, said he observed an alignment in Race with Veranda's own philosophy of rigour and discipline in education delivery, focus on outcomes and affordability to the real India. “The acquisition of Race will bolster our offerings and will further define our position in the sector,” he said. Veranda will be announcing its plans for other subjects / verticals soon, he added. Bharath Seeman, promotor of Chennai Race and head of Veranda Race, said the new company targets a revenue of Rs 50 crore in the first year, and by the end of 2021, their content will be available in 11 Indian languages. Veranda Race plans to launch course content in 11 Indian languages by December 2021.“We have priced our courses at Rs 7,500, which includes course materials and mentoring support,” he added. During the 2019-20 fiscal, Chennai Race recorded sales of about Rs 45 crore. The institute has trained over 2,00,000 students across TN, Kerala, Karnataka and Punjab, so far. Chennai Race says its students fill up about 60%-80% of Tamil Nadu’s vacancies in the past 4-5 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/veranda-learning-acquires-chennai-race/articleshow/79614435.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 8, 2020||Business||Tata chairman Chandra buys group cos’ stocks||TNN Mumbai: There could not be any better person who is bullish on Tata Group stocks than its chairman N Chandrasekaran. He has been increasingly buying shares of various Tata companies, signalling his confidence on the growth prospects of the group’s businesses — ranging from enterprise data to energy. Recently, the chairman bought 5 lakh shares of Tata Power for Rs 3.5 crore. The shares were bought between November 27 and December 1, BSE data revealed. Earlier, Chandrasekaran had bought shares of Tata Communications, Tata Chemicals and Tata Investment for a total consideration of Rs 6 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-chairman-chandra-buys-group-cos-stocks/articleshow/79613653.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Chamber in support of Bharat bandh||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry(TNCCI) has said that its extends its support for the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers. President of TNCCI, N Jegatheesan has said that farmers across the country have been agitating for the past 12 days demanding repeal of the Union government’s farm laws. The farmers are the backbone of our nation’s economy which is primarily agriculture-based, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chamber-in-support-of-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79614615.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||PACS in Bihar may become redundant||PATNA: Even as the farmers of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh have launched a tirade against three controversial farm laws enacted by the Centre, the central ministers continue to refer to the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in Bihar which had “freed” the farmers from the hold of the market committees 14 years ago. It was in 2006 when the Nitish government abolished the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. In sync with the same, the central ministers have been citing one of the three Acts – the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Protection and Facilitation) Act, 2020 or the FPTC(P&F) Act – pointing out that it will free the farmers from the middlemen as has happened in Bihar. Incidentally, farmers agitating under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Samiti (AIKSS) have been saying that the three farm laws passed by the Centre would destroy the farmers. After abolishing the APMC Act in 2006, the Bihar government had put in place Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS) as an agency designated for the procurement of paddy, besides strengthening it to run agricultural equipment bank or have its own storage facility. The Centre, however, has introduced the FPTC (P&F) Act by not creating any agency like PACS. It has instead introduced contract farming to be done by willing big companies on the basis of the provisions in the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. Implicitly, the company concerned would provide farmers farming services and also purchase their produce at the market rate as per the agreement. Further, under the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, the companies would be free to stock the produce without any restriction, which, in effect, will make the PACS in Bihar redundant. The middle, big and well-off farmers in Bihar used to sell their produce at the mandis and bajaar samitis at the MSP rates before 2006 by paying 1% tax to the samitis. D N Diwakar, who is associated with A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said those who sold their produce at the bazaar samitis constituted only around 6% of the total number of farmers. The remaining 94% of small and marginal farmers, as well as bataidars (sharecroppers) used to sell in the open market at prices drastically less than the MSP rates, which has continued till date. “As many as 94% of the farmers sell their produce at the farm harvest price (FHP) rates even today or resort to distress sales. The FHP is always less than the MSP and wholesale rates. The returns these farmers get on their produce are abysmally low,” Diwakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pacs-in-bihar-may-become-redundant/articleshow/79612423.cms||Abhay Singh
December 8, 2020||Patna||Bihar opposition parties to hit roads today||PATNA: All opposition parties in Bihar will hit the road in support of Bharat bandh called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Samiti on Tuesday. They will also be disrupting roadways and railway movement and will block major highways, giving tough time to commuters. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the party workers would gather at the Patna office at 9 am, after which they will march till Dak Bungalow crossings. “From state level to district, block and village levels, RJD members will be on the road in support of farmers,” Gagan said. RJD has asked its workers and leaders not to use party banners or flags in the protest march on Tuesday. State spokesman Mritunjay Tiwari said an instruction in this regard was given by RJD state president Jagdanand Singh. An appeal was made by farmers’ union asking political parties not to use their flag or banner in the bandh today. Congress has also planned a similar march and protest on Tuesday. Party spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre said all Congress workers would be on the road to express their solidarity with the farmers. “We have always been with farmers, and tomorrow also we will be coming on the road in their support. The NDA government should not take farmers lightly. They have been fooling everyone, but they cannot fool those who feed us. Our party members will stand with farmers tomorrow across the state,” said Rathorre. He criticized the state government for lodging FIRs against opposition leaders who had gathered at the Gandhi Maidan on Saturday. The three Left parties are fully prepared to hit the road and extend their support to AIKSS. CPI-ML state secretary Kunal said all three Left party workers would gather near Buddha Park and march towards Dak Bungalow. RLSP members will also march from their office to Dak Bungalow at 11 am said party’s national spokesperson Fazal Imam Mallick. AIMIM will be blocking NH-31 in north Bihar. Party’s youth wing president Adil Hasan Azad said all five MLAs along with party workers would block the road in their respective areas. Even members of Jan Adhikar Party led by Pappu Yadav will join the protests. Talking to TOI, Yadav said his party has planned for an indefinite strike from December 16 and on December 23 they will be taking out ‘Kisan mazdoor Rozgaar march from West Champaran’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-opposition-parties-to-hit-roads-today/articleshow/79612389.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 8, 2020||Surat||Deceased PSI planned to hang self, but decided to shoot herself||SURAT: Investigation into suicide of 32-year-old woman police sub-inspector (PSI) revealed that she was planning to hang herself and had prepared a noose out of her dupatta before she decided to shoot herself with her service pistol. The deceased PSI Amita Joshi had shot herself in the abdomen on Saturday afternoon at her residence in police colony in Falsawadi. The forensic team found a dupatta with a noose at on end from the room where Joshi’s body was found. Investigators are now gathering details about behavioural changes in Joshi over the past few days. Police are also investigating if Joshi had some dispute with her husband Vaibhav Vyas, a driver with the city police. Sources in the police informed that Vyas wanted Joshi to leave the job to take care of their four-year-old son. While she wanted her husband to leave job to take care of their son. As Joshi and her husband were having a hectic work schedule their son was living with his grandparents in Bhavnagar. Vyas had gone to Bhavnagar to participate in a marriage function and Joshi was alone at home where she shot herself. Police also found that Joshi was talking over phone to her husband’s sister Manisha in Bhavnagar before she shot herself. Manisha had heard a loud noise over the phone after which asked Vaibhav to check on Joshi in Surat. Joshi’s body was taken to the family’s native place in Amreli district on Sunday for cremation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/deceased-psi-planned-to-hang-self-but-decided-to-shoot-herself/articleshow/79612797.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Surat||SUDA’s town planner donates plasma for ninth time||SURAT: A 28-year-old town planner with the Surat Urban Development Authority (SUDA) donated his plasma for the ninth time on Monday. This is probably the highest number of times that a single Covid-19 recovered patient has donated plasma. Town planner Jaydeep Ravania, a resident of Varachha, has been visiting Surat Municipal Corporation-run (SMC) SMIMER Hospital every fortnight without fail since July 2020 to donate plasma. He got infected on June 26 and recovered after home isolation. “The pandemic was at its peak in the city then and plasma was in high demand for the treatment of critically ill patients. I am not a regular blood donor, but I wanted to do a bit from my side to help patients recover. It was out of compassion,” Ravani told TOI. Ravani’s brother Anil has alos been a regular plasma donor “We appreciate Ravani’s contribution for the noble cause. Plasma is being used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients at SMIMER hospital as well as in private hospitals and we urge the recovered patients to come forward for donation,’‘ Dr Ankita Shah, head of immunohematology and blood transfusion (IHBT) department at SMIMER Hospital told TOI. Till now, 815 people have donated their plasma at SMIMER Hospital’s blood bank. Surat has been leading among all the cities of Gujarat in plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sudas-town-planner-donates-plasma-for-ninth-time/articleshow/79612850.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Rajkot||Two held for poaching crane||RAJKOT: Two poachers were detained for allegedly hunting a demoiselle crane in Chharidhandh sanctuary near Nirona village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district on Sunday. The carcass of one demoiselle crane was recovered from them. According to the forest department officials, the accused, Aizaz Memon (30) and Javed Gagada (32), were detained on the basis of a tip-off. Apart from the carcass of one bird, a 12 bore gun, 24 cartridges, one knife and a cellphone were recovered from the accused. After spotting the officials, the accused tried to flee on their bike, but were caught after a chase. “We caught the accused who fell off their bike. While one of the accused received a fracture in his leg, the hand of another was fractured,” said a forest official. The accused duo was taken to GK General Hospital in Bhuj, where they are being treated under detention of the forest department. The accused levelled allegations against the forest department, accusing the officials of running them over with their four-wheeler and causing them injuries. Tushar Patel, deputy conservator of forest Kutch west division, told TOI: “The allegation of atrocity committed by the forest department on the accused are the baseless. They caught poaching two common cranes by our staff. They got injured while running to evade the arrest. We have also found arms from them and a separate offence under the Arms Act is also registered by the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-for-poaching-crane/articleshow/79611685.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Allahabad||Takeaway only option on night food joints’ menu in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj residents will no longer be able to enjoy late night trips to the roadside shops selling delectable street food between Dhobighat Crossing and Maharana Pratap Crossing as the open market will now offer only takeaway facility. The market was a regular for gastronomes and had over 100 street vendors selling a large variety of dishes. Prayagraj Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) move to restrict crowds in the night market comes in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and the need to maintain social distancing. As many of these eateries did not have any seating arrangements, customers often had to eat while standing in their parked vehicles. The market was launched under the Smart City project. Sources said that the tender was floated twice, but there were no bids. In the meantime, unauthorised roadside vendors selling fast food in localities like Civil Lines among others were removed after anti-encroachment drives by the PMC. The district administration then shifted these vendors to the night market. Around the past three months, there had been a sudden surge in the number of customers in the market, especially office-goers and youths. Come night, many of them could be spotted standing near their motorcycles and cars to enjoy the street food. However, the increase in footfall came at the cost of public safety, as these customers spared little concern for social distancing and other Covid-19 guidelines. Hence, the municipal corporation decided to switch to only takeaway service in the market. “We have seen that the shopkeepers have made it a practice to deliver food items to customers sitting in their cars or motorcycles and no one cares about following the norms despite the seriousness of the pandemic. Thus, we have decided that these shopkeepers would serve only packed food and give it to customers who would not be allowed to consume it in the market,” said additional municipal commissioner Mushir Ahmad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/takeaway-only-option-on-night-food-joints-menu-in-prayagraj/articleshow/79613560.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||Poor visibility hits flight operations at airports||PATNA: Flight operations at Darbhanga airport remained completely paralysed on Monday owing to poor visibility as all three flights of budget carrier SpiceJet were cancelled. At Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport in Patna also, the flight operations remained disrupted due to foggy conditions in the morning hours. According to sources at Patna airport, the first flight of SpiceJet (SG-8719) from Ahmedabad reached the city around 10.55am instead of 7.45am. The other five scheduled flights from Delhi, Kolkata and Bengaluru reached the airport after 11am, much beyond the schedule. “The flights were delayed due to poor visibility in Patna and Delhi,” a SpiceJet official said. According to Patna Meteorological Centre, fog reduced the visibility to merely 500 meters in the morning (between 6.30am and 9am), affecting flight operations. The minimum required visibility for landing of aircraft was achieved at 10.30am. Huge confusion ruled the day at both the airports. Rupesh Shah, a Mumbai-bound passenger from Darbhanga, said the airline informed them about the cancellation of the flight after making them stand in a queue for three hours. Chaos prevailed at Patna airport too as several incoming and outgoing flights got delayed due to poor visibility. Three flights of SpiceJet were delayed for more than three hours, while five flights – two each of GoAir and SpiceJet and one of IndiGo – were delayed by more than by an hour. Altogether 17 flights were delayed at Patna airport on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/poor-visibility-hits-flight-operations/articleshow/79612673.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Madurai airport gets mobile command post vehicle||Madurai: A mobile command post (MCP) vehicle, which will be useful during emergency situations like mishaps and flight hijacking, has been commissioned at the Madurai airport. The vehicle will act as a point where liaison officers of various cooperating agencies will assemble to plan and coordinate rescue operations. The MCP was formally commissioned into service by airport director S Senthil Valavan on Monday after a traditional puja and a flagging off ceremony. Officials said that the MCP will work as on the spot command, coordination and communication centre. It will have an array of equipment to be used during emergency situations and a compartment, which can house 11 people to sit and carryout rescue operations. The Rs 43 lakh vehicle has a GPS system, CCTV camera, smart board with projector, foldable stretcher and medical kits, digital camera, telescopic light mast, public address system, night vision binocular and power backup facility among others. Fire and rescue service department in the airport will be responsible for stationing the vehicle at the incident site in case of any emergency at the earliest possible time. Officials said that the facility will improve the safety and security of the airport. An official from the airport said that ever since a mishap took place at the Kozhikode airport in Kerala, the Airports Authority of India is taking various safety and security measures. The purchase of the vehicle is also a step to strengthen them. A few airports already have the facility. The NSC Bose International Airport in Kolkata had purchased a similar vehicle a few months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-airport-gets-mobile-command-post-vehicle/articleshow/79614626.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Edible oil prices hot up, touch Rs 130/l mark||BHOPAL: Edible oil prices are on the boil, with MRP touching as high as Rs130 per litre. “Post-lockdown, prices of all products are soaring. Edible oil is no exception. I bought mustard oil yesterday for Rs125/kg. Winter has arrived, but tomatoes are still selling for Rs50 per kg. Even the cost of samosas has gone up,” said Anant Deshpande, a student. The price of soyabean oil — one of the most consumed edible oils — has soared to Rs120 in the festive season. In pre-lockdown, soyabean oil was selling at Rs90 per litre. As per market sources, the prices are falling post Diwali in the wholesale market, but there has been little change in the rates in retail market. “Soyabean oil was priced at Rs85 per litre in wholesale market before lockdown. After Unlock, oil consumption has increased, leading to a hike in its prices. It has been always observed that prices of oil and mawa always go up. This time, it was unprecedented as the prices hit Rs110 per litre in wholesale and Rs120 per litre in retail. There have been changes in the Essential Commodities Act — and now pulses and edible oil are no more part of essential goods — has led to a hike in price of edible oil. With the stock limit of these commodities has been scrapped, big traders are resorting to hoarding,” said Anupam Agrawal, general secretary, Bhopal Kirana Vyapari Mahasangh. Mustard oil prices have also gone up to Rs125 to Rs130 per litre. The prices were even more when the Union government brought in an ordinance, thereby banning the sale of blended mustard oil. “When sale of blended mustard oil was banned and only ‘pure’ mustard oil was being sold, its prices had touched Rs135 per litre in wholesale. Now, the government has repealed the rule and prices have come down to Rs120 per litre in wholesale. It must be selling for Rs125 to Rs130 per litre in retail,” said Agrawal. “Groundnut oil is not sold in retail that much. We mainly keep packs of 15 litres and it is priced at Rs2,200 to Rs2,500,” said Akash, a retail grocery shop owner in Shivaji Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/edible-oil-prices-hot-up-touch-rs-130/l-mark/articleshow/79613456.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad corporation supplied 12,000 remdesivir vials||AHMEDABAD: Between March 23 and October 21, when the city saw its first wave of Covid cases, more than 12,712 vials of remdesivir were supplied by the central medical stores of the civic body of Ahmedabad. Some 745 life-saving tocilizumab injections were administered at AMC hospitals or supplied to private hospitals. The figures reflect the disease severity experienced in the first few months of the pandemic. These figures were obtained under the Right To Information Act (RTI) by Pankaj Bhatt, a resident of Kalupur. The RTI data shows that some 61,000 PPE kits were procured by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) central stores of which LG Hospital was supplied 30,960 kits and Shardaben Hospital 15,625 kits. “LG and Shardaben Hospital doctors were involved in field duties when the peak of Covid infections was witnessed. Covid-19 care centres including private ones were collectively supplied 11,600 PPE kits, which includes GCS Hospital which was provided 4,200 kits,” says a senior medical officer at AMC. The RTI data also reveals that each PPE kit was procured for Rs 787 while remdesivir injections were bought for Rs 2,105 per vial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-supplied-12k-remdesivir-vials/articleshow/79614643.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||IMA to protest ‘mixopathy’ changes today||AHMEDABAD: Taking part in nation-wide demonstrations against the proposed amalgamation of allopathy with ayurveda, homoeopathy and other medicinal disciplines, members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) will hold demonstrations at three spots in the city on Tuesday. Dr Mukesh Maheshwari, coordinator of the media committee of IMA Gujarat, said there will be demonstrations at the IMA headquarters on Ashram Road and two other spots from noon to 2pm, where doctors will raise awareness about the issue and demand a rollback of the ‘mixopathy’ due to the proposed amendment in the IMCC Act. “We are not against ayurveda or any other treatment procedures, but the move will dilute the essence of every discipline. It will not be in the interest of patients and thus we will be protesting against this with all Covid-19 protocols in place,” he said, adding that IMA has also called for closure of non-emergency medical services across India between 6am and 6pm on December 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ima-to-protest-mixopathy-changes-today/articleshow/79614642.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||This ‘Library on Wheels’ will take you on a literary ride||Nagpur: In times of social media and digital entertainment, two Nagpurians have decided to take the road less travelled with their “Library on Wheels”. IT professionals Likhit Agrawal and Alisha Nathani are taking their passion for reading literally to the streets, in a bid to recreate the magic of the era when libraries were a popular destination.Former classmates from Ramdeobaba College of Engineering, Likhit and Alisha strongly felt the need to engage people in a meaningful hobby in these Covid-19 times. Starting last weekend, their mobile library operates from the trunk of their car. Parked for almost four fours at a fixed spot, they offer books of all genres to anyone who loves reading.Alisha said, “There is no membership fee. We want to create awareness about reading and that’s the only reason we are doing this. Anyone who loves to read can drop in and take away a book.”Likhit said it was high time that people discovered the joy of reading. “More and more people are working from home and many are spending time on social media and other platforms. We want people to experience what it means to browse through books and read it,” said Likhit.Considering that their initiative is just a week old, Library on Wheels’ stockpile has already crossed a hundred books. “All these books are either from our own collection or donated by friends and relatives. We are expecting more books to be added as the word gets around,” said Alisha.Their first weekend saw mostly those in their early and mid-20s flocking to browse through books. “We were stationed outside a cafe and the crowd was mostly of young adults. And ‘fiction’ was the genre that got most eyeballs,” said Alisha.So while there’s no membership fee, the duo still prefers to err on the side of caution. There is a refundable deposit that is to paid by the user. “Payment can be done online or in cash. It is fully refundable once the book is returned,” said Alisha. Keeping Covid-19 guidelines in mind, the duo ensure that sanitizers are handy and books neatly laid out on a table. Likhit said, “We have noticed people bring their own sanitizer bottles and use it before touching the books. Also we ensure our masks are always on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/this-library-on-wheels-will-take-you-on-a-literary-ride/articleshow/79613423.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 8, 2020||Madurai||DMK, AIADMK cadre clash over burning of min’s effigy||Virudhunagar: Members of the DMK on Monday burnt the effigy of minister for milk and dairy development K T Rajenthra Bhalaji, protesting his remarks against DMK president M K Stalin and youth wing leader Udhyanidhi Stalin. This resulted in a clash between the DMK and AIADMK. Police had to resort to a mild lathicharge to disperse them. The minister had remarked that Stalin and Udayanidhi Stalin were corrupt. Protesting this, members of the DMK announced that they would burn the effigy of the minister in Rajapalayam. In retaliation, the AIADMK said that it would attack them. When the DMK burnt the effigy of the minister near the roundtana in the town, both groups started attacking each other. Tenkasi MP Dhanush Kumar, AIADMK town secretary Baskaran, union secretary Gurusamy among others led the protest on behalf of the DMK. Five DMK members including women’s wing town deputy secretary Ambiga, sustained injuries. More than 100 DMK members including Rajapalayam MLA Thangapandian were arrested by the police. Police also arrested more than 100 AIADMK members who protested in front of the Gandhi statue in Rajapalayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-aiadmk-cadre-clash-over-burning-of-mins-effigy/articleshow/79614623.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||PFA leader booked on extortion charges||Nagpur: Kardha police on Sunday night booked two persons, including an office-bearer of People For Animals district unit, for allegedly trying to extort Rs10 lakh from Koka wildlife sanctuary range forest officer (RFO) Sachin Jadhav after threatening to falsely implicate him in large-scale tree felling and extraction of murrum in the sanctuary in Bhandara district.Forest officials claimed one Sachin Rangari (38), Sakoli, was demanding Rs10 lakh from the RFO, Rs5 lakh from round officer and Rs3 lakh from forest guard separately for not pursuing his complaint regarding the alleged felling of 10,000 trees and extraction from murrum from inside the sanctuary compartments.Rangari is Bhandara district secretary of People For Animals (PFA). He had lodged a complaint about illegal tree felling on October 28 with PMO and other institutional heads and officials including PFA chairperson Maneka Gandhi. The accused also circulated news about his complaint in media in Gondia and Bhandara districts to mount pressure on the foresters.“Based on the complaint lodged by RFO Jadhav against Rangari with all recorded evidence, we laid a trap in Manegaon near Lakhni and caught Rahul Ganvir (33), an accomplice of Rangari, while accepting Rs50,000. He has been booked under various sections of IPC,” said Bhandara SP Vasant Jadhav. Even as police launched a search for Rangari, he surrendered before Kardha police on Monday afternoon. Both the accused were later produced before Bhandara judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), who released them on bail.“We have seized cell phones of Rangari and Ganvir for further investigation. We have procured call detail records (CDRs) of the accused,” said Dipak Wankhade, PI of Kardha police station.Rangari did not respond to TOI’s calls. Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) field director M Ramanujam welcomed the police action.Bhandara SP Jadhav said Rangari seems to be a blackmailer as earlier in June this year, he had lodged similar complaints of tree felling and extraction of murrum from Nagzira wildlife sanctuary against senior forest officials and RFO. However, a committee gave a clean chit to the forest officials.In the latest complaint to PCCF (wildlife) and others, Rangari had alleged felling of over 10,000 trees in 13 compartments and extraction of murrum from the sanctuary during the Covid lockdown. He also alleged that the timber was transported in a forest vehicle. During the last 20 days, he had approached RFO Jadhav through mediators to extort money, forest officials claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pfa-leader-booked-on-extortion-charges/articleshow/79613449.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Sisters among three drown in rivers||Madurai: Three people, including two sisters reportedly drowned in separate incidents on Monday. The sisters were identified as M Suthi, 12, and M Suji, 11, from Veerakaliamman Kovil Street near Arapalayam. They were studying in an aided school in Puttuthoppu. Police said that the girls wanted their mother to buy some stationery items. They kept on insisting despite their mother asking them to wait till their father returned home and chided them. The girls left home on Sunday afternoon and did not return. The parents launched a search. As the children could not be located, they informed the police. The Karimedu police got information that the bodies of children were found in two separate places in Vaigai river. The bodies were recovered and sent to the Government Rajaji Hospital for postmortem. A police officer said that one body was found at Arapalayam, whereas the other one was found at LIC Bridge in Sellur. It is suspected that they could have been washed away when they ventured to take bath. The flow of water has been high since water from the dam was released recently, he said. A case was registered with the Karimedu police and an inquiry was under way. In the second incident, a 37-year-old man, who ventured into Kallar river in Theni district was washed away and was later found dead. Sellaram from Thenkarai in Periyakulam, went to take bath on Sunday evening. As the water level in the river increased, he along with his five friends were washed away. While five of them were rescued by fire and rescue personnel, Sellaram could not be located. His body was found 15km away in Varaha river on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sisters-among-three-drown-in-rivers/articleshow/79614631.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Supreme Court okays power staff split; Telangana has to accept 584 workers||HYDERABAD: In a setback to Telangana power utilities, the Supreme Court (SC) on Monday said allocation of electricity employees among the two Telugu states — Telangana and Andhra Pradesh (AP) — made by the one-man Justice DM Dharmadhikari (retd) committee is final. With this, the Telangana power utilities, including Telangana Genco, Telangana Transco and discoms, have no option but accommodate 584 employees. Telangana has been paying salaries to these employees on the directions of the court for the past two years. The SC had appointed the Justice Dharmadhikari committee on November 28, 2018, to find a solution to the bifurcation issues between the two states for the past five years. However, even the committee could not resolve the issue as the AP government refused to take 655 employees allotted to the state. The Telangana employees’ unions said the allocations of 584 additional employees to the state was against the modalities fixed by the committee itself. The power utilities and employee unions of Telangana approached the SC by filing a ‘clarification petition” on which the apex court said the allotment was final. “The power utilities will obey SC verdict and accommodate them in various posts. Seniority list needs to be prepared afresh now,” Telangana Transco and Genco chairman and managing director D Prabhakar Rao told TOI. Official sources said the Telangana discoms and other utilities either have to create supernumerary posts or reverse promotions given to employees. The controversy over bifurcation of employees had been festering for the past five years. The Telangana power organisations had relieved 1,157 employees, who are natives of AP, on June 11, 2015. Some employees approached the high court against the action of the Telangana power utilities, which have been paying salaries of about Rs 15 crore a month to them without giving any work. Later, the SC appointed Justice Dharmadhikari to finalise the allocation. The committee had initially allotted 655 employees to AP and 584 to Telangana in December, 2019. Later, another 71 staff were added in the supplementary list, completing allocation in June, 2020. The Telangana government had also recalled 242 employees belonging to the state but working in AP power utilities. Claiming injustice was done to Telangana in the allocation of employees by the Dharmadhikari committee, 11 employee associations had formed Telangana State Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee (TSPEJAC) and protested. They even filed a clarification petition in the apex court. They demanded that the power utilities refuse to take the 584 employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-okays-power-staff-split-t-has-to-accept-584-workers/articleshow/79616036.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Indian gaur sighted for the first time in Dnyanganga sanctuary||Nagpur: An year after a tiger C1-T1 from Tipeshwar made Dnyanganga wildlife sanctuary its home, an Indian gaur was recently recorded for the first time in the protected area in Buldhana district.The herbivore was sighted during patrolling by the staff in Devhari beat. The male tiger from Tipeshwar was first sighted in the sanctuary on November 30, 2019.“This is the first record of a gaur in the 205 sq km Dnyanganga, which was notified as a sanctuary in 1997. In the last 2-3 years, we have completely controlled illicit sheep and goat grazing, and the results are evident,” said MS Reddy, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) & field director of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR).“Regular patrolling and better forest fire management has led to the growth of meadows inside the sanctuary. Apart from this, several welfare schemes under the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Jan Van Scheme has been implemented in villages around the sanctuary through eco-development committees (EDCs),” Reddy said.Dnyanganga already has 25 species of mammals, over 150 species of birds, 25 species of snakes, and 48 species of butterflies. The sighting of the gaur and tiger is another feather in the cap of the sanctuary. There are over 80 waterholes, and the Melghat model of check dams has been implemented in a big way.Former honorary wildlife warden of Amravati district Vishal Bansod said, “Gaurs are long-ranging animals and travel long distances. The animal must have migrated from Ambabarwa wildlife sanctuary, which is 65km from Dnyanganga as the crow flies, and now part of Melghat tiger reserve.”“It’s a good sign. Long-term survival and conservation of these huge mammals depends on the availability of preferred plant species for food,” he adds.Earlier, on May 9, an Indian gaur was sighted outside Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary for the first time. Prior to that a gaur was also recorded in Bor tiger reserve in June after a gap of six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indian-gaur-sighted-for-the-first-time-in-dnyanganga-sanctuary/articleshow/79613428.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||State govt to install CCTV in schools||Dehradun: In a move to improve security standards in schools, the Uttarakhand education department is going to install CCTV cameras across state-government run schools in the state. Final stages of the project are yet to be cleared, before the education department releases an order. Speaking to TOI, Mukul Kumar Sati, state project director of the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) said, “We are planning to install the cameras mostly in co-ed schools and hostels for the safety of students. Schools with lack of proper boundary walls will also be added. The cameras will not be installed inside classrooms or hostel rooms of students.” He further said that as per the initial plan, the CCTV cameras will be installed in nearly 528 schools and hostels of the state government, with each campus being allotted four cameras each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-govt-to-install-cctv-in-schools/articleshow/79612415.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Bharat Bandh: 3.5k cops will be deployed to keep Kolkata moving today||KOLKATA: Nearly 3,500 police personnel will be deployed in Kolkata on Tuesday to keep the city moving. The Left Front, including associated parties have called for a general strike in Bengal on December 8, in support of the Bharat Bandh call by farmer associations against the Centre’s recent farm laws. Congress had lent support to the bandh. The ruling Trinamool Congress says it supports the cause and will hold protests but will not enforce bandh. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen said: “We do oppose all anti-people, anti-worker, anti-farmer policies of the central government. But, the workers and employees of Bangla don’t support strike. Everything will be open on 8th too. Bangla fights and goes ahead with its development as well under the leadership of Mamata Banerjee.” There will be fewer private buses on city roads. The state transport department will run normal bus services on Tuesday. The officials on Monday met with private bus operators and taxi operators. Both told the government officials that plying of buses and taxis depends entirely on the bus workers and taxi drivers. If they join the duty, buses and taxis will ply as usual. The state transport undertakings (STUs) will run optimum fleet — 1,000 West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) buses. Auto operators said that they will run autos if there are enough passengers. If people decide to stay back home, what is the point of running autos, said auto operator’s union leaders. Bengal Taxi Association (BTA) assistant secretary Sanjib Roy said, “We have left it to the individual member whether to run the cab or not. However, we have received requests from certain Gurdwara to support the cause.” Only a handful of private buses are to ply on the city road. Metro and suburban railway services are expected to continue their normal operations on Tuesday. Several protests are slated for tomorrow. Senior state minister Partha Chatterjee is likely to be part of a protest meeting in Behala Manton at 3pm. Senior Left Front leaders, including the Front chairperson Biman Bose and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra will be part of a rally from Entally at 11am. Police said they will have around 400 pickets across the city. Additional police deployment will be made in the municipal markets and bus depots. Police said additional mobile patrol vans will also be deployed. “No forcible closure of shops, markets and road disruptions will be allowed,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-5k-cops-will-be-deployed-to-keep-city-moving-today/articleshow/79614633.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Wet conditions help water level in Teppakulam fill to the brim||Madurai: The scenic Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam has filled to its brim within 10 days after water released from the Vaigai river was diverted into it. With this, the water level in the tank touched its full capacity of 14 feet on Monday. An engineer from the Madurai Corporation said that water from Vaigai river was diverted to the tank through the Panaiyur channel at 9pm on November 28. “It took only 10 days to fill this time. Last time when we filled the tank from dry condition to its full capacity in December 24, 2019, it took 15 days. Wet conditions due to recent rains and healthy underground water table could be reasons for the lesser time this time,” he said.The tank measuring around 21 acres is estimated to be holding more than 35 crore litres of water. This is the second time that the tank is filled to its brim from bone dry condition since last year. An official said the tank got filled up when Ramanathapuram’s share of water was released in Vaigai two weeks ago. With the share for Sivaganga district released on Monday morning and the water expected to reach Madurai in the night, officials said that they would fill the tank again if the level comes down by a foot or two.A ward official from Teppakulam area said that storing water in the tank helps in recharging ground water level. Water-related complaints have come down in the last one year as adequate water is available in borewells, the official said. The Panaiyur channel used to carry water from Vaigai river at Albert Victor Bridge traditionally. The channel could not carry water for the past 50 years as the river’s surface level went down. Last year, corporation took measures and restored the traditional system of water flow. As a result, Teppakulam received water through Panaiyur channel in December last year, after five decades. With the level coming down by a few feet, it was filled two times subsequently in January and February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/wet-conditions-help-water-level-in-teppakulam-fill-to-the-brim/articleshow/79614635.cms||V Devanathan
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Release water along 58-canal scheme near Usilamaptti, demand farmers||Madurai: Farmers and residents of 58 villages near Usilampatti in the district have demanded the government to take steps to release water through the 58-canal scheme, to enable them to cultivate crops for the next two years and also meet their drinking water needs. Water is being now discharged from the Vaigai dam for irrigation and is flowing through the riverbed, but farmers claimed that it is going waste as the public works department (PWD) was letting it into the sea. “If they released it through the surplus 58-canal system, it would help many of the villages where no agricultural activity has been resumed yet through it is raining throughout the state,” said K Saravanan, a farmer. The 58-canal scheme was sanctioned in 1999 and implemented last year. It was called the 58-canal scheme because the canal is elevated for a distance of 28km, and then branches into two for 11km each, to fill 33 tanks in 58 villages. Each tank can irrigate 400 to 500 acres of land. The government had passed an order to release water along this channel when the Vaigai dam reached its full capacity on a special arrangement. BJP state farmers wing vice-president Muthuraman G said the government had earlier said that water would be discharged through the 58-canal scheme when the water level in Vaigai dam touched 68 feet. “They should amend it to at least 58 feet as hundreds of acres were being rendered barren due to lack of rain,” he said. “The government should come forward to provide water through this canal at least when other parts of the state have received copious rainfall,” Muthuraman said. Farmers have decided to make a representation to Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/release-water-along-58-canal-scheme-near-usilamaptti-demand-farmers/articleshow/79614629.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Brag about doctor kin results in stiffer case||AHMEDABAD: Kheda district police on Sunday booked a man for intentionally spreading a deadly disease, as he did not just come out of a containment zone in Nadiad but also bragged to the cops that he had several doctors in his family. He was first booked for violation of the police notification, but was later also booked under the stricter charge of intentionally spreading a deadly disease. The health officer of Nadiad taluka, Dr Vipul Amin, became the complainant and stated in his FIR that the accused, Madan Shah, 55, a resident of Jay Maharaj Duplex at Vaniyawaad in Nadiad town of Kheda district, kept roaming outside his residential society—which was declared a containment zone on December 3. Sources in Nadiad town police said Dr Amin was responsibility for Shah’s locality. A few days ago, cops and civic authorities in Nadiad learned that Shah was roaming outside the containment zone unnecessarily. When police sent him a notice under charges of IPC Section 188, for disobedience of the government order restricting movement, which has provisions for imprisonment of up to one month on conviction. When Shah appeared before the cops, he began bragging about how several members of his family are doctors. When a health officer told Shah he should not venture out when the coronavirus is spreading, he got into heated arguments with the officer. Police found that Shah’s son is a doctor. “When we learned that even though his son is and he knows that this deadly disease can spread rapidly, he went out and put others at risk. Due to this, he was booked under IPC Section 270 for spreading a deadly disease intentionally, which has provisions for imprisonment of up to two years if convicted,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brag-about-doctor-kin-results-in-stiffer-case/articleshow/79614644.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rajpath and Karnavati open||AHMEDABAD: Rajpath Club and Karnavati Club resumed operations on Monday. The clubs had been closed since the total curfew was imposed in Ahmedabad, after Diwali, to curb the spread of Covid-19. Both clubs will reopen their gymnasia, jogging tracks and all other sporting activities. Secretary of Rajpath Club Mishal Patel said, “The club will resume operations as usual but timings have been restricted from 6.30am to 8pm due to the night curfew imposed by the local administration in Ahmedabad.” Rajpath Club saw footfalls of about 200 persons on the first day after reopening, as did Karnavati Club. The two clubs are currently allowing entry of members based on appointments only and a given member can spend 70-80 minutes on the club premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajpath-and-karnavati-open/articleshow/79614632.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Lion pride chased by duo in car||RAJKOT: The forest department has ordered a probe into a video of travellers allegedly chasing lions in their car in Amreli district. The video of the lion pride of five being harassed has gone viral on social media. In the video, two persons in a car are themselves informing about the location of the spot during their conversation. They spotted the pride on the road near Lunsapur village of Jafrabad taluka in Amreli district. The travellers recorded this video on a mobile in which they even heard informing about the 2am time and the location near Sintex industry near the village and expressing delight at seeing the lions. In the 37 seconds video, it’s seen that they are running their car behind the lions and throwing head light towards the pride . It’s not known when this video was recorded. Deputy conservator of forest Shetrunji division, Nisha Raj, said, “We have seen the video and a probe has been ordered. Those responsible for this reckless behaviour will be caught soon.” Watch Gujarat: Lion pride allegedly harassed, Forest Department orders probe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-pride-chased-by-duo-in-car/articleshow/79612420.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Metro approaches old normal, eases e-pass rules||KOLKATA: The first signs of old normal were seen in Metro on Monday as commuters entered stations from 7am to 8.30am, and post 8pm, without e-passes. The city’s transport lifeline also inched towards its pre-pandemic timings — starting at 7am instead of 8am. The last trains left Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum stations at 9.30pm instead of 9pm. Thus, 14 more services were added to the 190 available till last week. Before Covid, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 6.45am and 9.55pm respectively. “We are slowly easing restrictions and enhancing passenger convenience,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi said. The e-passes are the key to controlling crowd at the gates of stations. They are booked in advance to access any of the 24 stations of the north-south line. In the pre-pandemic times, 6.5 lakh rode daily while 3,000 travelled at a time. Now, more than 1.1-lakh people ride every day, but only 400 are accommodated at a time. In the first hour of the morning, the footfall was only 4,000. “It will pick up as more people learn about the extended timings,” said an official. Garia resident Santilal Das (54), who boarded the first train from Kavi Subhas on Monday morning, said: “From today, I won’t have to wait for a bus to reach office (Park Street) at 8am.” Sanjay Chatterjee, whom the state government appointed to develop the e-pass technology, said: “Since no passes are needed till 8.30am, we didn’t have to introduce a new slot. And we have reduced the number of slots from 14 to 12 because e-passes are off, post 8pm.” From Monday, women and children (up to 15 years) did not need e-passes. No e-passes are needed for Line 2, or the East-West Metro, where footfall hovers around 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-metro-approaches-old-normal-eases-e-pass-rules/articleshow/79614637.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 78k mark in U’khand, nine deaths recorded in Doon||Dehradun: With 512 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Monday, the coronavirus tally reached 78,509 in Uttarakhand. Also, 10 deaths, among which nine were recorded in Dehradun, also surfaced in the state, taking the toll of the virus to 1,295. “Among the 10 deaths, nine were reported from Dehradun district and one from Haldwani,” said GC Pandey, Uttarakhand health department official. Notably, Dehradun has recorded the maximum number of coronavirus-related deaths in the state so far. “Currently, 5,234 cases are active in Uttarakhand. Among these, Dehradun has the maximum 1,738 infections,” added Pandey. Among the new cases found on Monday, the maximum of 229 infections were yet again recorded in Dehradun, followed by 53 in Nainital, 37 in Chamoli, 25 in Pauri, 20 in Tehri, 19 each in Udham Singh Nagar and Uttarkashi, 18 in Almora, 15 in Pithoragarh, 12 in Champawat, four in Rudraprayag, and one in Bageshwar. Meanwhile, 13,660 new samples were collected for Covid-19 test on Monday. The state, till Monday, reported a 5.4% Covid-19 positivity rate while the recovery rate reached 90.5% with a total of 71,105 people recovering from the infection so far. According to the official data, test results of 16,931 samples were pending till Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-78k-mark-in-ukhand-nine-deaths-recorded-in-doon/articleshow/79612436.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Colleges in Madurai see 85% attendance||Madurai: Various colleges in the district welcomed back final year UG and medical students on Monday as campuses reopened for them after more than seven months of being shut due to Covid-19. Students have been strictly instructed to follow SOPs in place for Covid-19 safety, including wearing masks, using hand sanitizers, temperature screening checks and social distancing. “We had around 85% attendance for the morning and 80% for the evening shift. All Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed and any student who has any Covid-19 symptoms or runs a fever will be quarantined,” said Dr D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science. He added that college hostels were also functional and that 85 students were also back at hostels, which is 40% of hostel occupants. At Lady Doak College, final year UG students were allowed to attend classes on a voluntary basis with permission of their parents as the college is continuing with online classes as well. “Theory is not so difficult to follow through online classes. However, for practical classes, we need lab facilities to understand concepts and perform experiments. We are definitely happy that at least now we are back on campus,” said S Shanmuga Priya, a final year BSc physics student at a city college. Madurai Medical College dean Dr J Sangumani said that Covid-19 safety norms are being followed on the campus strictly as Covid-19 patients continue to be treated at the hospital. “As per protocol, all students must submit certificates of their Covid-19 tests showing they tested negative or they will not be permitted to attend classes. Social distancing is being maintained as we have split students into groups in spacious classrooms,” he said. The college hostel is also set to function with safety protocols. The medical college faculty are keen to have students return to the campus. “While for mostly all other streams of studies online classes may suffice, for medical students, practical classes are unavoidable. So, it is good to see students return. With students submitting results of their Covid-19 tests as well, we hope to ensure there is no room for its spread among them,” said a faculty member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/colleges-in-madurai-see-85-attendance/articleshow/79614640.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mask cases peak, cops book even lone offenders||AHMEDABAD: With city police trying to show their efficiency by registering more and more cases for mask violations, the number of offences registered have hit a record high. On each of the last two days, city police fined at least 3,000 persons for not wearing masks. The cops launched a special drive on Sunday and Monday, in which 6,437 persons were booked for not wearing masks. Sunday accounted for 3,260 cases of mask violations, the highest number since the lockdown was imposed on March 24. Officers in the city police said they are being pressured to file the maximum number of mask cases, to the extent that a person travelling alone in a car is also being booked now, which was not done earlier. “I fined a person travelling alone in his car on Ashram Road for not wearing a mask on Saturday. People must wear masks at all times because they need to communicate with someone on the road, they must have proper protection,” the officer said. Cops are so enthusiastic about their mask enforcement drive that they booked a person for removing his mask to drink water in Naranpura on Sunday evening. When the cops demanded the fine, he and his three friends started arguing and all of them were booked for obstructing police work, along with charges of disobedience of the police commissioner’s notification, abetment, and violation of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mask-cases-peak-cops-book-even-lone-offenders/articleshow/79614641.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Varanasi||SP president’s arrest spark protests||VARANASI: At least 29 Samajwadi Party leaders and office-bearers were arrested after they staged demonstration at district headquarters here on Monday in protest against the arrest of party president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow. Similar arrests were made in Akhilesh’s parliamentary constituency Azamgarh and other districts of the region while Leader of Opposition in state assembly Ram Govind Chawdhary lead the Kisan Yatra on a tractor in Ballia. In view of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s call for taking out Kisan Yatra in all districts on the eve of Bharat Bandh call given by farmers protesting in Delhi, the district unit party leaders were busy in preparations when the men in khaki started arriving at the homes of leaders and office bearers. SP’s Varanasi city unit chief Vinshu Sharma said heavy police force was deployed outside his house following which he had to climb the terrace of his neighbour to reach Ashapur to take part in Kisan Yatra. Many senior leaders like former minister Surendra Patel and district unit chief Sujit Yadav had also been stopped at their homes by police while many were called to police stations and had to stay there till further orders, Sharma added. SSP Amit Pathak said police went to the residences of many leaders and also called some others to respective police stations to make them aware about prohibitory orders having been promulgated in the district to prevent gatherings. Despite the measures initiated by police, several SP leaders reached Ashapur crossing to carry out a Kisan Yatra and held a meeting in support of the farmers’ stir and Bharat Bandh call. They were returning from the meeting when news of SP chief’s arrest in Lucknow came following which dozens of party leaders reached district headquarters and staged demonstration shouting anti-government slogans. SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi said 29 protesters had been arrested and taken to police lines in a van. They were released in the evening on furnishing personal bonds, he added. In Azamgarh, several SP leaders and workers, led by former minister Durga Prasad Yadav were arrested after they foiled police bid to stop them inside party office and staged a sit-in on road. They all were sent to police lines. Yadav said his party would not stop its struggle for the farmers despite all the attempts of crushing their democratic protest. He led a tractor procession from Sukhpura crossing to Bansdih tehsil headquarters via Beruabari area under the banner of ‘Kisan Bachao, Khet Bachao’ stir and termed the farm reforms as black law. SP’s protests were also evident in Chandauli, where a procession was taken out from Sakaldiha to district headquarters. The party workers participating in the procession were arrested on reaching Chakia crossing. In Mirzapur, several SP leaders and workers led by district unit chief Devi Chawdhary offered prayer at Vindhyachal temple before carrying out their procession and reaching Lohia crossing, where they were stopped by police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sp-presidents-arrest-spark-protests/articleshow/79613628.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Madurai||7 new dengue cases reported in Dec||Madurai: Seven new dengue cases have been reported in Madurai from December 1 to 6, keeping health officials to be on the alert. Even though the incidence of dengue cases in Madurai is much lower this year compared to 2019, health officials continue to be vigilant as there continues to be sporadic cases being reported across the district. However, officials said that there was no need for any panic. “Usually, intermittent rains lead to rise in dengue cases as dengue-causing mosquitoes can easily breed in stagnant rainwater. Domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) are hence actively being involved in dengue prevention in all areas to check for and remove any sources of mosquito-breeding. Public are also advised to prevent any stagnation of water inside and around their homes,” said a health official. This year, so far, after the onset of the monsoon season, only a total of nine dengue cases were reported in Madurai district in September and October. However, in November, the total cases rose to 14. In December, as on Sunday (December 6), seven dengue cases have already been reported. “However, there is no reason for alarm as all cases are sporadic, spread across both rural and urban areas. Further, necessary preventive measures have been taken in areas where cases were reported. At the same time, till the end of December, there is a need to be vigilant,” said a city health official. Out of the total cases reported since September this year, 50% were in rural and 50% in urban areas. The numbers are also still much less compared to last year when more than 60 dengue cases were recorded just between September and October. There have also been no deaths due to dengue in Madurai. Closure of schools and colleges due to the Covid-19 pandemic was being cited as one of the reasons for the fall in cases this year. As many as 1086 DBCs are engaged in dengue preventive measures across the district. Spraying of abate solution and sprinkling of bleach powder is also carried out as preventive measures. Fogging is being done periodically once in 15 days to cover all areas across the district. Fever surveillance is also on for both dengue and Covid-19. Those with symptoms of dengue, which include high fever, headache, rashes, muscle and joint pain etc., have been urged to immediately consult a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-new-dengue-cases-reported-in-dec/articleshow/79614646.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Use correct mobile no. on ticket forms: Eastern Railway||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) has asked all passengers to ensure that it is their own mobile numbers that appear on reservation forms and not those of ticketing agents or people helping them book tickets using IRCTC IDs. While it is mandatory for the mobile numbers of passengers to be added, it has been noticed that the numbers submitted belong to others in many cases. This becomes a problem when train schedules are altered and messages are sent on mobile phones. “The mobile numbers are crucial so we may be able to communicate with passengers on issues such as delays in train running, short terminations or cancellations. They are also informed if their ticketing status is upgraded. Over time, there have been several complaints by passengers that they were not informed of changes. On checking, we realized that the numbers given to us belonged to somebody else. Though messages were sent, the information was not passed on to passengers,” a senior ER official said. The mobile numbers also help authorities to crack down on touts and illegal travel agencies. If calls on the numbers submitted are not answered by people, whose names appear in the booking forms, confirmed tickets are liable to be cancelled. “We aren’t saying that everybody, who hasn’t given a proper mobile number is a cheat. In many cases, people use IRCTC IDs of relatives and friends and forget to change the number that appears by default. They should be careful. When purchasing tickets from authorized agents, they should insist that their mobile numbers are used,” another official said. Correct mobile numbers also become important during emergencies. In cases of crimes like theft of luggage, security agencies are likely to rely on the number given by the passenger while booking the ticket., the official added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/use-correct-mobile-no-on-ticket-forms-er/articleshow/79614647.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 8, 2020||Kanpur||Cops restrict SP workers, prevent them from taking out Kisan Yatra||KANPUR: Samajwadi Party MLA Amitabh Bajpai and other senior party leaders, who were planning to take out Kisan Yatra from the Ganga barrage, were put under house arrest on Monday afternoon. The yatra was planned by the local SP leaders to express solidarity with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav who had to go to Kannauj to take part in the tractor rally to be taken out as part of the Kisan Yatra in support of the farmers agitating in the outskirts of Delhi. A huge police force was deployed at MLA Amitabha Bajpai’s house in Sarvodaya Nagar and at the places of former MLA Muneendra Shukla and Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha leader Sarvesh Yadav. “Police were deployed today at my house and at the houses of other leaders to prevent us from taking part in the Kisan Yatra which was to be taken out at 1 pm,” said SP MLA Amitabh Bajpai while talking to reporters. The SP workers, when tried to take out the yatra, were put under house arrest or taken into custody, he said. Earlier at around 8 am, without any prior official intimation, police arrived and told them that they could not take out the yatra, he further said.  “When I told the police that the yatra will be taken out come what may, they sealed all the roads leading to my house and the houses of other senior party leaders and remained stationed there till late evening hours and none was allowed to enter or leave the house. The party workers taken into custody were released late in the evening hours”, Bajpai added. Meanwhile, members of the Samajwadi Yuva Sikh Morcha who were to take part in the Kisan Yatra of the Samajwadi Party (SP), were taken into custody by the Nazirabad police on Monday. SP leaders-- Kanwaljeet Singh Manu and Uzma Solanki--were taken into custody by the police at Sangeet Talkies area from where they were taken to the Nazirabad police station. Manu said that they were to take out a `Tractor Yatra’ in the city to express solidarity with party chief Akhilesh Yadav but police had stopped them. He said, “The Modi government is only befooling farmers. How it is possible that the farmers’ income will be doubled when the three bills are ‘anti-farmer.” “Samajwadi Party is with the farmers in their agitation, and the future course of action will be decided soon by the party’s top leadership,” said SP leader Uzma Solanki. She said that by using the force, the Yogi government will not be able to suppress the morale of the SP workers. “SP is with the farmers in their `Bharat Bandh’ and will take part in it,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-restrict-sp-workers-prevent-them-from-taking-out-kisan-yatra/articleshow/79613936.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Video allegedly shows MLA threatening forest officials||AHMEDABAD: A video has gone viral on social media showing Dasada MLA Naushad Solanki asking residents of bets (islets) in Nalsarovar, Gujarat’s only Ramsar site, to go and catch the officials who had relocated them from the bet near Nani Katechi. The MLA is also seen charging the officials with indulging in corrupt practices. Two video recently went viral on social media, where in the first a woman staffer of the forest department is asking locals to vacate the bet near Nani Katechi village as it is a roosting spot for migratory birds. The officer is telling the residents not to stay there at night and gives them three days’ time leave and go to their fields or revenue areas of the village. The second video shows the MLA sitting amid a group of locals. The MLA at one point refers to the other person as Chaudhary, Brijesh Chaudhary, the deputy conservator of forests, Nalsarovar. Solanki says the forest officials have taken away boats and damaged fishing nets. He asks the officials under what law his officers have taken this action. He says these are locals and officers cannot stop them from staying on the bets under the Forest Act. The MLA asks the officer why they are harassing locals who make a livelihood from fishing. The MLA goes on to threaten the officials with raids to evaluate their wealth, alleging that they have been indulging in corruption under the cover of the law. Solanki, in the nearly five-minute video, asks the officer why they cannot meet him in person despite the fact that he had informed them of the visit. Solanki then asks the officers to send subordinate staff or come in person and later tells the locals to go and catch all the officers and bring them there. Solanki admitted that he had visited the area after forest officials seized the boats of the local Padhar community and destroyed their nets. “Forest officials do not have evidence that the locals were involved in mass poaching of birds. They may have caught one or two for their consumption. These 2,000 families are being harassed by officials just because they support the Congress,” Solanki said. He added, “The officers are demanding money to allow locals to fish and for this we have given affidavits to the conservator of forests and have informed forest minister Ganpat Vasava. This particular community are always suspected be it for poaching or theft of electricity or any crime in the area.” Nani Katechi, according to officials, is a village infamous for poaching, not just in the recent past but for over a decade these villagers have been caught poaching migratory birds. Forest department officials refused to speak about the incident. Watch Gujarat: Dasada MLA allegedly threatens forest officials, video goes viral||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/video-allegedly-shows-mla-threatening-forest-officials/articleshow/79614651.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Baby Rani Maurya completes quarantine period, resumes work||Dehradun: Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on November 22, completed her quarantine period on Monday. She also resumed her official duties at the Raj Bhawan on Monday. Immediately after being tested positive for the virus, she had isolated herself under the supervision of doctors. After resuming office, the governor urged people to wear masks and maintain social distancing at public places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/baby-rani-maurya-completes-quarantine-period-resumes-work/articleshow/79612443.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 8, 2020||Kanpur||Anti-farm laws protest: SP workersmarch towards collectorate blocked||PRAYAGRAJ: Over 65 Samajwadi Party (SP) workers were detained on Monday after they tried to march to the district collectorate in support of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the recently introduced farm laws. The workers who had started from the party headquarters in Georgetown were taken to Reserve Police Lines. SP district president Yogesh Chandra Yadav said, “The party workers had decided to march towards the collectorate from SP headquarters’ in support of the farmers protesting against the farm laws. Police had started surrounding the party office since early morning and later took the members to Reserve Police Lines.” He said that some SP workers sat on a dharna and were detained from different parts of the city while they were trying to reach the collectorate. SP spokesman Daan Bahadur said, “We extend our support to the Bharat Bandh being called by various farmer unions. Police and the administration have put several SP workers under house arrest after they tried to go to the collectorate on tractors.” “SP had planned to take out a ‘kisan yarta’ from the party office to the collectorate. However, smaller processions were organised by party workers in trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna areas of the city.” Meanwhile, Congress workers also came out in support of the farmers’ agitation. Member of Congress’ State Working Committee Kishore Varshney said the party has also extended its support to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/anti-farm-laws-protest-sp-workersmarch-towards-collectorate-blocked/articleshow/79613578.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Allahabad||HC impleads DGP, SSP in Tablighi Jamaat case||Prayagraj: The Allahabad High Court has observed that adding attempt to murder charge in the chargesheet against a person for attending the Tablighi Jamaat meet at New Delhi even though he tested negative for novel coronavirus infection prima facie reflects an abuse of the power of law. “The matter needs consideration,” said Justice Ajay Bhanot while directing the counsel for the applicant, one Mohd Saad of Mau district, to implead UP Director General of Police, Senior Superintendent of Police, Mau and circle officer of Mau as respondents in the case. The court also stayed the proceedings of criminal case registered against Mohd Saad at police station Kotwali of Mau district under Sections 307, 270 IPC, in the court of Juvenile Justice Board, Mau till further orders. During hearing, the counsel for Mohd Saad contended that the prosecution says in the chargesheet that the applicant had visited a religious congregation organized by Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi but did not intimate the administration of his arrival after returning nor did he go under voluntary quarantine. The counsel added that upon examination, the applicant had tested negative and contended that even if evidence collected during investigation and in the FIR are taken on face value (though denied as incorrect), no offence is disclosed against the applicant. He further submitted that the original chargesheet was drawn up under Section 270 (whoever malignantly does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and another section of IPC and even presented in the court. However, the same was recalled and fresh chargesheet was submitted under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and 270 (malignly doing an act to spread infection) of IPC on the orders passed by circle officer. Justice Ajay Bhanot directed the circle officer of Mau to file his personal affidavit indicating as to how Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC is made out from the facts in the record from the material collected during the investigation and justify the amendment in the chargesheet directed by him. The court also directed the additional government advocate (AGA), representing the state government to file counter reply in the matter within 10 days. The court directed to put up this case on December 15, 2020 in the list of fresh cases for the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-impleads-dgp-ssp-in-tablighi-jamaat-case/articleshow/79613541.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Southern region reports 170 cases, central dists 135||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 170 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the tally to 1,30,442, which include 1,294 active cases, 1,27,073 recoveries and 2,075 deaths. Meanwhile, the central region saw a mild increase of 35 as it reported 135 fresh cases on Monday taking the tally to 71,526. No deaths were recorded in the south, while the central region recorded a death in Nagapattinam, pushing the toll to 903. Madurai (42) reported the most number of fresh cases in the south TN, followed by Kanyakumari (25), Tirunelveli (22) and Dindigul (21). Madurai (227) and Dindigul (193) have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Tirunelveli (176) and Kanyakumari (166). From having only around 100 or less active cases, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar are nearing the 150-mark now. Madurai continues to remain the only district in the southern region to have more than 200 active cases. Two districts, Theni (48), and Ramanathapuram (39) have less than 50 active cases in the region. Ramanathapuram (6), Sivaganga (6) and Tenkasi (7) reported new cases in single digits on Monday. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. An increase in the number of cases in Thanjavur, Trichy, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai has pushed the tally to 135 in the central districts. Trichy recorded 41 cases, the highest in the region. The district has 197 active cases. Thanjavur came next with 36 cases. There was a sudden jump in the number of cases from 17 on Sunday, which pushed the active cases to 203. Rest of the districts maintained its cases below 20. Perambalur district reported zero cases. Karur registered nine cases, Pudukottai 16 cases, while Ariyalur reported 2 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-region-reports-170-cases-central-dists-135/articleshow/79614649.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kanpur||4 human skulls found in Panki garbage dump||KANPUR: Locals of Kanshiram colony in Panki area were in for a shock on Monday morning when they came across four human skulls at a garbage dumping site. On being informed, the police rushed to the spot. After conducting preliminary investigations, the police collected and dispatched the skulls for forensic examination. “The human skulls, believed to be old, were dumped by someone at a garbage dumping site near Kanshiram colony in Panki,” said inspector Panki Atul Kumar Singh. “As of now, we don’t know yet how these skulls surfaced at the garbage dumping site. The police and forensic team have sent the four skulls to forensic lab. We are questioning locals of the area. Investigations are continuing in this regard,” he added. Meanwhile, an official privy to the investigation said, “As the skulls had vermillion and black colour marks, it could be the act of some sorcerer. We are trying to find out the person who dumped the skulls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/4-human-skulls-found-in-panki-garbage-dump/articleshow/79613994.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Rajkot||NRI having Gujarat roots to guard Australia’s sky||PALANPUR: It is one of the unsung and unheard village of Aravalli’s Modasa taluka. But Tachukada Pahadpur has suddenly come in limelight. This non-descript village of north Gujarat is wearing a festive look after a youth having roots in this village has become guardian of the sky in Australia. Locals are celebrating promotion of 21-year-old Indo-Australian Vraj Patel as a fighter pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), the aerial warfare branch of the Australian Defense Forces. Vraj is son of Vimal Patel, a physics and maths teacher, who migrated to Australia two decades ago. “My grandson had scored 97% marks in class 12 and went on to join Royal Australian Air Force,” a thrilled Natu Patel, a biology lab assistant at Sarvodaya school of Pahadpur village in Modasa taluka, told TOI. “My son and his family are settled in Australia for the past 19 years. We are all proud that my grandson is now a distinguished fighter pilot,” said Patel, whose PhD holder son served as a teacher at Vallabh Vidyanagar based Sardar Patel University before migrating to Australia. After scoring 97 % in class 12, Vraj had joined the ground academy officers training school in Australia. “It was his hard work and dedication that was noticed by his higher ups. After he got selected in RAAF, Vraj continued working hard and just yesterday got appointed as pilot officer of fighter aircraft,” said another close relative of the family. Since the news of Vraj’s promotion has spread in this remote village, the villages are exchanging sweets while congratulatory messages are constantly pouring in the Patel family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nri-having-gujarat-roots-to-guard-australias-sky/articleshow/79612440.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Man, sister duo jump from canal; search op underway||Roorkee: Three persons, including two women who are said to be siblings, jumped in Gangnahar canal near a powerhouse in Manglaur area on Monday and were swept away. Police have recovered the body of a 20-year-old man from the canal whereas a search operation, with help of Army and SDRF teams, is still underway for the missing women. According to sources, a man identified as Ujjawal and two women, all in their early twenties, from the same village of Narsan Kalan under Manglaur police jurisdiction were seen strolling on one of the canal embankments at 12.50 pm near Mohammadpur powerhouse. All of a sudden, Ujjawal and a woman jumped into the brimming Gangnahar canal and the other woman also followed them. They all got swept away in the water current. The reason behind their suicide is yet to be established but it is said that Ujjawal was in a relationship with with one of victim sisters. “We have recovered the body of Ujjawal and pressed two boats — one from BEG (army) another from SDRF — into service to fish out the other two bodies from the canal,” SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-sister-duo-jump-from-canal-search-op-underway/articleshow/79612461.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 8, 2020||Kanpur||Cop resolves tiff to ensure wedding, performs rituals of bride’s brother||KANPUR: A police inspector played crisis manager and resolved a tiff over a minor issue that had snowballed into a fight between the families of the groom and bride leading to the wedding being called off, and performed the rituals of elder brother in the ceremony. Inspector Hamid Siddiqui posted at Vaidpura police station of Etawah district spent hours counselling both sides and did not leave till the wedding of Rahul (24) and Dhan Devi (21) was solemnized on Sunday. Ram Ratan, , a resident of Banamai village in Vaidpura, Etawah, had fixed his daughter Dhan Devi’s marriage with Rahul (24) from Karhal village of Mainpuri. The ‘baraat’ arrived on Sunday night with the groom’s friends and relatives. They were given a warm welcome and served coffee and snacks and everything was going well till a heated argument ensued over a minor issue when a woman relative of the bride entered into a fight with the photographer accompanying the groom, when he refused to click her photos saying he has been instructed to click photos of ‘baraatis’ (members of groom side). The woman took the photographer’s response as insult and told her family members. The petty issue snowballed into a big fight as heated arguments ensued and in the melee, someone from the bride’s side slapped the photographer, triggering a free-for-all as punches, blows and the choicest of expletives were exchanged. The bride’s and the groom’s parents, who were busy preparing for ‘jaimaal’ ceremony, tried to pacify things in vain as both sides refused to relent. Sensing trouble someone from the guests called police, but the groom’s side called off the wedding and left for Mainpuri before police could arrive. The groom’s family had covered 20 km when they received a call from inspector Hamid Siddiqui who introduced himself as elder brother of the bride. He persuaded them and took them back to the marriage venue where he sorted out the misgivings with the help of village elders, and asked them to solemnise the marriage ceremony in his presence. “Even after the wedding, the bride was reluctant to go with the groom apprehending that she would be badly treated by her in-laws. I then asked the groom and his family to give an assurance in writing to the bride and her parents,” said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-resolves-tiff-to-ensure-wedding-performs-rituals-of-brides-brother/articleshow/79613866.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 8, 2020||Kanpur||Dept of sustainable energy engineering set up at IIT-Kanpur||KANPUR: IIT-Kanpur has established the department of Sustainable Energy Engineering with an aim to become a contributor to the nation’s growing clean and renewable energy sector. The Board of Governors of IIT-Kanpur has accorded its approval in a meeting held on Monday, said director, IIT-K, Prof Abhay Karandikar. Chairman, Board of Governors IIT-K, Dr K Radhakrishnan said that starting an academic department in this area is a vital initiative serving the educational and technology development related needs of the country. Prof Karandikar said that the initiative comes at an opportune time when the government has committed to source at least 40% of its energy requirement from clean and renewable energy sources by 2030, as pledged in the Paris Agreement. Prof Karandikar also said that the new department also aims to contribute to India’s bid to become a global leader in the widespread adoption of sustainable energy technologies. Prof. Ashish Garg, who is coordinating the efforts related to the new department, said, “The current research focus of the new department will be on energy generation via solar, wind and other clean resources; batteries and super capacitors; energy storage and distribution; smart grids; carbon capture; clean alternative fuels; waste-to-energy; clean water; and energy policy and economics. The research portfolio will further expand into new areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dept-of-sustainable-energy-engineering-set-up-at-iit-k/articleshow/79613827.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lawyers, judges hold web condolence meet||AHMEDABAD: Judges of the Gujarat high court and other courts including the Supreme Court on Monday paid their tributes to Justice G R Udhwani, who passed away of Covid-19 on Saturday. Judges, government law officers and representatives of the Bar extended their condolences to the bereaved family during a full-court reference organized by the chief justice, online. The judges spoke of Justice Udhwani’s polite nature and patience to grant complete opportunities to lawyers to present their cases. Some judges, who worked with Justice Udhwani for long periods in the lower judiciary and the high court, recalled their experiences with him, especially his help during medical exigencies. Practising lawyers remembered Justice Udhwani’s illustrious practice when he was in the office of K G Vakharia. Before the programme began, the live-streaming began on YouTube and lawyers were seen chatting and greeting each other. Senior advocate Nirupam Nanavati asked them to not to behave so casually and solicitor general Tushar Mehta endorsed his view.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lawyers-judges-hold-web-condolence-meet/articleshow/79614653.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Pvt docs to stage symbolic protest against order allowing surgeries by Ayurveda doctors||Dehradun: As many as 2,000 private medical practitioners across Uttarakhand will stage a symbolic protest against the recent decision of the central government to allow post graduate Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. The protest, announced by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), will also be continued in the form of closure of OPDs on December 11. Announcing this, Dr DD Choudhury, state secretary of the IMA, said that all the private doctors across the state will keep their OPDs shut from 6 am to 6 pm on Friday (December 11). “On Tuesday, we will stage symbolic protests in our OPDs. It is not that we are against anyone but the decision of allowing Ayurveda doctors to conduct surgeries can prove to be detrimental for patients. Why can't the government let us do our job and let other sections of medicine do their jobs properly,” added Dr Choudhury. It's important to mention here that the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), last month, notified that 58 surgical procedures, including general surgery, ENT operations, ophthalmology, urology, surgical gastroenterology, and dental medicine, can be performed by the Ayurveda doctors, who have completed their post graduation. The IMA wants this notification to be withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-docs-to-stage-symbolic-protest-against-order-allowing-surgeries-by-ayurveda-doctors/articleshow/79612450.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 8, 2020||Varanasi||Three drown, 1 man missing as boat capsizes near Tulsi Ghat||VARANASI: At least three persons were killed while one other was feared drowned when a boat carrying over a dozen persons including women capsized in Ganga near Bhadaini-Tulsi Ghat under the limits of Bhelupur police station on Sunday late evening. Body of Vishal Singh of Laxmanpur in Shivpur area was recovered on Monday morning while bodies of Sahil Junaid and Shahnawaj of Bajardiha were recovered in afternoon and evening, respectively after which the police were able to ascertain the number of missing persons. SSP Amit Pathak said, “After the recovery of Junaid and Shahnawaj’s body, search operation is being continued to search Maurya. Earlier, due to wrong information given by the boatman, police had reported that only Vishal and Maurya were missing.” Over a dozen persons including five students had boarded the boat of Manoj Sahani of Bhadaini to reach Tulsi Ghat. However, the boat started capsizing on reaching midstream. On hearing the cries of passengers, other boatmen swung into action and saved nine including Vishal Sonkar. As the rescued passengers left the ghats immediately, police had to struggle hard to ascertain the number of persons drowned. The boatman claimed that the boat disbalanced after a youth fell into the water while taking selfie however, Sonkar informed the police that water started filling in the boat due to overloading. The boatman was arrested by Bhelupur police on Sunday night. By contacting the rescued persons at their adresses, it was found that Vishal Singh and Abhishek Maurya were missing. Divers and NDRF rescuers were engaged to carry out a search operation. DM Kaushal Raj Sharma, SSP, SP City Vikas Chandra Tripathi camped between Assi and Bhadaini ghats till late night to monitor the search operation. The search teams could succeed in fishing out the body of Vishal near Chet Singh Ghat on Monday morning after which Junaid and Shahnawaj’s bodies were fished out in afternoon and evening respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-drown-1-man-missing-as-boat-capsizes-near-tulsi-ghat/articleshow/79613706.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong demands KCR to pass assembly resolution against farm laws||Hyderabad: The Congress has demanded chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to convene a special session of the state assembly and pass a resolution that the Telangana government will not implement the three farm legislations brought by the BJP government at the Centre. “If KCR is really concerned about the welfare of the farmers, the ruling TRS should not confine its support only to the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday but also pass a resolution in the assembly against the three Acts, stating that the TRS government will not implement the three anti-farmer laws in the state,” said former Congress minister Ponnala Lakshmaiah. AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan sought to ask the director general of police whether the cops will make preventive arrests or place under house arrest the ministers, MLAs and other leaders of the ruling TRS to stop them from participating in the Bharat Bandh. “The police conveniently took into their custody or placed under house arrest the Congress leaders whenever they set out to protest against anti-people policies of either the TRS or the BJP governments on the pretext of law and order maintenance and Covid-19 guidelines. Will the police apply the same logic to the ruling TRS leaders on Tuesday,” asked Sravan? The Congress leaders said KCR’s announcement that TRS will fully support the bandh is nothing but a drama. “The TRS has supported the Modi-led BJP government at the Centre for passing of many bills which were anti-poor and anti-farmers in the Parliament. If the TRS is genuinely concerned about the welfare of farmers, it would not have waited so long to announce its support. KCR is scared of Modi to pass resolution in the assembly against the three farm Acts,” Lakshmaiah said. The Congress leaders also attacked KCR for not paying adequate compensation to the farmers whose crops were badly hit due to the heavy rains and floods. “Is it not the KCR government, which is dictating to the farmers what they should cultivate,” he asked? “At least now, try to know the problems being faced by the farmers by joining them in the Bandh,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-demands-kcr-to-pass-assembly-resolution-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79614652.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kanpur||Chakeri airport to get new terminal building in June||KANPUR: Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi memorial Airport, Chakeri is likely to get its news terminal building in June next year.  A couple of days ago, the airport authorities at a meeting held with the construction agency (UPRNN) under the chairmanship of the district magistrate Kanpur Nagar, had directed the construction agency to complete the project by May 31,2021. According to airport director VK Jha, the DM also directed the two departments (construction agency and the airport authorities) to send him a weekly report about progress of the construction. He said the new terminal , being constructed in an area of 600 sq metre, will have a capacity to accommodate a load of 300 passengers. The divisional commissioner too is taking interest in the project and he had visited the airport to inspect progress of the construction work, Jha said. Asad Iraqi, a businessman said, “The city needs a well-developed and modern airport so that investors and businessmen could reach here directly. At present, several business houses have made their corporate houses in Delhi or Mumbai because these cities are well connected with domestic as well as international flights”. Talking to TOI, the airport director said that at present three flights were being operated from Kanpur. They are Delhi-Kanpur- Delhi, Mumbai- Kanpur- Mumbai and Ahmedabad- Kanpur-Ahmedabad. Flights for Bangalore and Kolkata were in the pipeline in the next phase and would likely commence soon, he said. Meanwhile, unconfirmed sources informed that flights for Lucknow, Gwalior and Khajuraho would also start soon from the Chakeri Airport for which the exercise has already been started by the civil aviation department. Apart from it, a flight from Prayagraj- Kanpur- New Delhi is also being planned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chakeri-airport-to-get-new-terminal-building-in-june/articleshow/79613981.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Data science in edu focus||Ahmedabad: The march of technology creates several new disciplines and new job opportunities, but it also threatens several conventional roles. The future of job market will require a multi-disciplinary approach, where machine learning and data science will play a major role, said Ajit Balakrishnan, the CEO of Rediff.com. Balakrishnan was speaking at a virtual talk organized by DAIICT, IEEE, and ACM Gandhinagar and hosted by Prasenjit Majmuder, a DAIICT faculty member. He said machine learning and data science must be taught across the education system. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/data-science-in-edu-focus/articleshow/79614654.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Economic offenders too entitled for furlough leave||Nagpur: Like other prisoners, the economic offenders are also entitled for furlough leave. The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court recently delivered a verdict in this regard, ruling that there are no rules for prohibiting such offenders from getting furlough. While granting the leave to Amardeepsingh Thakur, currently serving at Central Jail here, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote quashed and set aside the DIG’s (Prisons) decision to reject petitioner’s application, 10 months after it was filed. “There is no prohibition under Rule 4 of the Rules, 1959, for an economic offence convict to avail of furlough. Neither there is any material placed by the respondents to show that petitioner’s conduct has been so bad that it would be risky to release him or it would give rise to reasonable apprehension of him misusing the liberty,” said the court. The petitioner through counsel Mir Nagman Ali challenged DIG’s order contending that his application was rejected after 10 months when authority is expected to decide it within two months. While passing several strictures against the government, particularly against the jail superintendent, for providing false information on affidavit and delay in processing parole and furlough applications, the judges warned him against such behaviour. “The reply filed by the superintendent is far from satisfactory, rather it borders upon interfering in administration of justice. We say so with all sense of responsibility. The least that is expected from the government is to be correct on facts and straightforward in submissions. The reply doesn’t fulfil any of these parameters. It’s misleading and also takes a ground which isn’t stated in DIG’s order.” Observing that the superintendent had taken the issue quite personally, the bench said while filing an affidavit, he displayed his utter dislike for the petitioner. “Being a public servant, it’s expected of him to be fair in performance of his duty and treat all jail inmates and staff members with equality. But that hasn’t been done by him,” said the judges. The judges further said this time they wouldn’t pass any order which may be adverse to his (SP) interest, “but we would like to put him and officers like him, who’re public servants, on guard by what we have said”. While requesting the superintendent to remain cautious in performing his duty, the judges directed him to refrain from any attempt from giving false information or misleading the court in future. They directed the registry to send a judgment copy to the director general of police (DGP), and all inspector general of police (Prisons of all zones/regions) and respondents for necessary action. “It has been found that these timelines haven’t been followed by the concerned officials and the petitioner’s application came to be decided finally by DIG almost after 10 months. We expect that respondents and also all concerned officials across the state shall do well in respecting the procedure and timelines prescribed in the circular of August 1, 2007. Otherwise, it would carry no meaning and the erring officials could also be considered to be officers who don’t perform their respective duty with due diligence,” said the court. #What HC said * No prohibition under rule 4 of Rules, 1959, for economic offence convict to avail of furlough leave * SP warned for filing false information and delay in processing parole and furlough applications * SP’s reply is far from satisfactory, rather it borders upon interfering in administration of justice * Least that’s expected from government is to be correct on facts and straight forward in submissions * Being a public servant, it’s expected of SP to be fair in performance of his duty * SP should treat all inmates and staff with equality||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-economic-offenders-too-entitled-for-furlough-leave/articleshow/79614666.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Raids on smuggled cigarettes is tip of the iceberg, says DRI||JAIPUR: A day after seizing foreign made cigarettes and garments worth Rs 77 lakh, sleuths of department of revenue intelligence (DRI) stated that Sunday’s seizure is just a tip of the iceberg. They said smuggling of cigarettes and garments in Jaipur and other parts of Rajasthan is rampant. Officials stated that they are working on some clues they have got from the two arrested smugglers and are likely to unearth more such rackets in the coming days. On Sunday sleuths seized foreign made cigarettes worth Rs 67 lakh which were smuggled into Jaipur and readymade garments worth Rs 10 lakh. Two persons dealing with the smuggled cigarettes and garments have been arrested by the team of DRI. The total evasion of customs duty is Rs 77 lakh. “It was found that the cigarettes arrived in Jaipur via Guwahati (Assam) and entered into India via Myanmar. Foreign made cigarettes are not only popular among customers but also give heavy margin of profit to the sellers including retailers. Many paan shops in Jaipur too keep these cigarettes and sell them to their trusted customers over the counters,” said a senior officer of DRI. The authorities had seized 3.55 lakh sticks of cigarettes worth Rs 67 lakh. “We have got some concrete clues and are likely to bust similar rackets in the coming days. Since these cigarettes have no mentioning of statutory warning on ill-effects of cigarettes it is also a violation of Copta Act.” Sleuths stated that since in the seizure of cigarettes there are no heavy penalties many people are involved in its smuggling. “They have no fear of seizure but yes strong case and further prosecution against them can become a deterrent,” the officer added. Meanwhile, both the arrested accused Nitesh Jain and Ashish Gupta were produced before a local court on Monday. “Both of them have been sent to judicial custody,” said an officer. DRI had registered a case under appropriate sections of Customs Act and also Copta Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raids-on-smuggled-cigarettes-is-tip-of-the-iceberg-says-dri/articleshow/79614677.cms||Ashish Mehta
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Panel to look into tree felling in Karhandla||Nagpur: A nine-member committee of territorial and wildlife officials has been set up to look into violations of tree felling inside Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary and other sets of issues. The committee includes Pench divisional forest officer (DFO) and deputy conservator of forests, Nagpur, and ACFs, RFOs, and forest surveyors. P Kalyan Kumar, CCF for Nagpur circle, said, “The committee will look into boundary demarcation. It will fix boundary on the ground and ensure permanent pillars are fixed so that wildlife and territorial boundaries are clearly demarcated.” As reported by TOI, while granting permission to fell 280 trees for Nagpur-Nagbhid railway up-gradation project in the territorial area, over 50 trees were also felled in wildlife sanctuary compartment number 1439 under the garb of undefined boundaries. On action for illicit felling, Kumar said, “As of now, there is no action against any staff. Omissions and commissions will be fixed only after the committee submits a report in seven days.” The area where tree felling was done is a scientifically proved wildlife corridor by Wildlife Institute of India (WII). Yet, tree felling permission for the linear project was granted by South Umred RFO Vaishnavi Jhare without taking the consent of wildlife officials. Earlier in February, Jhare had granted permission to fell over 350 trees in tiger corridor between Titur and Shivni for the same project without following requisite procedure of transit pass (TP) and hammering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/panel-to-look-into-tree-felling-in-karhandla/articleshow/79614676.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Man behind the Salem star||“Jayaprakash Anna Illanna Naan Illai (Without my brother Jayaprakash, I wouldn’t be where I am)," is how Thangarasu Natarajan described his mentor A Jayaprakash during a chat with TOI when the IPL was on in October. It’s something on the lines of elder brother Ajit Tendulkar’s influence on Sachin during his growing up years — a constant support system — but we didn’t get to hear so much about it from the Little Master in public during his playing days. Natarjan is different, he has never shied away from showing his gratitude for his ‘big brother’. Be it on his Sunrisers Hyderabad jersey (JP Nattu), his official Instagram account (natarajan_jayaprakash) or a tattoo on his left-hand — Natarajan, who burst into the international scene with a formidable debut during the ongoing India-Australia series, always goes the extra yard to show respect for the man who guided him. His mother T Shantha calls Jayaprakash her own child. "My son and JP both have remained very good friends and I wish they remain like this even after our death. JP is like my first son," Shantha said.Be it the new high of playing for India or the few roadblocks preceding it in the past few years — the two have faced success and challenges together. Their friendship began in 2009 when Jayaprakash — a Salem division cricketer — first spotted Nattu, as he fondly calls Natarajan. "I saw him with the ball at Chinnappampatti, a village about 36km from Salem. He was bowling with a tennis ball and his pace and control impressed me," he recalled.Thirty-four-year-old Jayaprakash, JP to the boys, who played for Salem Kings as an allrounder in the division league has a keen eye for spotting talent. "I also run the Chinnappampatti Cricket Club and have, over the years, seen a lot of players with promise. Nattu had the natural ability to bowl yorkers and being a left-arm pacer — he was always going to be an X factor in any team," said JP.A stock trader by profession, JP, invested his time and money in shaping Natarajan’s cricketing future. "All that he needed was direction and I was happy to offer that," JP said. JP’s unflinching support notwithstanding, Natarajan faced his first major obstacle — the switch from tennis ball to leather ball in 2010. Picked for the Salem U-23 district squad that year, he had to quickly embrace the ‘new ball’. "It was a challenge for him since he had never bowled with a leather ball till that point. All that I told him was to keep practising and he would eventually get used to it," said JP, who doesn’t go too much into the technicalities of the game, leaving it to the coaches. His influence is more about channelising the player in the right direction, through thick and thin.By 2011, the next pitstop in Natarajan’s journey was orchestrated by JP — switching base to Chennai. Interestingly, JP had at one point dreamed of playing top-flight division cricket in Chennai but it never materialised . Despite not making it big in the city, JP understood Chennai’s role as the nerve-centre for cricket in Tamil Nadu and how it could boost his protégé’s career. Nattu was initially scared of how he would adjust to living in Chennai. "Every time I have been scared, JP anna was there with his words of encouragement, and it kept me going," he said.Natarajan began by playing for BSNL in the fourth division and subsequently for Triplicane Friends United CC in the TNCA second division. From thereon, he moved to Vijay CC before settling at Jolly Rovers in 2014. Consistent performances in the TNCA league earned him a Ranji berth in the 2014-15 season but was called for suspect action on his debut against Bengal. "It was a tough time for him but I made sure he never lost hope. Constant pep talks were all that Nattu needed to make a comeback," JP said. The Salem man missed the 2015-16 season as he was working on his action, but made a strong return to the big stage thanks to TNPL in 2016. His performances that season for Dindigul Dragons catapulted him to IPL where he played for Kings XI Punjab in 2017 before Sunrisers Hyderabad bought him in 2018. He found his true bearing this year and has been awarded with an India cap.Another player who benefited from JP’s help is G Periyaswamy, who also hails from Chinnappampatti. Periyaswamy, with vision issues in his right eye, wanted to quit cricket due to economic and health complications before JP and Natarajan convinced him and his family that there was a future in the sport. (With inputs from Senthil Kumaran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-behind-the-salem-star/articleshow/79616066.cms||Prasad RS
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||PMAY-G 2020-21 fund: Less than half of 1st instalment received from Centre||JAIPUR: In a presentation, given to chief secretary Niranjan Arya by rural development department last week, it came to light that of the total funds required, Rs 3119.80 crore, from the Centre’s share under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Grameen (PMAY-G) for 2020-21 target, the Centre has not even paid half the amount for first instalment, which is Rs 1328.2 crore. The Centre has paid Rs 658.40 crore under first instalment so far. Moreover, the presentation pointed out that from state’s share not a single rupee has been released for the scheme so far. However, additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development and panchayati raj department, Rohit Kumar Singh said around Rs 198 crore from state’s share was released last week. The state’s total share of funds for target set under PMAY-G is Rs 2079.87 crore. Therefore, including the centre’s share (Rs 3119.80 crore), total funds required for 2020-21 is Rs 5199.67 crore. For the first instalment, the Centre is supposed to pay remaining Rs 669.80 crore. For 2020-21, against the total target of 4.43 lakh, 1.92 lakh houses have been sanctioned so far and only 9289 houses have been built so far. Singh said, “Last week we received some money. Around Rs 198 crore was released (by the state) about three-four days ago. But, the programme is almost getting over. The number of NOLBs (No One Left Behind) is very few in numbers in the state. We must, in fact, search for those left out. People usually migrate to other states along with their cattle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pmay-g-2020-21-fund-less-than-half-of-1st-instalment-received-from-centre/articleshow/79614681.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
December 8, 2020||Goa||‘Forest claims by Netravali tribals to be disposed in three months’||Poinguinim: Setting up of the special court at the premises of Netravali government high school to settle the forest rights claims of the villagers has brought them some relief. The villagers residing in the area of this remote wildlife sanctuary had to travel nearly 30 to 35 kilometres all these years to get their forest right claims settled, which led to the issues dragging on for decades. The tribals said they are now able to follow up their cases in a better way. Deputy collector for Sanguem Ajay Gaude, who has been empowered to settle the tribals’ forest rights claims, has assured the villagers inhabiting Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary that the special court under him will be holding sittings every Tuesday and Friday to dispose of their claims at the earliest. Gaude told TOI that he has asked the forest department to produce their plans with respect to Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary and said that the concerned villagers have already produced relevant documents on their part. Therefore, the orders in a majority of the cases can be expected to be pronounced within two to three months’ time, Gaude said. More than 700 cases in Sanguem under the Forest Rights Act 2006 are waiting to be disposed of since the implementation of the Act in the state in 2012. Until the special court was set up, the hearings were taking place at the deputy collector’s office in Sanguem. Gaude said that of the 1,220 cases pertaining to the whole of Sanguem, around 500 cases have already been disposed of and the remaining, connected particularly to tribals of Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary, are waiting to be disposed of. The majority of the cases pertaining to tribals from the sanctuary area are connected to the forest land where they have been undertaking agricultural plantations for the last 50 years or more and some families for around 100 years, Gaude added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-claims-by-netravali-tribals-to-be-disposed-in-three-months/articleshow/79615877.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Keys stolen, Ytl SP locked out of office||Yavatmal: The superintendent of police Dilip Bhujbal Patil had to wait outside his office for over an hour on Saturday as a bunch of keys was allegedly stolen by unknown miscreants. The police had to call for a locksmith to open the office. The SP summoned SDPO Madhuri Baviskar and ordered her to investigate the matter and submit a report. Interestingly, when Baviskar wanted to scan CCTV footage from the cameras installed to keep an eye on visitors and public movement in and around the building that housed the SP’s office, it came to fore that all cameras were non-functional for the last several days. The SDPO has recorded statements of three cops, who were entrusted with the duty of guarding the office and premises. Over two months ago, a service pistol along with a magazine loaded with 10 live cartridges was stolen from Bangar Nagar residence of one API Rahulkumar Raut. A maid working in Raut’s residence had informed the investigators that a stranger in cop's uniform had visited the house when the Raut couple had gone out. Immediately after the theft, Raut had expressed suspicion that it could be the handiwork of someone from the department to malign his image. The police have failed to make any headway in the case till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/keys-stolen-ytl-sp-locked-out-of-office/articleshow/79614680.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic body paves way for Rs 75 crore Civil Lines RoB project||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) gave financial and administrative approval for Rs 75-crore project, Civil Lines railway overbridge (RoB) project in the projects works committee meeting on Monday. The civic body also approved the maps of the RoB. As per initial proposal, the flyover would be approximately 650 metres long. The project will have three legs with the first one being proposed from DLB road. A senior official said, “The tender document has been completed and will appoint the firm soon. With all roads clear, the tender document to appoint the firm will be invited soon. The project is expected to take 2 years after the work is awarded.” The proposal to construct the RoB was tabled during the previous Congress tenure too but was shelved citing security reasons. To reduce traffic near the crossing, JDA had decided to construct RoB in 2012. The decision was taken after the consultancy firm submitted the feasibility report. “The JDA had appointed Rambol Consulting Engineering Limited, a Kolkata-based company, to carry out a feasibility report. The firm had submitted six options,” said a source. In the previous report, it was proposed that the RoB over the railway line had to be constructed with a 60-degree curve. However, many opposed the move as giving such a sharp turn could have raised the possibilities of accidents on the over-bridge. Shifting the police outpost and water tank situated near the track was also challenged at that time. Sources said, “These structures will not be considered in the new design as the JDA has plans to shift them.” A JDA official said, “Out of these six options, the JDA had found that construction of RoB from Jamnalal Bajaj Marg to Jacob Road was the most feasible option. The proposal had to be sent to the chief minister for final approval as it was proposed to be constructed near the chief minister’s and governor’s residences. However, the UDH department did not move the proposal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-paves-way-for-rs-75cr-civil-lines-rob-project/articleshow/79614682.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||JDA set to prepare Jaipur’s development vision till 2050||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will initiate an exercise to prepare land use and development master plan, a document that will guide how land in the state capital will be used for the next 25 years, up to 2050. The document, according to officials, will boost the optimal use of land to spur economic transformation in the Pink City. As per the 2025 master plan, 65 lakh is the projected population by 2025 of Jaipur region. However, at present, more people are staying in Jaipur district. “It is required to develop the infrastructure, junction and crossing improvement, develop green city for growing population. For the same surveys will be conducted and it would be completed by 2022,” said an official. At present, the JDA has a total area of 2,945 sqkm including 800 sqkm U1 (urban area). The town planners believe that there will be a requirement to include more areas in the JDA in the next 25 years. The civic body has earmarked 457.46 sqkm land for residential and 72.22 sqkm for commercial use in the master development plan of 2025. In the master plan 2025, JDA has marked the area which is densely populated as U1. The U2 area is mostly rural where land is vacant and agricultural activities are not taking place. The JDA has described land use till U2 area. An official said, “It appears after the implementation of model bylaws, the requirement of land for city’s expansion in 2050 will be less as vertical and compact growth is promoted. Till date, habitation in outer JDA region is scanty.” There’s a provision in JDA to review the master plan of the city in every 10 years. An exercise to analyse the achievements of the previous master plan and prepare Vision 2050 document of the city has been initiated. “The horizon year for the master plan will be 2050. It will aim at transforming the city into a vibrant and economic hub. The focus will also be on improving quality of life in an inclusive manner along with smart and sustainable green and clean infrastructure and resilient environment,” said a town planner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-set-to-prepare-citys-development-vision-till-2050/articleshow/79614684.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Four booked for open firing in crematorium over fin disputes||RAJKOT: Four persons were booked on Sunday night for firing in the air in the crematorium of Chokadi village of Chuda taluka in Surendranagar district where the victim was performing the last rites of his mother. After the victim, Bharat Sindhav (48), dodged a bullet fired on him, the accused attacked him with iron pipes. The attack was the result of a financial dispute. Police said the accused, Mahavirsinh Sindhav, nephew of Bharat, Mayur Dodiya, Umesh Parmar and their unidentified aide, arrived on two bikes while Bharat was performing the last rites of his mother at the crematorium of Chokadi village. “Mahavirsinh first fired one round at Bharat who ducked the bullet. After this, the co-accused fired eight to 10 rounds in the air. Then the accused started hitting Bharat with iron pipes, causing him serious injuries,” said G K Jadeja, sub-inspector with Chuda police station. After Bharat ran into a financial dispute with Mahavirsinh, he left his native of Chokadi village and moved to Botad to live with his other nephew Raviraj Rathod. On Saturday, Bharat received the news of his mother's demise, following which he and Rathod went to Chokadi to perform the last rites. The attack took place at the time when Bharat had just ignited the funeral pyre. The attack left Bharat seriously injured. One of his hands and legs were fractured. He also received serious injuries on his head. Bharat was first taken to Chuda Civil Hospital and from there he was shifted to a private hospital in Botad, where his condition deteriorated. The police have booked the accused under sections 307, 325, 326, 504 of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. The police have launched a manhunt for the accused who have gone absconding ever since the complaint was lodged against them. Rathod has become the complainant in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-booked-for-open-firing-in-crematorium-over-fin-disputes/articleshow/79611819.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Mysuru||Dad gives phone for e-class, teen finds his affair video in Karnataka's Mandya||MANDYA: Lending his mobile phone to his teenage daughter for online classes proved disastrous for a man who was carrying on a clandestine extramarital affair. The girl, who chanced upon an intimate video of her father with another woman, told her mother who now wants him punished. Police and voluntary organisations have been trying to resolve the dispute in the family in Nagamangala taluk of Mandya. While the woman wants a separation, her husband is reportedly adamant that he be reunited with the family. The couple, who have been married for 18 years, have two daughters, aged 15 and 17. Cops said the husband’s well-kept secret unravelled in October when he gave the older daughter his mobile phone to attend online lessons for Class 12. Going through the phone’s contents, she found a video showing her father with another woman, who happened to be a relative. The man reportedly filmed their intimate moments. Once his wife came to know about the affair, she approached police and women’s organisations seeking action against her husband, who is a rowdysheeter. A non-cognizable report has been filed. ‘Man can be prosecuted under IT Act’Police said cops and officials of Santvana Kendra have been trying to broker peace between the couple but in vain so far. An officer said since adultery is no longer an offence, the man cannot be proceeded against on that count, as demanded by the wife. However, the officer said, the man can be prosecuted under provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000. “We have to see if the man filmed the video without the woman’s consent and if he forwarded the video to other devices,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dad-gives-phone-for-e-class-teen-finds-affair-video/articleshow/79616314.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka not to table bill against ‘love jihad’ now||BENGALURU: Two days after the BJP’s executive committee gave its nod and after several cabinet ministers supported fast-tracking of a law against forcible conversion for marriages, the Karnataka government on Monday decided not to introduce the bill in the ongoing winter session of the legislature. “No love jihad (law) this time. We will enact only anti-cow slaughter legislation in this session,’’ said revenue minister R Ashoka. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, among those in the cabinet who favoured early introduction of the contentious bills, on Monday said the state will keep the anti-love jihad bill “ready” before the next session. He said he’s been asked to gather information on UP’s ordinance. Bill against farmers, hope govt backs out, says DKSHome minister Basavaraj Bommai said he’s been asked to gather information on Uttar Pradesh’s ordinance against forcible or fraudulent religious conversions which imposes up to 10-year jail term and up to Rs 50,000 penalty under different categories. However, law minister JC Madhuswamy has been maintaining that the government has no plans to bring in a bill against love jihad in the backdrop of criticism from the Congress. ‘It’s to stop killing of cows’In Shivamogga, chief minister BS Yediuruappa said the bill against cow slaughter will be tabled in the current session. “Farmers worship cow as god, and Indian culture accords special place for it. The blanketban move is to stop killing of cows,” Ashoka said. A team of officials led by animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan recently visited Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat — which have enacted anti-cow slaughter law — to study its implementation before introducing the bill in the session that began on Monday. The minister held discussions with UP CM Yogi Adityanath in this regard. Earlier, Siddaramaiah, opposition leader in the legislative assembly, had said the Congress will oppose bills against love jihad and cow slaughter. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said the BJP was playing a dangerous political game in a bid to reap electoral dividends. “BJP functionaries are in the forefront of beef-export business; we know in which state the business is thriving. The bill is against farmers as it will affect them. I hope good sense prevails and the government backs out from tabling the bill,” he said. Rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa attacked the Congress and said, “People, especially women, regard cow as mother and goddess. Let Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar ask their spouses whether they will endorse cow slaughter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-govt-not-to-table-bill-against-love-jihad-in-this-session/articleshow/79616318.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Tap CSR funds to provide laptops to govt students: HC to Karnataka||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday directed the Karnataka government to tap Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to distribute laptops, tablets and computers to government school and RTE students to facilitate learning under the Vidyagama programme during the pandemic. The high court directed the government to decide whether Vidyagama could be recommenced after assessing the Covid-19 status in the state. A division bench headed by Justice BV Nagarathna granted 10 days for reconsideration while pointing out that it’s not known when the pandemic will subside and when regular classes will commence for students, particularly those who have benefited by the RTE Act. ‘Kids may be forced into labour or marriage if classes disrupted’Vidyagama, designed for students without access to technology or the internet, was discontinued due to a spike in positive cases. The government told the court that currently, only classes 5 to 10 students are being taught through TV channel Chandana, while pre-primary and primary pupils have no benefit of online education. Responding to the submission by the government advocate that the state is facing a financial crunch following huge expenditure due to Covid-19 spread, the court said the government may garner CSR funds under under Section 135 read with Schedule VII(ii) of Companies Act, 2013 for distribution of laptops, tablets and computers. Petitioners AA Sanjeev Narrain and two others had sought directions for providing online educational gadgets/ facilities to children, particularly those under the Right to Education Act, 2009. They said due to lack of continuity in classes, children may be distracted. There is a possibility that such children may be forced into labour or marriage and now they don’t get midday meals also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-to-state-tap-csr-funds-to-provide-laptops-to-govt-students/articleshow/79616319.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Why have GPS devices if vehicles aren’t tracked, safety council asks TN||Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s transport department is illegally granting approval only to a few Vehicle Location Tracking Device (VLTD) manufacturers after colluding with them for unlawful profiteering, said S Kamal Soi, member of National Road Safety Council (NRSC). The state has denied any wrongdoings and said approving limited manufacturers was a quality-control measure. Back-of-the-envelope calculations by truckers and automobile industry experts paint a potential scam worth at least Rs 1,200 crore. There are 12 lakh commercial vehicles in the state and each of the ten approved VLTD manufacturers sell their products for at least Rs 10,000 more than other market players. VLTDs with panic buttons were made mandatory for all commercial vehicles such as taxis, trucks and buses following the infamous Delhi gang rape case and it became a rule in 2016. The Union ministry of road transport and highways also directed state governments to setup a control and command centre (CCC) in state capitals to monitor movement of all commercial vehicles using the VLTDs/GPS kits installed in them. In Tamil Nadu, the transport department has not setup a CCC but has mandated all 12 lakh commercial vehicles plying within the state to install VLTDs. The VLTDs installed were to be from 10 specified manufacturers, who were given the go-ahead on November 18. Regional Transport Officers (RTOs) were directed to not issue vehicle fitness certificates (FCs) if vehicles didn’t have VLTDs installed. Kamal Soi was a member of a NRSC team that flew down to TN after a TOI report on December 2 flagged potential discrepancies. “Without a back-end application at CCC to monitor vehicles and pass on alerts (made through panic buttons in vehicles) to nearby police stations or health centres/ambulances, what is the point of mandating its installation?,” Soi asked reporters here. Members of the central advisory body also questioned the rationale behind allowing just 10 manufacturers to sell the VLTDs when government agencies such as ARAI and ICAT have approved hundreds of them. When TOI contacted him, TN transport commissioner Tenkasi S Jawahar rejected corruption charges and said the move to limit approved manufacturers was aimed at avoiding duplicate products in the market. He added that any approved manufacturer will be allowed to sell VLTDs in TN once their genuineness was verified. Citing a central government notification dated October 2018, Jawahar said states were allowed to take services from VLTD manufacturers till the states have their own back-end system (CCC) available. So far, 10 manufacturers have shared their server links through which the department was able to check genuineness and track vehicular movement, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-have-gps-devices-if-vehicles-arent-tracked-safety-council-asks-tn/articleshow/79613634.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||After Nishank expresses disappointment at quality of work being carried out at Har-ki-Pauri, locals say officials wasting money||Haridwar: Days after Haridwar MP and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank pulled up officials over the quality of work being carried out at Har-ki-Pauri during an inspection, several residents of Haridwar city are now claiming that the expansion work at the holy site is being done without planning and that officials are just “wasting money”. Earlier, CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) funds to the tune of Rs 33 crore from a prominent public sector unit (PSU) were sanctioned for the expansion work of the Har-ki-Pauri. Om Prakash Jamdagni, representative of the Haridwar MP and Union education minister, told TOI, “ Nishankji did the hard work for securing Rs 33 crore from the PSU for the expansion and development works at Har-ki-Pauri but unfortunately, the executing agency with the help of the irrigation department changed the project report and around Rs 18 crore from the CSR fund has now been allotted for the beautification of Rodibelwala Ground. This is a waste of money as this ground is just used for the camping of police teams during mega fairs. Similarly, the rest of the money is being spent on renovation work of Har-ki-Pauri. This is also against Dr Nishank’s plan as he wanted to increase the seating capacity of Har-ki-Pauri.” Local resident RM Dobhal told TOI, “Everyone wants to take part in the Ganga aarti at Har-ki-Pauri and its expansion for increasing the seating capacity is the need of the hour but officials are just laying new tiles in place of old tiles which is a complete waste of money. CSR funds are also public money and wasting this money is a crime. Government should take action against the officials responsible .” In a similar vein, local trader Sanjeev Nayyar told TOI, “Hundreds of crores are being spent in Haridwar in the name of development but without planning. A well-planned project should have been prepared for the development of the Har-ki-Pauri but what is being done is just formality. An inquiry must be set-up by the government.” Meanwhile officials claimed that the PSU that provided the money also gave the executing agency. Additional Mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI, “Local authority was part of the old project but the executing agency hired by the PSU changed the plan and we are not involved in the development works at Har-ki-Pauri now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-nishank-expresses-disappointment-at-quality-of-work-being-carried-out-at-har-ki-pauri-locals-say-officials-wasting-money/articleshow/79612585.cms||MS Nawaz
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Potholes dot flyovers, ROBs: Traffic police study||Nagpur: Not just the city’s roads, even flyovers and railway overbridges have developed potholes, states a study by the traffic police. The study revealed that the Pachpaoli railway overbridge has potholes, while the Sadar flyover has witnessed five fatal and serious accidents since it was opened to traffic. As per the study, the city has 22 flyovers and railway overbridges across 10 zones of the traffic police. Apart from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), different sections of the city flyovers, ROBs come under the jurisdiction of the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), state PWD and NHAI. In the past, TOI had highlighted how potholes on flyovers and overbridges in the city were making driving difficult for motorists, especially two-wheeler riders. The study was initiated by DCP traffic Sarang Awad to access the condition of the city’s flyovers and ROBs. The Pachpaoli ROB, which comes under the Lakadganj zone of traffic police, was constructed by MSRDC. Due to potholes, gaps in expansion joints between pillars at 36 places and mishaps have made the ROB quite problematic for motorists. However, the condition of the road under the ROB is not in bad shape, says the study. Officials from NMC’s public works department claimed they frequently carry out repair works on the Pachpaoli ROB though it is owned by MSRDC. This zone also has two more ROBs — Mehdibagh and Dahi Bazaar, owned by MSRDC, are in a good condition. Indora zone too has four ROBs – two each being managed by NHAI and PWD. The cuttings on road dividers are improper and sometimes create confusion among motorists. The Rajiv Gandhi bridge, which is owned by PWD, witnessed one fatal accident. Sadar zone has two flyovers owned by NHAI and one ROB owned by PWD. The ROB is in good condition. However, the NHAI has been asked to take some corrective measures for the Sadar flyover, including curbing accidents. Opened to traffic in 2019, this flyover has witnessed five fatal accidents. The road beneath the flyover is in good condition and is appropriate for vehicular movement, the study says. The PWD-owned Chikhli flyover, which comes under Kamptee traffic zone, too has claimed one life and it is dotted with small potholes. Similarly, Sakkardara flyover owned by MSRDC has developed some small potholes, while the agency’s Dighori flyover is in good condition, the study reveals. Opened a couple of years ago, the condition of Ram Jhula ROB is good, but the road beneath the flyover is in bad shape and needs immediate attention of the state’s PWD. The Manas Chowk to Jaistambh Square flyover jointly owned by the NMC and PWD too is in bad shape due to potholes. Height barriers have been demanded for Ajni ROB, the study stressed. Another ROB under Ajni traffic zone in Dighori area is in good condition but it has claimed two lives. The traffic police has called for immediate repair of potholes on the Narendra Nagar ROB. Box Agency — Flyovers/ROBs PWD—5 NHAI—4 MSRDC—6 METRO—2 NMC&PWD—2 PWD-NH—2 World Bank—1 Potholes — Narendra Nagar ROB, Pachpaoli ROB, Chikhli ROB Improper dividers —Rajiv Gandhi flyover, Martin Nagar ROB, ROB on Smuri Nagar on Koradi road||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/potholes-dot-flyovers-robs-traffic-police-study/articleshow/79614687.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 8, 2020||Trichy||Bus terminus, pilgrim circuit figure in demands submitted to DMK manifesto panel||Trichy: The DMK election manifesto committee has received petitions and demands from party men and several others urging them to include Trichy’s development in their poll manifesto for the upcoming assembly election. The team comprising committee coordinator T R Baalu, principal secretary K N Nehru, propaganda secretary Trichy N Siva, spokesperson T K S Elangovan visited Trichy on Monday and met the petitioners at Kalaignar Arivalayam in the city. As many as 200 people including party cadres, members of farmers associations, businessmen, traders, doctors, engineers, self-help group members and those from a few other sectors submitted their petitions. A group of welfare association insisted on the need for an integrated bus terminus for Trichy with the local DMK functionaries giving priority to the issue. Members of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu submitted their demand for keeping the Gandhi market in the existing location. It may be noted that Gandhi market resumed operation a few days ago following a high court order after remaining closed for several months. The demand for extension of both sides of the road from the court to Allithurai figured in the list this time also, besides a semi ring road connecting the pilgrim places of Trichy. The meeting, which commenced around 9am, went on till 12 noon. Besides receiving the petitions, the committee members also listened to the petitioners. The party will consider the demands while preparing the manifesto for the 2021 assembly election. DMK south district secretary MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, central district secretary Vairamani and north district secretary N Thiagarajan also attended the meeting. The committee had completed its visits to Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, and Pudukottai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bus-terminus-pilgrim-circuit-figure-in-demands-submitted-to-dmk-manifesto-panel/articleshow/79614690.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Drunk cop harasses woman, beaten up||CHENNAI: Police arrested a constable on Monday, a day after he got drunk and allegedly misbehaved with a woman while in uniform at Vadapalani. A video of constable Rajiv being bashed up by a crowd of people has gone viral. Rajiv of Arumbakkam is attached to the KK Nagar police station but was posted at MGR Nagar station temporarily. Around 10pm on Sunday, an officer said, Rajiv was going home after duty when he stopped at a bus stop near Ambika Empire Hotel on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai (100 Feet Road) and saw a woman looking at her phone. The constable, who was drunk, went closer to the woman, later identified as an employee of a private hospital, and asked her to hop on to his bike, the officer said. When she refused, he allegedly grabbed her by the hand and he tried to misbehave with her. She raised an alarm and was soon joined by another woman who was at the bus stop. The two women began hurling abuses at Rajiv before a few residents of the area and passersby gathered there, the officer said. All of them began questioning the constable and began attacking him. The woman who the constable allegedly began hitting him with her footwear, goaded by the crowd, the officer said. The other woman too began beating him up and asked him to prostrate before the first woman. One of those at the spot captured the whole episode on camera and the video was circulated on social media on Monday. A senior police officer said the constable was arrested under the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Women Harassment Act. Rajiv, who was injured in the attack, was released on bail. “He will be suspended for his behaviour and departmental action will be initiated for being drunk in uniform,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drunk-cop-harasses-woman-beaten-up/articleshow/79613686.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Khammam IT Hub opens, 19 cos start work||Hyderabad: A newly-constructed IT Hub, which will house 19 companies, was inaugurated in Khammam by IT and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Monday. The minister also announced that the second phase of the hub will also be taken up to provide another 30,000 to 40,000 sq ft of space. The construction of the second building would be done at a cost of Rs 20 cr. On a day when he participated in several other programmes, the minister announced Rs 30 crore for developing roads in Khammam town. “I had a talk with the chief minister while I have been on this tour and he has asked me to announce Rs 30 cr grant from the chief minister’s special development fund,” KTR said. This would be utilised for repairing roads and highways or laying new roads in Khammam 1 town, 2 Town and 3 Town limits. While lauding the beautification of the city and providing of amenities by the municipal authorities, the minister said in his opinion Khammam municipality was the best in the state. He said the mayors of 122 municipalities would be sent to Khammam to take a look at the place and also develop their places on such lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khammam-it-hub-opens-19-cos-start-work/articleshow/79613596.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Declare Ajni a deemed forest, demand greens||Nagpur: Citing a judgment by the apex court, environment activists have demanded Ajni’s lush green area be declared a deemed urban forest. In a letter to the principal chief conservator of forest, former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das stated the area had rich biodiversity including over 50 indigenous tree species, with some of them over 100 years old. “The area has dense tree canopy cover with over 7,000 trees and is home for numerous species of birds, like yellow-footed green pigeon (state bird) and oriental honey buzzard (city bird). The area fits into the category of identified forest as directed by the Supreme Cort,” he stated. In a December 1996 judgment, the Supreme Court had asked state governments to form committees to identify forests. Deemed forests are “land having the characteristic of forests irrespective of the ownership.” Das has requested the forest chief to survey the area and give it much-needed protection. “This is not only the need of the hour but the patch of forest is one of the last green areas in the city, especially on the eastern side,” he added. As is being reported by TOI, thousands of trees on the Central Railway land in Ajni are facing the axe for construction of a transport hub and an inter modal station. In a proposal submitted to the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), NHAI in its two applications has sought permission to cut nearly 2,000 trees. Experts however feel the real damage will be much more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/declare-ajni-a-deemed-forest-demand-greens/articleshow/79614695.cms||Manka Behl
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur divisional commissioner forms probe team for irregularities||JAIPUR: Jaipur divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Monday while inspecting the offices of Jhotwara and Jalsu panchayat samitis in Jaipur rural area, formed a probe committee of three officials as some irregularities were found in MGNREGA work.  At Hatouj gram panchayat, while plantation and other works amounting to Rs 7 lakh was reported to have been done at a crematorium, it was found that as much work was not done under NREGA. He directed the probe team to submit a report within 24 hours.  Sharma also expressed displeasure when he found the sub-health centre locked at Hathouj. He asked the officials to take appropriate action. Moreover, at Kalwar Community Health Center of Jhotwara Panchayat Samiti, only one male nurse was found and, it was reported that medical staff leaves for home before scheduled time.  He also found the columns of the attendance register at the community health centre empty for two days. On this, he directed the joint director to take disciplinary action for negligence against incharge Dr. Richpal Kudi and BCMHO Dr. Vijay Faujdar and three male nurses for being absent from the Community Health Center.  He also asked the officials to take action against those who had absent themselves at government ayurvedic nursery without informing. In view of spread of Covid infection in the district, collector Antar Singh Nehra on Monday appointed 23 incident commanders, who will jointly identify containment zones in coordination with assistant police commissioners and medical officers of the police station areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/div-comm-forms-probe-team-for-irregularities/articleshow/79614693.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||800 of over 1,100 candidates lost deposit in GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Nearly 800 of the total 1,122 candidates lost their deposit in the GHMC 2020 elections. Interestingly, the top two parties, the TRS and the BJP which stunned everyone with its impressive show of winning 48 wards too lost deposits. TRS candidates lost their deposit in over 30 divisions most of which are located in Old City. In GHMC 2016 elections, TRS candidates were runners up in most of the wards in Old City, with MIM winning most seats. However, in GHMC 2020 polls, BJP emerged runners up replacing the TRS in a majority of the wards in Old City. Political analysts said the TDP-BJP combine vote bank had shifted to the TRS in the 2016 polls and that the saffron party had regained its vote bank in Old City in GHMC 2020 elections. However, the BJP too lost deposit in over 20 divisions in Old City as both TRS and BJP candidates lost to MIM picks in Old City. The worst-hit was the Congress which contested from 146 wards and lost deposit in over 130 wards. Even the MIM lost deposits in a few wards in the rest of Hyderabad. However, a majority of candidates who lost their deposits were Independents. TDP, TJS, CPI, CPM and other recognised parties’ candidates too lost deposits. BJP chief spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao told TOI that the GHMC election saw the BJP dominate not just in Secunderabad and Cyberabad but also in Old City. In the seats which it has lost, the BJP came second. The BJP has lost deposits in fewer wards compared to TRS and Congress, he said. “Many Hindus have moved from Old City due to minority appeasement policy of the Congress, TDP and later the TRS. The BJP will do everything possible to ensure that Hindus are resettled in Old City. When BJP comes to power, the process of reversing the migration within Hyderabad will be taken up on a war footing,” Krishna Saagar Rao said. AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan emphasised the “urgent need for an institutional and ideological review” to reinvent and reposition the Congress party. “The revival will be fast if the Congress truly emerges as a party for complete social justice and provides political empowerment to suppressed classes particularly BCs who comprise over 50 per cent of the population in Telangana,” he said. TRS working president and Municipal minister KT Rama Rao, in a meeting with the corporators, told them not to look down upon party candidates who lost the elections. “They are important to regain lost ground in their respective wards,” he told them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/800-of-over-1100-candidates-lost-deposit-in-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79613607.cms||Roushan Ali
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: HC nod for declaring Neredmet ward result||HYDERABAD: In a relief to the State Election Commission, Justice A Abhishek Reddy of the high court on Monday allowed counting officials to treat all votes with distinguished mark as valid in Neredmet division during the recent GHMC election. The order will pave way for SEC to declare the winner in this ward now after counting the 544 disputed votes. The result of the ward could not be declared on account of the stay issued earlier by the judge when the issue of different marks on ballot papers was brought to the notice of the court by two petitioners — K Anthony Reddy and K Surender from BJP, expressing doubts on why different marks were there on the ballots instead of the regular swastika stamp that appears upon stamping by each voter. The SEC clarified that they made this arrangement consciously when they realised that a few staff from its office erroneously sent stamp sticks that had distinguished marks other than the official swastika. Senior counsel D Prakash Reddy, who appeared for the petitioners, argued that SEC travelled beyond its powers in asking the returning officers to treat all different votes as valid votes. The law gives the discretionary powers to the returning officers to take a call in such matters. SEC has no power to dictate to its returning or counting officers, he said. If the statute gives power to the returning officer, he or she alone should exercise it. SEC cannot ask them to exercise it in a particular fashion, the counsel said. Clarifying the stand of the SEC on the issue, senior counsel G Vidya Sagar said, “A voter’s decision conveyed though his vote is the most sacrosanct aspect in an electoral process. The job of the SEC is to preserve it and to see that its purity is not adversely affected in any form. What we did in this matter was precisely towards this aim. When we realised that one polling booth was supplied with stamp sticks that have other marks on them, instead of swastika mark, we asked the counting officials to treat votes with other marks too as valid because they too convey the intention of the voter. None in the system has got a right to undermine the decision of the voter when it was conveyed by him. He conveyed it through the stamp sticks given by us. It was not his mistake. We could not give him or her the right stamp. So, we cannot penalise the voter for the mistake committed by a few electoral staff,” Vidya Sagar said. The judge agreed with the SEC counsel and directed the officials to treat all different mark votes as valid and count them. The judge, however, did not agree with the SEC that courts cannot intervene in such matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-nod-for-declaring-neredmet-ward-result/articleshow/79613620.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Rahul Gandhi has no clue on how paddy grows: MP CM||HYDERABAD: Slamming Congress for its U-turn on the farm laws, Madhya Pradesh chief minister and BJP central board member Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday took potshots at former All India Congress Committee president Rahul Gandhi saying he does not even know how paddy is grown or if it is cultivated below the soil or above the soil. Addressing a press conference at the BJP state office here, Chouhan said UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Rahul Gandhi owe an answer to the nation as to why they are opposing the farm laws now. “When the UPA government was in power, it pushed for reforms by means of bringing amendments to the APMC Act. Now, the UPA is opposing the laws,” he said. Taking a serious objection to parties like TRS, AAP and DMK, he said: “No one knows why Arvind Kejriwal reacts. The legislation came into force last month and suddenly he is it opposing now. The DMK promised similar reforms but is now opposing them. The TRS is wary of BJP’s growth here.” Chouhan said the former UPA government had even constituted a committee for initiating agri reforms. “Now, the UPA’s hypocrisy and cheap politics is out in the open. The Congress boat is sinking and is unnecessarily making a hue and cry,” he said. Reading out a letter written by NCP leader Sharad Pawar who was Union agriculture minister in 2011 in the UPA government, he said: “This letter was written to me then. In the letter, Pawar was seeking support to make amendments to the APMC Act and for doing away with the Essential Commodities Act. Pawar said that there was a need for liberalising the process for selling agri produce to help farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rahul-has-no-clue-on-how-paddy-grows-mp-cm/articleshow/79613636.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers agitation cannot be dubbed as Sikh issue: Sikh Forum||JALANDHAR: Expressing solidarity with farmers’ protest and asking other civil society groups also to support it, Delhi-based Sikh Forum has said “the agitation cannot be and must not be dubbed as a Sikh issue”. “As we know, the current agitation was initiated by farmers from Punjab, who continue to be present in large numbers at the protest sites. The Punjabi farmers are also predominantly Sikhs. Some of the media channels have tried to mischievously present the farmers movement as a Sikh movement, equating or comparing it with the separatist Khalistan movement. This is very unfortunate and completely untrue. The agitation cannot and must not be dubbed as a Sikh issue,” the Sikh Forum president Pushpinder Singh Chopra and secretary general Partap Singh. Urging the central government to resolve the issue at the earliest in the spirit of democratic federalism, the Sikh Forum, appreciated the farmers for staying focused on questions of agriculture and appealed to them to watch out for any communal and lumpen elements trying to create mischief in the garb of agitators while also urging parts of media to avoid sensational reporting by equating the legitimate farmers’ movement as a communal mobilisation by the Sikhs. “Such a move can have serious consequences,” the Forum added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-agitation-cannot-be-dubbed-as-sikh-issue-sikh-forum/articleshow/79614704.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Patna||Buckle up! Rajgir zoo safari gets Centre’s nod||PATNA: Among the most visited tourist spots in Bihar, Rajgir will soon have an added attraction for visitors — a zoo safari in the hills. One of CM Nitish Kumar’s pet projects, the first-of-its-kind zoo safari in the state got the Central Zoo Authority’s nod on Monday. The CZA, which is headed by Union environment and forests minister Prakash Javadekar, had already given the technical clearance on November 19. Javadekar posted a tweet on Monday announcing that Rajgir Zoo Safari in Nalanda and Shaheed Ashfaque Ullah Khan Prani Udyaan in Gorakhpur have got CZA permission. The CM had visited Rajgir on November 30 to take stock of the progress of various projects, including the zoo safari and a new ropeway. He had said the work on zoo safari is progressing at a fast pace and will be ready soon. Dipak Kumar Singh, the state environment, forest and climate change additional chief secretary, said a CZA team inspected the site in October this year and in November it submitted the report to the technical committee of CZA. “On November 19, we got the nod from the technical committee, and on Monday, we got the recognition from the governing body. Very soon this zoo safari will be made fully functional,” Singh said. He informed that for a zoo to become functional, approval from the CZA is a must in three different fields —design and layout, permission as a zoo and permission for animal exchange. “We have got the nod in first two categories, and very soon we expect the go-ahead for animal exchange too,” Singh said. He further said the animal transfers would not take much effort as most of the animals will be shifted from Patna Zoo, barring a few from other zoos as part of the animal exchange programme. Officials said the construction work of this zoo safari spread over 480 acres is complete and its estimated cost is Rs 177 crore. This first-of-its-kind zoo safari in the state will have huge enclosures for animals to give them the feeling of being in a forest. Visitors, on the other hand, will be in closed vehicles. A total of five such enclosures spread over 50 to 80 acres are ready. While one of the paddocks will have herbivores, others will have leopards, tiger and lions. Apart from animal enclosures, there will be a butterfly garden and an aviary with varieties of birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buckle-up-rajgir-zoo-safari-gets-centres-nod/articleshow/79612942.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Rythu sum in ryots’ accounts from Dec 27: CM||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials to deposit Rythu Bandhu amount into farmers’ bank accounts between December 27 and January 7. He also asked the finance department to release Rs 7,300 crore for the scheme. The CM held a review meeting with the officials of agriculture and finance department on the Rythu Bandhu scheme on Monday. Generally, the state government releases the Rythu Bandhu amount in the month of November for Yasangi season. But, it got delayed due to Dubbak bypolls and also elections to the GHMC. “The assistance should begin with farmers, who have less holding of land like below five acres. For farmers having large extent of land holding, the amount should be released later,” the CM said. Officials said the assistance to the farmers got delayed due to financial constraints. About Rs 650 crore had been spent towards the flood relief assistance in Greater Hyderabad. The government had given option 1 to the Centre for availing GST amount and as a result, the government would get Rs 5,000 crore. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rythu-sum-in-ryots-accounts-from-dec-27-cm/articleshow/79613650.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Patna||RJD activist shot dead in Khagaria||PATNA: Tension gripped Alouli in Khagaria district following the killing of a close relative of an RJD functionary on Monday, a day after the murder of a JD(U) block functionary at Beldaur in the district. Police said Sujit Kumar alias Linkon Yadav (25), cousin of RJD district functionary Kumar Ranjan, was shot dead by criminals near Garhpar Ghat on the outskirts of Rampur village under the Alouli police station area in the district. The deceased was also an active member of RJD. Khagaria SP Amitesh Kumar said the reason behind the murder was yet to be ascertained. He, however, said Yadav’s family had an old rivalry with the relatives of a former JD(U) MLA. The family members of the deceased told the police that an altercation took place between the supporters of the two rival groups recently. Counter FIRs were lodged after a shootout, sources close to the family said. Meanwhile, a delegation of people’s representatives met the SP and demanded immediate arrest of those involved in the killing of JD(U) block vice-president Naresh Ram at Beldaur under the same police station area in the district. Ram, a former panchayat member, was attacked when he had gone for morning walk on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-activist-shot-dead-in-khagaria/articleshow/79612761.cms||Ramashankar
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Divorced woman hangs self in Tonk, police begin probe||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old divorced woman committed suicide in Tonk on Monday morning apparently due to a love affair gone wrong. The woman hung herself in her room though she left behind no suicide note. The deceased was identified as Puja Saini. “The victim left behind no suicide note, but the family claimed that after her divorce she was in a relationship with someone else who she used to talk to regularly on phone, but they have not specified if it was the reason due to which she committed suicide,” said an official of Tonk Kotwali. According to officials, on Monday around 10am, the woman went to her room and hung herself from the fan using a sari. Elaborating further on the investigation, the official said, “The family claimed that it all happened very quickly. The deceased was sitting with them and suddenly she went to her room where she killed herself.” The officials claimed that they are looking at all possibilities including the role of the woman’s ex-husband and will also check her mobile phone details to get more leads from her messages as well as call records to ascertain the reason behind Puja taking this extreme step. Sources claimed that the person with whom she was apparently in a relationship with was allegedly blackmailing her using their personal photographs though the cops did not confirm it. “The woman lived with her widowed mother and siblings, but at present they are still in a state of shock. They are yet to lodge a case against any person and have not even been able to give the details of the person that the woman was apparently in a relationship with. We will proceed with the investigation as and when more details emerge,” said the official. The suicide victim’s body was handed over to the family after post-mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/divorced-woman-hangs-self-in-tonk-police-begin-probe/articleshow/79614728.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Repolling takes place at 4 polling booths in 2 districts||JAIPUR: Repolling took place at four polling stations in two districts — Jhunjhunu and Bundi — on Monday as some technical glitches occurred on the polling day, December 5. The counting of votes for all the phases will be held on Tuesday. In all, 63.83 per cent voters exercised their franchise in the fourth phase, 63.80 in the third phase of elections, 63.18 per cent in the second and 61.80 in the first phase. Overall, 63 per cent turnout was recorded in all the four phases. “In Bundi, the voters whose names were deleted had voted. Hence re-polling had to be done. In Jhunjhunu, there was an issue with the voters’ list,” said a state election commission official. MoU signed between RSLDC and RKCL: The Rajasthan Skill and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Rajasthan Knowledge Corporation Limited (RKCL) with the objective of imparting soft-skill training to the youths in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/repolling-takes-place-at-4-polling-booths-in-2-dists/articleshow/79614725.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Caged leopard rescued in Dehradun; another radio-collared in Haridwar||Dehradun: The forest department of Uttarakhand rescued a three-year-old female leopard from the Jhajra area of Dehradun on Monday afternoon. The leopard was already trapped in a cage and the forest department suspects that it was trapped by poachers. “The cat was stuck in the cage. Poachers might have installed the cage to catch it or to secure jackal’s bushmeat. We are still trying to find out the actual reason behind this,” said one of the officials from Dehradun forest division who was involved in the exercise. According to the locals, the owners of that farmland informed the forest department about the caged leopardess after which it swung into action to rescue it. Meanwhile, another leopard, five-year-old, was radio-collared during the ongoing exercise of the forest department to track active big cats in the human landscape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/caged-leopard-rescued-in-dehradun-another-radio-collared-in-haridwar/articleshow/79612614.cms||Shivani Azad
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Peddlers caught with 89kg ganja get 10-year jail||Nagpur: Special district judge SJ Bharuka on Monday sentenced two persons — Venkatkumar Raman alias Raja Narayan Singh and Sushilkumar Chanda — to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs1 lakh each after holding them guilty for illegal possession of ganja (marijuana). Raman and Chanda were arrested by special cell of crime branch on October 9 in 2016 after they were found in possession of 89kg ganja worth Rs8.93 lakh. Police had also seized two mobile phones and cash Rs2,000 from the two. An offence was registered against the two at Hingna police station. During investigation, names of one Rushi Mittal alias Kesar Agrawal and Pritam Khute alias P Bos had also surfaced but they could not be arrested. The court had issued order to file supplementary charge sheet against them. Constables Raju Dahake and Namdeorao Padole had worked as court coordinators, while additional public prosecutor Madan Sesad represented the prosecution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/peddlers-caught-with-89kg-ganja-get-10-year-jail/articleshow/79614732.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Custodial death: 50-year-old UP farmer detained after brawl dies||BAREILLY: A 50-year-old farmer in UP, who was detained along with three others after a brawl over construction work on a disputed property, reportedly died in police custody on Sunday evening. His family alleged foul play while the cops denied the charges. Deceased Vidyaram Yadav's son, Arjun Yadav, said, “My father was thrashed in police custody. The other party had bribed the cops. Police are equally responsible.” The police, however, said that they did not detain him and he was taken away by cops only to register his complaint. According to police, he was taken to a community health centre and they even claimed that autopsy shows there were no external injury marks and he may have died of a heart attack. Notably, the postmortem was conducted on Monday and the exact reason of death could not be established yet, sources said. So, the viscera was "preserved for further lab tests" by doctors. The incident took place at Dariyapur village in the Mujaria area of Budaun district. An FIR has been registered against Pratap, Ajab Singh, Jitendra Durgesh and Netrapal under IPC sections 304 (culpable homicide) and 147 (rioting). Sources said it all started when the other party refused to allow Vidyaram to use a Chak Road to reach his farm. Ajab Singh, the village head's husband, reportedly used his clout and told Vidyaram to take another route. Soon, the heated argument took an ugly turn and Netrapal, who was with his wife, was allegedly thrashed. A Dial 112 team arrived and took both the parties along. It was then that Vidyaram was thrashed by cops, according to his son, and was not immediately taken to a doctor. However, Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “The victim was taken to a health centre in Bilsi. He had chest pain before reaching the police station. After initial treatment, he was referred to the district hospital where the doctor declared him as brought dead. The autopsy shows he may have died of a heart attack. Doctors have preserved the viscera.” “Prima facie we couldn’t find fault with any official on duty. We have booked five other individuals. Two of them have been arrested," the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/custodial-death-50-year-old-up-farmer-detained-after-brawl-dies/articleshow/79611828.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Brand cotton grown in Telangana: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the officials to build a brand image for the cotton produced in Telangana. He said the cotton produced in Telangana is of a very high quality, lengthiest and its hardness is top quality in the country. He also said a strategy should be worked out to give publicity to the special qualities of the cotton grown in the state and asked the agriculture department to hold a conference with experts and specialists on getting a brand image for the cotton and improving the global demand. He said farmers should be trained on how to clean the cotton picked from the fields, package it and increase the demand internationally. “Telangana is the second state in the country where cotton is grown in 60 lakh acres. Cotton has a good market both in the country and internationally. Cotton yields are good when it is cultivated through irrigated water. Since many projects are constructed in the state, there is adequate availability of water for irrigation. If cotton is grown under the canals, it would be beneficial,” KCR said. He said the government would take more measures to get demand for the cotton in the market. Before the formation of Telangana state, there were only 60 ginning mills, which have now gone up to 300. “Necessary arrangements are made to set up ginning mills in areas where cotton is grown on a large scale,” the CM said. Meanwhile, the CM said oil palm growers would be given 50% subsidy to encourage cultivation of oil palm in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brand-cotton-grown-in-t-cm/articleshow/79613666.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Meerut||145 swamp deer spotted in Bijnor’s 30km khadar stretch||BIJNOR: Forest department has set up a temporary picket in the marshy khadar area here to keep an eye on poachers as close to 145 swamp deer have been spotted there. The forest guards will also check illegal fishing and farming in the area. The 30-km stretch of the khadar area, between Ganga barrage and Balawali, is a wildlife corridor linking UP's Hastinapur Wildlife sanctuary and Rajaji National Park in Uttarakhand. During the monsoon season, the deer comes down to the plains from the hills. A large number of swamp deer have been spotted in Jhilmil area. The swamp deer is listed as “vulnerable” in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (ICUN) Red list. M Semmaran, Bijnor forest divisional officer, said, “At present, we have recorded 145 swamp deer in Ravali khadar area. Their sightings are common here. I hope their number will increase.” The swamp deer’s presence is being attributed to better vigilance by the foresters. Earlier, farmers, especially those indulging in illegal farming in the khadar area, were known to scare the animals away. The picket will ensure that this does not happen. The DFO said, “We have set up a picket inside khadar area to keep a strict vigil on poachers and people indulging in agriculture activities on government land. It is aimed at providing a safe environment to swamp deer. We have deployed four staff at the picket. Besides, we have activated informers in areas along river Ganga and other water bodies."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/145-swamp-deer-spotted-in-bijnors-30km-khadar-stretch/articleshow/79611274.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||DMC to collect commercial property tax from new wards||Dehradun: The Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has prepared a detailed plan to collect commercial property tax from business owners in the 32 newly-added wards of the district. The officials have also finalised the rate of commercial property tax depending on parameters like the width of the road outside the establishment and type of construction. The rates for levying the commercial property tax have been broadly described under two categories — where the road is less than 12 meter wide and where the road is more than 24 meter wide. In 2018, 72 villages were added to the municipal limits of the city which formed 32 news wards. The state government had recently released a notification exempting the house owners from paying house tax. However, the commercial property owners were not included in the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-to-collect-commercial-property-tax-from-new-wards/articleshow/79612625.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi: Will file petition against KCR||Hyderabad: BJP state president Bandi Sanjay on Monday said the party has “kept track of the corruption of TRS regime” and will file a petition against Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. Interacting with mediapersons informally in New Delhi, he said the BJP would expose corrupt MLAs and ministers of the TRS regime. “We will agitate against stopping of registrations and defects in layout and building registration scheme,” he said. Sanjay also came down heavily on TNGO leaders. “Who are they to participate in farmers protests? Instead of talking about issues of employees, they are touching the feet of CM KCR,” he said. They are making political statements too, he added. He asked why the chief minister was mum on farmers’ insurance. Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh CM and BJP central board member Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday said his Telangana counterpart K Chandrasekhar Rao has woken up from slumber to support the Bharat bandh. “The TRS is suddenly opposing the farm laws while it remained silent till recently. Where was KCR all these days,” he asked. He alleged that the TRS is supporting the bandh only after it got wary of BJP’s rising popularity in the wake of Dubbak and GHMC election wins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-will-file-petition-against-kcr/articleshow/79613680.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Visit constituency, advertise achievements: Nadda tells state ministers||Dehradun: On the last day of his Uttarakhand visit on Monday, BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Monday chaired the meeting of the party's core committee and state cabinet ministers. During the meeting, Nadda instructed the ministers to ensure more night stays in their respective constituencies adding that he will be taking feedback from them in the next 20 days. According to party functionaries, Nadda has suggested at least three days of constituency visit to each minister. These visits should involve taking feedback from local BJP workers, residents, and also publicising achievements of the central and the state governments, and having lunch at the homes of local workers. BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat, who was also present in party’s core committee meeting, said that the party will be holding its last core committee meeting for the ongoing year on December 26 and the briefing of the meet will be shared with Nadda. “Our meeting was very productive as the national president was happy with the performance of the party workers in the state. He also appreciated the works undertaken by the state government. During the meet, he suggested ministers to ensure more night stays in their constituencies,” said Bhagat. “While senior office bearers will accompany other ministers in their constituency visit, I will go with the chief minister,” he added. Another minister present in the meeting told TOI, “The national president has directed the ministers to visit their constituencies with powerpoint presentations and advertise the achievements of schemes like Jan Dhan, Ayushman Bharat, Saubhagya Scheme, Greeb Kalyan Yojana, among others.” The issue of disputes between some party MLAs and the state government was also discussed during the meeting. “Nadda asked Bansidhar Bhagat to hold talks and resolve such issues at the earliest,” added the minister. Meanwhile, it has also been learnt that cabinet minister Madan Kaushik and minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat held presentations on the achievements of the state and the central government during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/visit-constituency-advertise-achievements-nadda-tells-state-ministers/articleshow/79612627.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP only alternative to TRS in Telangana: Vijayashanti||HYDERABAD: After Khushbu Sundar from Tamil Nadu, Vijayashanti became the second actress from Congress to join the BJP. After joining the party in the presence of party’s national general secretary Arun Singh in Delhi on Monday, Vijayashanti said BJP is the only alternative to the TRS in Telangana. Popularly known as ‘Ramulamma’ and ‘Lady Amitabh’ for the variety of roles she had essayed in her long film career, Vijayashanti had kept a low profile in the last 2-3 years while in the Congress. Addressing reporters along with Arun Singh, she said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao removed her from the TRS on the day statehood was announced for Telangana. “I quit the BJP for some reasons. I always fought for Telangana. When KCR insisted, I had to merge Talli Telangana Party with the TRS,” she said. Expressing confidence that the BJP will win the next assembly election in Telangana, she said the only the BJP can fight the TRS government. She said Dubbak and GHMC poll results had given impetus to the party to strongly challenge the TRS in its own turf. “We will expose the ‘anti-people’ regime of TRS.” On her role in the BJP, she said: “It will be decided by the party leadership. I am ready to campaign anywhere. Vijayashanti rejoining the party was only a formality as she met Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday and BJP national president JP Nadda in Hyderabad during his campaign for GHMC polls. Her return to the BJP is significant as the saffron party is eyeing to oust the TRS at the hustings in 2023 assembly elections. While campaigning for the Congress in 2019 parliamentary elections, she compared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to a terrorist and a dictator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-only-alternative-to-trs-vijayashanti/articleshow/79613707.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Move to transplant 35 exotic trees from OMR draws flak||CHENNAI: The decision to transplant 35 exotic trees from the Rajiv Gandhi Expressway (OMR), to make way for two flyovers, has drawn flak from experts, who fear they may not survive. A senior official of the Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC) said there was no room for fear as a team of horti-agri experts was in charge of the transplant. Twenty small trees, 10 of which have been uprooted, will be moved from the pavement before MRTS Thiruvanmiyur station to a location 1km away. The others, each more than 20 years old and with a girth of more than a metre, will be shifted to the Weaving Technology Institute campus, barely 200 metres away. “We are confident they will survive,” he said. The 20 Indian almond (Sterculia foetida) trees and 15 raintrees (Samanea saman) are shallow rooted and cannot survive when transplanted, say experts. D Narasimhan, a retired botany professor, said only those with a girth of less than half a metre can survive. “The machinery and expertise required is not available adequately in the state,” he said. While laying OMR, a landscape expert said, the TNRDC uprooted more than 1,200 trees between Madhya Kailash and Sholinganallur and promised to transplant them in various institutions on the CPT campus, Taramani. None of them survived, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/move-to-transplant-35-exotic-trees-from-omr-draws-flak/articleshow/79613997.cms||P Oppili
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Matrimony fraud as lockdown timepass lands ‘groom’ in cop net||Nagpur: Mickey Singh Sahni, 38, who also posed as Romi Arora and Rimpy Khanduja, would allegedly befriend women registered on matrimonial sites posing as a prospective groom and later flee with their valuables and cash from hotel rooms where he would invite them to spend some time together. A lockdown timepass for this divorcee subsequently turned him into a fraudster before landing in city police net for duping women in November. Sahni’s arrest saved nearly eight women from Nagpur with whom he would regularly chat and try to meet them. Police said Sahni had duped women in Jabalpur and Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. In police custody, he has admitted to having duped four women, but police have so far received only two complaints. Around 100 women were being sorted out by Sahni as his targets from three matrimonial sites. Sahni, along with one Anand Sahu, was arrested from Beitul in Madhya Pradesh on December 5 after being trapped by a joint team of Sonegaon and Rana Pratap Nagar police under the supervision of Zonal DCP Noorul Hasan, additional CPs Dilip Zalke and Sunil Phulari. Sahu had helped Sahni prepare three Aadhaar cards to create bogus accounts. Sahni, belonging to a reputed family from Beitul, is a divorcee having a son and was in dire need of money after elder brother had distanced him from family business. It’s learnt Sahni’s family owned liquor business in the US, but he had fallen out of his brother’s favour following dispute. As of now, two FIRs have been lodged against Sahni at Rana Pratap Nagar (November 30) and Sonegaon police stations (also on November 30) after his victims approached the cops. Sahni had invited the women to hotels where he was staying and had fled with their valuables, including ATM cards, after spending some time with them. Hasan, flanked by senior inspector Dileep Magar and sub-inspector TM Dhakulkar of Sonegaon police station, during a press meet at Police Gymkhana, said valuables worth over Rs7.08 lakh (cash Rs1.83 lakh, 17gm gold ornaments, seven mobiles, two bikes, a fridge etc) have been recovered from the accused. “We had received a complaint of a woman from Uttar Pradesh and another from West Bengal stating that they were robbed at city hotels by Sahni,” he said. Hasan said CCTV footage from the hotels and roads were procured to trace the movement of Sahni. “We had spotted Sahni taking a cab in one of the footages. After tracing out the cab, we managed to get Sahni’s mobile number and other details,” said the DCP. MODUS OPERANDI The accused would pose as prospective groom to befriend women registered on matrimonial sites After winning their confidence, the accused would invite these women to hotel After spending time, the accused would sneak out on some or the other pretext with their valuables||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/matrimony-fraud-as-lockdown-timepass-lands-groom-in-cop-net/articleshow/79614780.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 8, 2020||Trichy||Mosquito menace on the rise in Trichy city||Trichy: Moderate rainfall in the past two weeks in Trichy has increased mosquito menace due to water stagnation in various spots. Residents rued the lack of periodical fogging drive and other dedicated measures usually carried out out during the monsoon season for the menace. In addition, the lack of proper stormwater drains is making rainwater drained to vacant plots where its gets stagnated and serve as a breeding ground for the mosquitoes. Usually, the corporation initiates anti-mosquito drive from the last week of September, but Covid-19 preventive work overshadowed the preparations. Locals in all four zones complained that the fogging was not carried out in their localities. Bharathi Nagar that falls under K Abishekapuram zone and Thiruverumbur under both Ponmalai and Ariyamangalam zones were the worst affected localities. “We are trying to reach the owners of neighbouring vacant plots to fill the land with debris, but in vain. At least the corporation should do something to alleviate our sufferings as it collects vacant land tax,” S Stephen, a resident of Bharathi Nagar said. “We are carrying out fogging in the areas where complaints were received,” an official with sanitary department said. However, sources in the civic body said that dedicated fogging drive in all the 65 wards is not launched yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mosquito-menace-on-the-rise-in-trichy-city/articleshow/79614756.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Amritsar||Nation united against agri laws: SGPC chief||AMRITSAR: Accusing the Narendra Modi-led central government for ignoring the interests of farmers, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur claimed the entire nation was up against the recently introduced farm laws. The Center didn’t seem concerned about the “unrest among farmers which had spilled on roads due to its apathetic attitude”, she alleged. On Monday, SGPC held ‘ardas samagam’ in all the historic gurdwaras for the success of the agitation and ‘chardi kala’ (high esteem) of farmers. Kaur said voices of support to the farmers had also emerged from various countries like Canada, the US and the UK. She hailed the role of Punjabis in the protests. The SGPC even went on to advise the PM not to follow Hitler’s policy. While reiterating that all the offices of SGPC would remain closed on Tuesday to express solidarity with farmers, she appealed to the Centre to listen to the voice of the farmers and repeal the recently introduced agri laws. “The SGPC has prayed to Guru Sahib for farmers’ agitation. The voice of truth is being raised by farmers with courage, fortitude and bravery and is guided by the Sikh history,” she said. Kaur said SGPC had dispatched portable lavatories and bathrooms for the women protesters. Meanwhile, Gurdwara Singh Sabha, Hangu, near Saragarhi on Pakistan-Afghan border, announced it held a ‘ardas samagam’ and offered prayers for the ‘chardi kala’ of the farmers of India . “I don’t know much about the new agriculture laws introduced in India but there must be something detrimental due to which the farmers have taken to roads,” the gurdwara chairman said. Other bodies back bandhMeanwhile various organisations have extended support to the bandh call. Jasbir Singh of Physically Handicapped Association led a group to farmers on dharna near a private shopping mall and announced to back the protest. Sikh Forum president Pushpinder Singh Chopra also extended support and said, “It must be appreciated that farmers have not allowed any political party to take advantage of their genuine concerns,” said he. Private Transport Workers Union president Dilbagh Singh said they were with the cause of farmers as “its trickling effect would be felt by everyone including small-time businessmen”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nation-united-against-agri-laws-sgpc-chief/articleshow/79614757.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Five poachers sent to judicial custody||Dehradun: The forest team of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve nabbed five poachers on Sunday, who were presented before the court in Joshimath on Monday. All five poachers, including daily wagers from Nepal, were sent to fourteen days of judicial custody. They were caught from a reserved forest area of Karok area of Lata village. Vijay Lal Arya, the forest authority in Karok area, said that all the five men were found in possession of body parts of musk deers and blue sheeps along with other equipment which they used for poaching. A case has been lodged against them under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/five-poachers-sent-to-judicial-custody/articleshow/79612642.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||New Town Coffee House a smash hit, over 2k turn up in three days||Kolkata: The New Town Coffee House that was inaugurated last Thursday has become an instant hit with locals. More than 2,000 people visited the coffee house in the last three days while the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) is coming up with plans to draw more people. Hidco officials said many visitors are thronging the 96-seater coffee house and the authorities have put up 150 chairs outside to ensure that visitors don’t have to stand while waiting for their turn to enter the building. Now the closing time of the coffee house is 7pm and many visitors, who don’t get a chance to enter even after a wait, are visiting on another day. The coffee house is open every day from noon to 7pm, except Mondays. On Friday, 623 people visited the coffee house while footfalls were 692 on Saturday and 729 on Sunday. Following the demand, the authorities are receiving suggestions from people like adding more items to the menu, extending the closing time, introducing music and band performance, starting book shops inside the coffee house and allowing shooting for films. Currently, apart from having coffee and food, people can visit an outlet of the New Town Library with a small book corner on the premises of the coffee house. Hidco has also started electric bus services from Rabindra Tirtha junction to the coffee house. “Location markers have been put in the Google Map and direction signs have been installed on the road junctions,” said an official. Those, who have already visited the coffee house, are eager to come back there again. “The ambience is excellent and the architecture of the building is stunning. I paid a visit to the coffee house on the opening day and want to go there again,” Sutapa Majumder, a resident of New Town. “We could not go to the new coffee house till now. We are planning to visit the place in the coming weekend,” said Subho Dasgupta, another resident of the township.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-coffee-house-a-smash-hit-over-2k-turn-up-in-three-days/articleshow/79613768.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Tiger translocation from CTR to Rajaji delayed by a week||Dehradun: The first ever inter-tiger reserve translocation was planned for this week but has been delayed up to December 15 due to some gaps in the plan. Sources privy to the exercise toldTOI that a team of experts from Wildlife Institute of India (WII) had inspected the spots on Saturday and suggested some improvements. An official involved in the process, who didn’t want to be named, said, “The WII had inspected the site and identified some gaps. Experts pointed out several things that could use improvement, starting from the vehicles in which the tigers will be carried, the cages where they will be kept, to the place they will be taken to. The improvements are expected to take around a week.” Meanwhile, chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said it was the unavailability of the right kind of radio collars that had put the process on hold. “We need a different kind of radio collar for the process. We expect to receive them between December 10 and 15. Only after that will we be able to translocate the tigers,” Suhag told TOI. According to the translocation plan, five tigers from Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) will be shifted to Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR). The latter has only two tigresses, both around 20 years of age. The plan to populate western part of the RTR with more tigers from neighbouring CTR has been in the pipeline for many years now but has not been executed yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-translocation-from-ctr-to-rajaji-delayed-by-a-week/articleshow/79612641.cms||Shivani Azad
December 8, 2020||Chandigarh||En route to border protest, car falls into canal, youth missing||Karnal: A youth was washed away and another sustained minor injury after the car they were travelling in fell into a canal near Sewah village of Panipat district on Sunday night. Yadvinder Singh, who was driving the car, said they were going to Delhi border to join the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three contentious agri-marketing laws. When they reached Sewah village, he lost control while taking a turn on the bridge and the vehicle fell into the canal. Yadvinder said he and his friend Gurkaran managed to come out from the canal, but Jaspreet (18) was swept away. All three are from Kaithal. The accident happened around 10pm. A rescue operation was on to look for the mCarissing man when this report was filed. Narender, SHO, Israna police station said they received a call about the accident following which a police team reached the spot and initiated a rescue operation. “We are trying to trace the third youth with the help of divers,” the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/en-route-to-border-protest-car-falls-into-canal-youth-missing/articleshow/79614784.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Trichy||Locals against nod for new shops in Central bus stand||Trichy: The decision to facilitate new standalone commercial stalls at the congested Central terminus has upset locals, who say that existing stalls and temporary encroachments are already choking public movement. They have urged the civic body not to provide fresh permissions.The appeal comes after the Trichy Corporation permitted the opening of a new Aavin parlour near the Pudukottai bus bay. Already, there are more than 60 shops in the bus stand in addition to temporary encroachments in the bus bays and near entrances which choke movement on Royal Road, VOC Road and Williams Road. As the new shop is positioned close to the platform, facilitating new shops inside the terminus will only aggravate the congestion. “The new outlet has come in the place where passengers disembark. Such a move will only make the situation worse,” M Sekaran, member, road safety council said. Sources in the corporation maintained that permission for the shop was accorded several months ago. “We have no plans to facilitate permission for new shops in the bus stand. Encroachments will be identified and removed,” a corporation official said. Residents said the decision to add new shops inside the Central bus stand only shows that apathy of authorities in shifting the terminus outside the city, which is their key demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-against-nod-for-new-shops-in-central-bus-stand/articleshow/79614783.cms||Deepak Karthik
December 8, 2020||Chandigarh||Message from Tikri: We are farmers, not terrorists||Tikri border (Jhajjar): About 380 kilometres away from his hometown, Muktsar in Punjab, Gursewak Singh who cultivates 12 acres of agricultural land, is among the several protesters camping on the Delhi-Haryana border. Gursewak, 40, refuses to budge from the protest site till the Centre gives a written guarantee of rolling back the three recently enacted agriculture laws whoch have triggered countrywide protests. “If a farmer of 12 acres like me is facing back-to-back losses in agriculture, imagine the plight of small farmers who don’t have enough resources at hand. Now, there is also the fear of losing MSP,” he added. He also accused the Centre of not listening to their demands patiently and of playing politics with them by dubbing them as “terrorists” or “Khalistanis”. “My elder brother was in the Army and he fought the 1999 Kargil war. He sustained bullet injuries for the country and now I am protesting on the roads. How can you call me a Khalistani?” he said. “Our agitation was only for saving our ‘fasal aur nasal’ (crops and future generations),” he added. Gursewak is not the only one feeling anguished on farmers being called Khalistanis. Echoing similar sentiments, 60-year-old Baljeet Kaur from Mansa district said had their intentions been any different than the repeal of three agri laws, they would not have come with their women and children. “Six women have come from my village and we are camping in one trolley. For elderly women like me, even climbing up and down a trolley is a herculean task. Our joints are paining. The toilets are a problem, but we are here for making a last attempt to save agriculture from dying,” she said. Banners and posters hanging on trollies of farmers queued up from Bahadurgarh to Tikri border stretch say it loud and clear: “We are not terrorists. We are farmers.” There are no restrictions on anyone entering the protest venue. Jawans of paramilitary forces deployed there and Haryana Police officials are seen mingling easily with protesters and accepting their langars.  ‘More important than Covid’ Gurpreet Singh, who came from Bathinda and has been camping on the Tikri border since November 28, said they were not worried about coronavirus. He said eight of them had been staying and sleeping in one trolley all these days. “Before this, we were camping in Punjab for three months and none of us ever had any symptoms of coronavirus,” he said. Admitting that norms like social distancing and masks cannot be followed in the agitation, he said there are teams of doctors to take care of them. “There is no restriction on any farmer to go back if they start any symptoms of virus, but right now saving agriculture is more important than anything else,” he added. Hardeep Singh, who has set up medical camp here, said they came from Sunam in Punjab to offer free service to the agitating farmers. “We are receiving patients with complaints of joint pain, blood sugar, acidity, itching in the throat, and they are given medicines at our counter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/message-from-tikri-we-are-farmers-not-terrorists/articleshow/79614818.cms||Sat Singh
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||‘Small houses don’t need civic nod anymore’||Nagpur: The real estate sector, which was badly hit by the Covid lockdown, is happy with the unified Development Control Rules (DCR) notified by the state government. Builders have thanked the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for the document, which they believe would give a boost to the sector. Mahesh Sadhwani of Credai said that plots up to 150 sq m had been classified as low risk category and those from 150 sq m to 300 sq m as moderate risk category. “If you want to build houses on such plots then you need only certificate from an architect. You don’t need sanction of municipal bodies anymore,” he added. “There is a provision of 50% premium floor to space index (FSI) on roads of 9 metre and above. The compulsion for balcony, terrace etc has been removed. Earlier, the demand had to be paid in one go. Now, for demands above Rs50 lakh, you can avail instalments by paying 8.5% interest,” said Sadhwani. Builder TS Renu said that parking problems faced by small plot owners had been taken care of. “As of now no parking is required for plots up to 100 sq m and in case of independent single family residential bungalows having plot area up to 300 sq m. Parking space will not be insisted separately,” he added. Renu expressed concern over rise in development charges for building plan sanction. “Over the period it has risen drastically and now has become literally 5 to 10% of the total construction cost,” he said. Builder Shravan Kukreja hailed the new DCR and said that grey areas had been removed with explanatory maps. “Earlier, it took between six months and one year for a building plan sanction. This DCR is so user friendly that even a layman can now apply,” he said. “The government has increased premium FSI and reduced side margins. This is beneficial for end users as there will be no illegal constructions. The recreation floor has not been included in FSI and this will give a boost to high end housing. Earlier, club house, swimming pool etc was to be approved by the municipal commissioner. Now the DCR has approved them,” said Kukreja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/small-houses-dont-need-civic-nod-anymore/articleshow/79614807.cms||Ashish Roy
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Four youths sodomise ‘friend’ in Barmer district||JAISALMER: Four persons sodomised their ‘friend’ in Chauhatan area in Barmer district. A youth of Dhanau village gave a report at the police station that four youths, after making him drink liquor, kidnapped him from outside his house and had unnatural sex with him. Police have lodged a case under section 377 and arrested them.  Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that a youth from Dhanau lodged a case that at around 11pm, when he was standing outside his house, Mukesh, Kamlesh, Vasudev and Sunil came and took him forcibly in a car on Itada Road, where they forced him to consume liquor and beat him up. Later, they tore his clothes and took turns to sodomise him. He further said that hearing his cries, the neighbours came and saved him. The accused were inquired wherein they said that all five of them were ‘friends’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-youths-sodomise-friend-in-barmer-dist/articleshow/79614789.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Police start probe into RTI activist Pankaj Lamba death||Haridwar: Local police have begun a probe into the death of Pankaj Lamba, the RTI activist who first highlighted the multi-crore SC/ST scholarship scam. This comes after the family members of Lamba on Sunday lodged an FIR in connection with the death alleging that his murder was made to look like a case of accidental firing. Earlier on December 5, he was killed in a freak accident in which a 16-year-old girl ‘accidentally’ fired a shot at him from the activist's own pistol. The police officials have said that they have sent all the forensic evidence collected from the crime scene for testing. The investigation team also questioned prime accused (according to the complaint) Kasim and Manav and two other minor girls, who were present in the room at the time of the accident. Their statements have been recorded by the investigation officer. On the other hand, police also sought help from surveillance experts to examine the call details of the four persons, including the two accused. SHO Ranipur police station Yogesh Dev told TOI, “Four persons, including two minor sisters, were present in the room at the time of accident and we recreated the scene. Also, we questioned all of them and their statements have been recorded. We are also examining their call details and CCTVs. Further investigation is underway and action will be taken after the forensic report comes in.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-start-probe-into-rti-activist-pankaj-lamba-death/articleshow/79612646.cms||MS Nawaz
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Mussoorie Mountain Festival, a three-day event celebrating the diversity of the Himalayas, kicked off in an online version on Monday||Mussoorie: Mussoorie mountain festival 2020 started on Monday evening. The three-day festival, which is being held in virtual mode, will feature a series of musical and cultural performances, compilation of recorded talks, readings, interviews and short films. The event started with a folksong from Nagaland performed by the Tetseo Sisters. This was followed by a conversation between British mountaineer Sir Chris Bonington and Harish Kapadia. Bonington, a renowned mountaineer from United Kingdom, described how he began climbing and ultimately went on to lead successful expeditions to the South Face of Annapurna and the Southwest Face of Everest. Janaki Lenin spoke about bar-headed geese that migrate across the Himalaya. Dr Rodney Jackson, an expert on wild snow leopards, spoke about researching and conserving the endangered felines. Author Namita Gokhala talked about what being a Himalayan writer is like. The festival will be released on a YouTube channel of Hanifl Centre of Woodstock school in Mussoorie. Founded in 2005, the festival seeks to encompass all aspects of mountain culture, art and natural history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/mussoorie-mountain-festival-a-three-day-event-celebrating-the-diversity-of-the-himalayas-kicked-off-in-an-online-version-on-monday/articleshow/79612653.cms||Anmol Jain
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Lt Gen SK Saini to review POP at IMA||Dehradun: Lieutenant General SK Saini, vice chief of Army staff, will review the passing out parade scheduled for December 12, at the Indian Military Academy. Confirming this, Lieutenant Colonel Himani Pant, public relations officer (PRO) of IMA, said that the reviewing officer will also address the passing out officers. This time, the IMA has allowed only two family members with each passing out cadet. Also, the family members will have to come with their Covid-19 negative report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lt-gen-sk-saini-to-review-pop-at-ima/articleshow/79612659.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI CAP: Many colleges rue online payment only diktat||Nagpur: State education department’s diktat to collect Std XI admission fee only through online mode has not gone down well with local colleges. Many colleges either don’t have such a facility, while in some it’s not functional. Std XI admissions are done online in Nagpur through the state government’s Common Admission Procedure (CAP). It is mandatory for all city junior colleges to participate in the CAP. State’s education director Dattatray Jagtap had issued the admission timetable last month, and one of the things mentioned was about payment mode. The statement said, “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect fee only through digital payment mode”. This was done to ensure that crowding does not occur on college campuses. But many city colleges say they do not have such facilities available, and sometimes even parents prefer to deposit a cheque. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA), said, “It should not have been made mandatory to use the online payment mode. We have so many Hindi and Marathi colleges that are not equipped with that kind of digital infrastructure. Taking payment through e-wallets will mean tracking and collating data, something that adds burden on our staff. Sudden decisions like these must be avoided by the department.” He added that anyway the parent/student will have to come to campus for submitting transfer certificate. “We do not confirm admission without the original transfer certificate (TC). The hard copy has to be submitted in college and for that either parent/student or guardian will have to visit,” said Gavhankar. He also added that many parents are not comfortable with online payment. “Unless they give cheque and get a receipt from the counter, they don’t feel psychologically convinced that the job is done. All these things need to be considered whenever education department takes a decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-cap-many-colleges-rue-online-payment-only-diktat/articleshow/79614845.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 8, 2020||Chandigarh||National award winning filmmaker to return award||Bathinda: Noted Punjabi documentary filmmaker Rajeev Kumar on Monday announced to return national award given to his film ‘Nabar’ in 2014. Kumar, who belongs to Mullanpur Dakha town of Punjab, made the announcement at Tikri border, saying: “For all Punjabis, the interests of farmers are of paramount importance. It is a farmer who works hard to make the country not only self-sufficient but surplus in food grains. Now the central government is targeting them (farmers) to benefit corporates. No one should stay away from opposing this anti-farmer and anti-people action. I have decided to return the national award to my film.” Kumar has made films on farmers and farm labourers, depicting their misery. His films ‘Siri’ and ‘Chamm’ have been screened in various countries, including prestigious Cannes film festival in France. Of late, both the films have been shown at a protests across Punjab before these move to Delhi borders. These films are part and parcel of the lives of underprivileged and will be screening across the state to ensure unity among the sections, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/national-award-winning-filmmaker-to-return-award/articleshow/79614860.cms||Neel Kamal
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Girl held for cheating in Delhi police constable competitive exam in Haridwar||Haridwar: A 22-year-old girl has been arrested by the Haridwar police in connection with cheating in a competitive exam by using Bluetooth devices for the post of Delhi police constable, held by the Staff Selection Commission on Monday. A case has been registered against the girl, identified as Sonipat-resident Rajni, under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. SHO Kankhal police station Shankar Singh Bisht told TOI, “The girl was using a bluetooth device for cheating and a flying squad spotted her in the exam room. She was arrested and further investigation is underway.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/girl-held-for-cheating-in-delhi-police-constable-competitive-exam-in-haridwar/articleshow/79612651.cms||MS Nawaz
December 8, 2020||Kochi||Invasive ‘pink bloom’ to affect ecosystem in Kozhikode district||THRISSUR: The ‘pink-bloom’ phenomenon of Cabombafurcata in Avalappandi canal, Kuttiyottu Nada in Kozhikode district, will affect the ecosystem, said a field study by Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI). The survey was led by KFRI senior principal scientist Dr T V Sajeev. The photos of the ‘pink-bloom’ that went viral on social media attracted hundreds of tourists to the region recently. Subsequently, KFRI conducted a field study about the plant and prepared a detailed study report about how the plant affects our ecosystem, said researchers. “The invasion of Cabomba will result in the choking of ecologically and economically important water bodies and drainage canals. It requires large quantities of oxygen for its growth, thus resulting in freshwater biodiversity decline and affecting the water quality,” said the study report. “Any biological species (animals, plants, fungi and micro organisms) which are introduced and established outside their natural range that negatively impact the native biodiversity, ecosystem function, health and human welfare are called invasive alien species (IAS). They are the second-biggest cause for biodiversity loss, next to habitat destruction, and are recognized as a major threat to ecosystem health. Since there are no natural enemies for them in the introduced range, invasive alien species could reproduce rapidly and can out compete the native species for food, water and space,” the report said. Dr Sajeev told TOI, “We will submit a detailed project report to district collector and concerned officials about the remedies to remove the invasive alien plant immediately. The officials should take immediate steps to destroy or remove the plant from the water bodies.” “KFRI has a wing to study and verify such invasive alien plants. If the plant grows in more areas it will affect the ecosystem and water bodies in the region,” he added. The study report also suggested remedies to the growth of the species. “Mechanical removal of Cabombafurcata and drying on land, habitat modification to increase shading (planting trees), provide tarpaulin shade over Cabomba infested area wherever it cannot be mechanically removed, regular weeding on both aquatic and terrestrial habitats based on inputs from monitoring are some of the steps to contain further spread of Cabomba and stop the collection and transport of Cabomba species,” the KFRI report recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/invasive-pink-bloom-to-affect-ecosystem/articleshow/79612694.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Noted poet Surjit Patar to return Padma Shri||BATHINDA: To show solidarity with farmers and their demand for repeal of the three agricultural laws, noted Punjabi poetSurjit Patar announced that he would return his Padma Shri award. He made the announcement on Monday, after writing a few lines on the subject. Patar, chairman of Punjab Arts Council, got the Sahitya Akademi award in 1993 for ‘Hanere vich sulagdi varnmala’ and Padma Shri in 2012. He said, “I am at pains to describe the way the central government is treating farmers. The government must listen to their miseries. I have taken the decision with a heavy heart.” This was preceded by a number of sportspersons returning various awards and medals. Art and literary figures have announced return of Sahitya Akademi awards and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal also announced return of the second highest civilian award, Padma Vibhushan. Former union minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa announced that he would return the Padma Bhushan. Patar said farmers, who feed the nation, are forced to sit on the borders of Delhi in harsh winter. In 2015, when authors raised their voice accusing the central government of depriving people of the right to free expression, Patar returned the Sahitya Akademi award. Raising a voice, he said every citizen had the right to express his views and these could not be crushed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/noted-poet-surjit-patar-to-return-padma-shri/articleshow/79614886.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Spl cell to intensify vigil on New Town refuse-burning||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has decided to form a special monitoring cell to intensify its vigil on biomass burning, which is still continuing in the township, and start a campaign to prevent the nuisance. The authorities are also planning to ask the security personnel of Eco Park to move around the areas as a surveillance squad in late evening and early morning. The NKDA authorities held an online meeting recently with the officials of pollution control board (PCB) and cops for a discussion to find ways to prevent the nuisance. “Already, a WhatsApp group has been formed with the members of local NGOs, NKDA, Hidco and cops. A motorcycle team has been formed with six volunteers keeping tabs on biomass burning while warning signboards have been put up on vacant plots and miking has been done to create awareness among people. Still it is noticed that the nuisance is going on in the township,” said a NKDA official. “Drone surveillance will also be conducted and we will try to gather information from field workers so that the nuisance that is causing much air pollution can be stopped. A special monitoring cell will be formed to take a call on the matter,” the official added. The authorities are also planning to use weedicides to remove the grasses that are being burnt. TOI had earlier reported how the burning of stubble and grass was severely affecting air quality in New Town as the environment activist, Subhas Datta, had filed a petition last week at the National Green Tribunal over the issue. As remedial measures, Datta, in his petition, has mentioned that a task force monitoring committee should be formed to create awareness in this regard for coming up with alternative management of stubble and that immediate steps should be taken up by the authorities concerned to prevent the problem. The matter surfaced first about a month ago when a few Red Munia birds were killed and their nests were gutted after some miscreants set afire the grass on a plot opposite Eco Park. Residents said that though resistance group teams have been formed by NKDA, the nuisance continues unabated in several places across the township. “A week ago, we were playing cricket when we suddenly saw a fire in the nearby bush. It started to spread and within seconds it became huge as four to five of us rushed to fetch buckets of water from a nearby construction site to douse the fire,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spl-cell-to-intensify-vigil-on-new-town-refuse-burning/articleshow/79613976.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 8, 2020||Amritsar||Amritsar: Farmers disrupt inaugural ceremony of BJP’s election office||AMRITSAR: Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) on Tuesday disrupted the inauguration ceremony of the BJP’s election office in New Amritsar. KMSC activists staged a dharna and raised slogans against the Centre for introducing the three farm laws, said KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher. Meanwhile, the BJP unit organised a function for the inauguration. BJP spokesman Janardhan Sharma said they had to cut the function short because of the farmers’ protest. “As scheduled, we performed havan yajna and inaugurated the office,” he said, adding that BJP supporters would keep their establishments and businesses open on Wednesday. Meanwhile, activists of various farmers’ organisations went around markets and urged people to ensure the success of the Bharat Bandh call on December 8. Pandher informed that a large contingent of farmers would leave for Delhi to support the farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-disrupt-inaugural-ceremony-of-bjps-election-office/articleshow/79614901.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||19-year-old woman beaten to death for dowry in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A man and two members of his family were booked late on Sunday for allegedly beating to death his 19-year-old wife for “insufficient dowry”. All three are on the run. In his complaint to police, deceased Rajni’s uncle, Ashok Singh, claimed that his brother’s daughter was subjected to physical torture for more dowry ever since she was married to Rahul of Barha village, under Sungarhi police station, on March 9, 2019. Her husband and his relatives were demanding Rs 1 lakh cash. Despite mediation by relatives from both sides, the matter could not be settled, the complainant said. On December 6, he received a call from a villager from Barha, informing him about Rajni’s death. When he and other family members rushed to her house, she was lying dead on the floor. Her body had e several marks of beating, Ashok Singh said. Atar Singh, SHO, said that the deceased’s husband, his mother and his father’s older brother had been booked under IPC section 304 B (death of a woman caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) and provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/19-year-old-woman-beaten-to-death-for-dowry-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79611918.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||‘Kumbh-like prep for Magh Mela, Sant Samagam’||LUCKNOW: Reviewing the arrangements for the Magh Mela in Prayagraj and the Sant Samagam in Vrindavan-Mathura to be held next year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday that they should be of the same scale as it was for 2019 Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj. Directing officials to give extremely high importance to both events, Yogi said they should ensure strict compliance with Covid-19 protocols. Magh Mela will be held in January while Sant Samagam will be held from February 16 to March 28. “The chief secretary should review the arrangements every week or every two weeks and inform the CM’s office about the progress. Officials must ensure that the rivers Ganga in Prayagraj and Yamuna in Mathura are clean and there is fresh water available in them during the two programmes. There should be continuous flow in the Ganga in Prayagraj from Janaury 1 to February 16 and in the Yamuna in Vrindavan from February 1 to March 28. All sewers falling into the rivers should be tapped and work on these should be completed within the stipulated time,” he said. The CM added that “high-level arrangements” should be made for devotees, especially the Kalpvasis and sages who visit the Magh Mela and Sant Samagam. There should be foolproof security at both venues, Yogi said. All persons visiting the two events and choosing to stay at the venue will have to present an updated Covid-19 test report. Thereafter, rapid antigen tests will be conducted for devotees. Admission to the living area will only be permitted on the basis of a negative Covid-19 report. “The CM has instructed the Prayagraj Mela Authority and Uttar Pradesh Braj Tirtha Vikas Parishad to make preparations at the venues in view of Covid-19. If a person is found to be Covid positive in the organising area, he/she would be sent to the hospital immediately. Arrangements would be made for the quarantine of such persons,” said a government spokesperson. For surveillance and control of the venues, a command and control centre will be set up at Vrindavan, like the integrated command and control center set up in Prayagraj. Yogi warned officials against any kind of mess during the events, saying that the two cities should be clean and well sanitized during the events and not just the venues. Arrangements for beautification and cleanliness of tourist and historically important sites in Prayagraj and Vrindavan should be ensured, the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kumbh-like-prep-for-magh-mela-sant-samagam/articleshow/79614920.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Suspected to be cow smuggler, man thrashed in Alwar||ALWAR: A suspected cow smuggler was tied to a pole and beaten up in Alwar’s Kairthal by locals, a video of which has gone viral on social media. Cops have arrested the alleged cow smuggler and are looking for his accomplices. Four people, who were seen in the video thrashing the smuggler, were also arrested. Alwar police arrested 34-year-old Ansaar Khan under the Rajasthan Bovine Animal Act and are looking for two others who were with him. According to officials, on December 5, villagers found that Khan along with his accomplices was smuggling cattle and while they caught him, the others managed to escape. After catching Khan, the villagers tied him to a cemented pole and the video showed that a few locals were thrashing him with shoes and slippers while he was asking to be let off. After beating him up, the villagers handed him over to local police. On December 6, Khan lodged a case against the villagers for beating him up and police arrested Pappu Ram (34), Pratap Singh (62), Harpal Singh (29), and Satnam Singh (30). The incident is of Girwas village in Kairthal. Alwar has been infamous for cases of lynching of alleged cow smugglers. Three years ago, Pehlu Khan (55), a dairy farmer from Nuh district of Haryana, his two sons and some others were intercepted and attacked by cow vigilantes near Behror on April 1, 2017. Pehlu succumbed to his injuries on April 4 in a private hospital in Alwar. A year later, Rakbar Khan and his accomplice Aslam Khan were attacked by cow vigilantes in the wee hours of July 21, 2018, in Lalawandi village in Ramgarh block of Alwar district. While Aslam managed to save his life, Rakbar was lynched and a police patrol party reached the spot which took him to the hospital. He later succumbed to injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/suspected-to-be-cow-smuggler-manthrashed-in-alwar/articleshow/79614914.cms||Rajendra sharma
December 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Officials brave the wild for three votes||IDUKKI: Elections are known to bring out the best in people. And there have been numerous instances of officials and voters defying the odds to ensure this key democratic process. On Sunday, polling officials travelled over 12km into the deep jungle to register the vote of three forest staff in quarantine. Pampadumshola National Park watchers, Senkumar, Vignesh and Kubendaran, had been self-isolating at a camp shed after one of them tested positive for Covid-19. According to forest officials, who helped arrange the voting facility, the camp shed is situated deep inside the forest. “The three are in quarantine inside the forest and there was no way for them to cast their votes. We approached the Vattavada panchayat secretary for a solution.” “Vattavada panchayat secretary Nandakumar helped make the arrangements for the trio to vote despite being in quarantine. Special polling officers Joseph P M, Ratheeh R and driver Marimuthu travelled to the camp shed on Sunday to register their votes,” park range officer M K Shameer said. “The three watchers are voters of ward six and three of Vattavada panchayat. The polling team reached them via the ghat road in a jeep. The route is known for wild animal activity, especially elephants,” the official said. “Health department officials made arrangements for the three to cast postal votes. The polling officials followed Covid-19 guidelines throughout the process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/officials-brave-the-wild-for-3-votes/articleshow/79612709.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vice-President dedicates snapper seeds production technology to nation||Visakhapatnam: Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu dedicated the snapper seed production technology to the nation by handing over snapper seeds to two fish farmers at ICAR-CMFRI in Visakhapatnam on Monday. Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) under the aegis of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has pioneered the breeding and consistent seed production of John’s snapper (Lutjanus johnil) species in the country. Lauding the efforts put in by ICAR-CMFRI in developing marine capture fisheries and mariculture, the Vice-President said marine cage farming and availability of quality seeds round the year of commercially important finfishes are two path-breaking achievements that have provided the much-needed impetus to mariculture development in the country. “Developing integrated multitrophic aquaculture involving finfishes, shellfishes and seaweeds is a prime achievement of the institute. Snapper seed production and subsequent mariculture in cages can fulfil the domestic demand of marine finfish as a cheap and best source of animal protein. Being a rich source of omega-3 fatty acids, snapper consumption will improve the general well-being of the country’s vast population, and its farming would be lucrative for fish farmers. Snapper seed production on a consistent basis would give a fillip to diversification of mariculture in the country,” he said. Venkaiah Naidu further emphasised that the existing gap prevalent in the country between demand and supply can only be bridged by marine cage farming. With expansion of marine cage farming, huge increment in employment generation is expected, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vice-president-dedicates-snapper-seeds-production-technology-to-nation/articleshow/79612697.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Installation of HSRP put on hold in UP||LUCKNOW: Installation of high security registration plates (HSRPs) in all categories of vehicles has been put on hold for the time being. The department will issue fresh deadlines later. According to officials, those who have already made a booking on the portal (bookmyhsrp.com) need not cancel it and they would get the plate fixed on the allotted date. The Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) is preparating a website to make booking process easy. Till the website becomes functional, HSRP installation will remain on hold. Sources in the department said the website would be the common platform for all dealers. The website is likely to be ready in around 10 days. “We will get it on trial first and then open it for people. It’s is so far only for Delhi and UP that SIAM is developing a website,” an official said. Currently, vehicle owners were facing difficulties to get vehicle-related works done at the RTOs as the department had made booking slip mandatory for HSRP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/installation-of-hsrp-put-on-hold-in-state/articleshow/79614946.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Jan date for multi-storey parking lot launch at Sec V||Kolkata: The IT hub of Sector V in Salt Lake is set to have its first multi-storey car parking complex while New Town will get another pedestrian underpass at Biswa Bangla gate crossing soon. Both the Nabadiganta Industrial Township Authority (NDITA) and Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) are eyeing a January, 2021 deadline to open the car parking complex and the underpass. Officials of both the authorities recently inspected the work of the projects. NDITA officials said major portion of the eight-storey parking complex on plot number AQ 11 in Sector V has been completed with a few more technicalities to be completed. The pedestrian subway in New Town’s Rabindra Tirtha is also nearing completion. The subway will be 80-meter long and will have three entry and exit gates on the Rabindra Tirtha side, near the bus stand and at the smart garden near the Metro. Each of the gates will have escalators and staircases. “The escalators will be helpful for elderly people. There will also be sufficient illumination the subway,” said a Hidco official, adding there will be provisions to extend the subway for gates at four corners of the crossing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jan-date-for-multi-storey-parking-lot-launch-at-sec-v/articleshow/79613987.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 8, 2020||Agra||41 fresh Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 9,664||AGRA: At least 41 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 9,664. The patients included two staffers of SN Medical College (SNMC) and a doctor from the district hospital. Besides, there were three patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 54 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 9,664 cases reported in the district, 92.3% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases decreased from 585 on Sunday, to 563 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.6%. So far, 8,867 people have been cured of the infection."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/41-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-9664/articleshow/79611938.cms||---
December 8, 2020||World||Iran says ‘smart sat-controlled machine gun’ killed N-scientist||TEHRAN: A satellite-controlled machine gun with “artificial intelligence” was used in last week’s assassination of a top nuclear scientist in Iran, the deputy commander of the Revolutionary Guards told local media on Sunday. Mohsen Fakhrizadeh was driving on a highway outside Tehran with a security detail of 11 Guards on November 27, when the machine gun “zoomed in” on his face and fired 13 rounds, said rearadmiral Ali Fadavi. The machine gun was mounted on a Nissan pickup and “focused only on martyr Fakhrizadeh’s face in a way that his wife, despite being only 25 centimetres (10 inches) away, was not shot,” Mehr news agency quoted him as saying. It was being “controlled online” via a satellite and used an “advanced camera and artificial intelligence” to make the target, he added. Fadavi said that Fakhrizadeh’s head of security took four bullets “as he threw himself” on the scientist and that there were “no terrorists at the scene”. Iranian authorities have blamed arch foe Israel and the exiled opposition group the People’s Mujahedeen of Iran for the assassination. State-run Press TV had previously said “made in Israel” weapons were found at the scene. Various accounts of the scientist’s death have emerged, with the defence ministry saying he was caught in a firefight with his bodyguards, while Fars news agency said “a remote controlled automatic machine gun” killed him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/iran-says-smart-sat-controlled-machine-gun-killed-n-scientist/articleshow/79616420.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Back to normal: Cal HC takes net snags in stride||Kolkata: Judges, court staff, lawyers and litigants turned up in large numbers at Calcutta High Court on Monday, the first day physical hearings resumed since the pandemic. However, only a few matters could be heard due to an internet snag. The few cases that could be heard were criminal ones. “It had been notified earlier that physical hearings would resume from Monday and there was full jurisdiction of judges but little work was possible due to the technical glitch. As hearings were to be hybrid in nature for advocates who were unable to be present physically, internet connectivity was important. Things will hopefully be normal from Tuesday,” a high court official said. Following the glitch, the court administration decided hybrid hearings would be held only in criminal matters. While the high court parking lot was full, litigants were seen queuing up outside the entrances since the morning for mandatory thermal screening. Masks were a must but social distancing was not possible at all places. Only a limited number of people were allowed inside courtrooms at a time. For some lawyers, it was a busy day as they prepared documents for filing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/back-to-normal-cal-hc-takes-net-snags-in-stride/articleshow/79613998.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Three dead, four hurt after car rams into truck||Vijayawada: Three persons died on the spot while four others suffered severe injuries after their car rammed against a stationary truck near Bommuluru village under Bapulapadu mandal in Krishna district during the early hours of Monday. The deceased was identified as Cheemakurthi Nageswara Rao (75), Tata Rao (65) and Kanaka Durga (60). Police said that four of the persons in the accident belong to Nuzvid town, two are from Yerragondapalli in West Godavari district and one is from Vijayawada. According to Hanuman Junction police, the incident happened at around 3.30 am. Police said that the family was returning to Nuzvid town after attending a marriage in Bhimavaram town in West Godavari district when the incident occurred. Officials said the car was speeding and the driver lost control of the vehicle just before ramming into the truck. Police also noted that the driver could have been drowsy. Locals rushed the injured persons to Eluru Government Hospital for treatment where one of them is said to be in a critical condition. Police reached the spot and sent the bodies of the deceased to a local government hospital for postmortem. A case under Section 304A of IPC (causing death due to negligence) was registered at Hanuman Junction police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-dead-four-hurt-after-car-rams-into-truck/articleshow/79612707.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Here as your sevadar: CM Arvind Kejriwal at Singhu border||NEW DELHI: Reiterating his support to the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Aam Aadmi Party had always backed the farmers. He said this during his visit to Singhu border along with deputy CM Manish Sisodia and other Delhi cabinet ministers. While inspecting the arrangements made in the area for the farmers, Kejriwal said he was not visiting the spot as the Delhi CM, but as a sevadar of the farmers. “AAP supports the call of farmers for Bharat Bandh. Our volunteers from across the country will participate in the nationwide strike. I appeal to people across the nation to participate in the bandh peacefully,” he added. “Delhi cabinet ministers, MLAs, volunteers and I, everybody is serving the farmers. I’m not present here as a chief minister. I have come here as a sevadar. I have come here to serve the farmers. The farmers put in a lot of hard work to grow food for us. They are in a huge problem today. It is the responsibility of all citizens of the country to stand with the farmers and work for their service,” said Kejriwal, adding that he hoped the issue was resolved soon. Mentioning that AAP had stood with the farmers since the beginning of the stir called for repealing of the three new farm laws, Kejriwal said there was a lot of pressure on his government to convert nine stadiums in the city into temporary jails. “Centre had made a foolproof plan of ending the movement by putting the farmers into temporary jails. I was pressured to convert the stadiums into jails and several people called me regarding it. But we did not listen to them. I believe that it helped the agitation. Sometimes, you have to be less worried about the results of your actions by listening to your conscience and doing what’s right,” said Kejriwal. The CM was accompanied by health minister Satyendar Jain, social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and minorities affairs minister Imran Hussain. Delhi government has set up toilets, sanitation facilities and ensured availability of water at the protest site. Kejriwal said the farmers were satisfied with the arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/here-as-your-sevadar-cm-at-singhu-border/articleshow/79614973.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Government issues guidelines to check sale of substandard quality seeds||LUCKNOW: After stepping up crop procurement in the current season, the state government has laid down exhaustive guidelines to curb sale of poor quality of seeds to scale up agricultural productivity. The guidelines issued by additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi and sent to the directorate of agriculture make it mandatory for seed selling agencies to issue detailed receipts to farmers. These receipts should contain the name and address of farmers, name of seed selling agency, tag number of seed sack. This, he said, would be used to track down the agency which would be held liable to pay compensation to farmers in case the quality of seed is found to be poor. The department noted that farmers had to suffer massive losses following sale of fake or poor quality seeds. “The state government needs to put a curb on such incidents,” the guidelines said, adding that an FIR may also be lodged against the agencies under the Essential Commodities Act. It added that the licence of the seed selling agencies may be cancelled. The department said that other states may be approached for initiating action against agencies engaged in poor quality of seeds. The guidelines also entail that seed selling agencies – government, semi-government or private – would be required to publicly display species of seeds, their productivity, disease resistance ability, amount of seeds required per hectare and selling rate. The government has also asked seed inspectors to resort to more sampling of seeds at the start of crop season from the tagged stock. “Action would be initiated against the seed selling agencies under various sections of the seed control act,” the order said. The seed attestation agency would also be roped in for making available the list of seed selling agencies to the district agriculture officers who will be held accountable for the quality of seeds. The sale of seeds would be executed after two years of trial by research institutes/Kishi Vigyan Kendra or agricultural universities. The department said a representative of the seed selling agency will coordinate with the district agriculture officer to address the complaints of farmers, if any. In case a trader conducts seed selling business without due permission that action may be initiated under commercial tax act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-issues-guidelines-to-check-sale-of-substandard-quality-seeds/articleshow/79614980.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala local body polls: Five southern districts to set ball rolling||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After a day of unofficial, one-on-one campaigning, voters in the five southern districts are all set to go to the polls to select representatives to their respective local bodies on Tuesday. However, the entire election, in three phases, is being viewed with great concern – that it could lead to an already bad Coivd-19 situation in the state taking a turn for the worse. The first phase of polling – covering Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki – will involve 318 grama panchayats, 50 block panchayats, five district panchayats, 20 municipalities and two corporations. There are a total of 88,26,620 voters in the five districts, of which 41,58,341 are men and 46,68,209 women and 70 transgenders. Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of voters, with 28,38,077, followed by Kollam (22,22,770), Alappuzha (17,82,580), Pathanamthitta (10,78,550) and Idukki (9,04,643). Just over 42,500 are first-time voters. There will be a total of 11,225 polling booths to which 56,122 officials have been deployed. Health minister sounds alarm bellsHealth minister K K Shailaja expressed concern at the lack of social distancing at centres where polling materials were distributed to officials. Covid-19 protocols were visibly flouted in many distribution centres where polling officials had gathered in large numbers. The minister fumed at reports coming from distribution centres, forcing the state election commission to seek an explanation from authorities. District administrations conceded that crowding had occurred in the initial stage but this was quickly sorted out. The health minister warned that if polling officials don’t follow protocols the situation could go out of control. “All warnings have been issued by the government. We may have to pay a heavy price for any laxity on the part of officials or people,’’ she said. She also urged voters to ensure proper use of santizers and physical distancing at polling booths. After casting votes everyone should wash their hands, she added. Three-cornered contestOn a day of quiet campaigning in most districts, party leaders and legislators, accompanied by candidates, were seen personally meeting voters. The three major political parties, Congress, CPM and BJP, are betting on a stellar showing. The UDF is hoping for a major upset victory over the LDF, which has always had an upper hand in local-body polls. The BJP-led NDA is aiming to make deep inroads in several places. The high-profile Thiruvananthapuram city corporation is poised for a fierce triangular contest. If LDF is confident of continuing in power, the BJP, which was the main opposition party in the last council, is hoping to turn the tables this time round. UDF is eyeing a face-saving performance after the ignominy of the last election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/5-southern-dists-to-set-ball-rolling/articleshow/79612725.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB, AP cops arrest 1,537 in Op Nigha||Vijayawada: The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and AP police conducted a statewide drive against ganja, gambling, gutkha and liquor smuggling under Operation Nigha and arrested 1,537 persons on December 5 and 6. According to officials, this is the first statewide operation after the government expanded the scope of SEB to curb gutkha, ganja and gambling rackets. During the drive, officials detected 1,088 cases, arrested 1,537 persons, seized 192 vehicles, 3,652 bottles of non-duty paid liquor, 11,230 bottles of duty-paid liquor, 6,016 litres of ID liquor, 349 tonnes of sand, 530 kilos of ganja and Rs 45 lakh worth gutkha. During gambling raids, cops recovered Rs 11.7 lakh cash and Rs 8.35 lakh of gaming coins. Sources said SEB and police personnel were divided into 269 teams along with local police station teams and conducted route watch and surprise checks at 1,117 vulnerable points across the state. Operational control was given to the respective district SPs and commissioner of police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-ap-cops-arrest-1537-in-op-nigha/articleshow/79612713.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||2 stray tigers spotted on busy Pilibhit roads||PILIBHIT: Traffic on Madhotanda-Khatema and Madhotanda-Kalinagar roads came to a halt for some time on Sunday evening when commuters spotted a tiger each on both busy thoroughfares. Many captured pictures of the felines and shared it on social media. In both cases, commuters said the big cats lingered on the roads for 10-15 minutes before disappearing into the shrubs, Sanjeev Kumar, DFO of forest and wildlife division, said both tigers are new strays from Pilibhit tiger reserve (PTR). The point where the stray tiger was spotted on Madhotanda-Khatema road is about 2km from PTR’s Barahi range while that in Madhotanda-Kalinagar road is about 3km from the reserve. Earlier, an adult tigress had strayed near Madhotanda village, 30 km from Pilibhit city, and stayed there for about a fortnight. Subsequently, a three-year-old tiger had lurked amid the agricultural fields of the village before retreating into the forest after six days on December 5. Kumar, said forest teams were constantly monitoring the movement of the stray tigers. The presence of tigers on the roads is worrying, said wildlife experts. These big cats run the risk of being run over on foggy mornings and evenings. The forest department officials, they said, should evolve a strategy to push the animals back into the forest instead of simply monitoring them. Lucknow-based former member of Uttarakhand State Wildlife Board Kaushalendra Singh said tigers were straying out of forests due to massive infiltration of villagers in core forest area. He slammed the foresters for failing to stop the villagers or devising a plan to increase the prey base of the tigers in the forest, another reason for straying. “The tigers were straying out even in 2014, when PTR had only 25 big cats. Therefore, rising number of tigers in the forest, as stated by foresters, is not the root cause of their straying,” Singh said. The only way for confining the tigers in the core forest was to go for chain link fencing which neither the forest department nor the state government have paid heed to, he added. GC Mishra, former field director of Dudhwa tiger reserve, said, “Until the forest authorities launch healthy grassland management plan, the status of prey base will remain poor and unequally distributed, so tigers will keep straying.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-stray-tigers-spotted-on-busy-pilibhit-roads/articleshow/79611974.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 8, 2020||Chennai||School teacher’s kin lose 10% of compensation||Chennai: An accident claims tribunal has directed an insurance firm to pay Rs 24.9 lakh to the family of a school teacher who was killed after a two-wheeler rider rammed his bike near Chromepet. The tribunal also noticed that the 55-year-old victim was not in possession of a driving license and deducted 10% of compensation for contributory negligence The family of S S Mathivanan moved the tribunal seeking Rs 1 crore from the insurer. According to the petition moved by his wife K Mutharasi, Mathivanan was waiting at a traffic signal on GST Road, when a rashly driven bike rammed him from behind, pushing Mathivanan to the road. The accident happened on December 28, 2017, and Mathivanan died a day later of injuries sustained. In response, the insurer contended that the petitioners have to prove that the victim had all valid records at the time of the accident and also termed the compensation amount sought by the family as exorbitant. The tribunal perused the documents submitted by both sides and noted from the FIR clearly pointed that the vehicle insured by the insurer was cited as accused party and mentioned no negligence by Mathivanan. The tribunal, however, pointed out that Mathivanan’s family had not produced his driving licence and ruled that it was inclined to fix 10% of comepensation as contributory negligence of the victim. Considering the age of the victim, the loss of income for his family, the loss of dependency and other factors, the tribunal arrived at an amount of Rs 27.6 lakh as compensation. After deducting Rs 2.7 lakh (10%) as contributory negligence, the tribunal directed that the insurer pay Rs 24.9 lakh to the family within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/school-teachers-kin-lose-10-of-compensation/articleshow/79614003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19 positivity rate rises in Telangana, health officials on tenterhooks||HYDERABAD: After decreasing to one per cent a few days ago and being on a downward spiral for the last two months, the Covid-19 positivity rate in the state has increased slightly. The positivity rate was 1.56 per cent on Monday as 517 positive cases were reported from the 33,098 tests conducted all over the state. Though Telangana’s positivity rate continues to be much below the national average, this slight increase has been taken seriously by the state health authorities. Positivity rate is the percentage of people who return positive out of those tested for the virus. The increase has sent officials into a tizzy, who have set renewed targets to districts for ramping up the daily tests. The review of testing by districts is already underway. “Currently there are 10 districts where testing targets are high, the highest is in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. However, targets are increased again as the threat of a second wave is not yet over. Even a small variation is being taken note of and acted upon,” said a senior official from the state health department. The state health authorities are on tenterhooks over an impending increase in numbers post the GHMC elections. Expecting a second wave within a week, the focus now is on early identification. “The idea is to identify early by testing more and more people and arresting the spread. While the state is prepared to handle a second wave, delaying the wave is the best defence to decrease mortality and morbidity,” added the official. Meanwhile, average positivity rate in the country is 3.33 in December, almost three times higher than that of Telangana, which averaged 1.08 in the first week of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-19-positivity-rate-rises-health-officials-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/79614002.cms||Amrita Didyala
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure law & order, vigil in border areas during farmers’ protest: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Ahead of Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh called by farmers in protest against the new farm laws, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to ensure that the agitation does not disrupt normal life in any way. Reviewing preparations to maintain law and order during the agitation, the CM said maintaining peace would be the top priority of the government. He asked administrative and police officials of all the districts to ensure that common man did not face any inconvenience due to the farmers’ agitation. “The state and central governments are taking various steps to ensure the welfare of farmers. They should not get misled by the call of bandh,” he said. The CM asked officials to establish contact with local farmers’ associations and leaders and inform them about the provisions of the new farm laws and dispel their doubts. He said the government would not allow disruption in peace and law and order and special vigil should be maintained in border areas to ensure normalcy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-law-order-vigil-in-border-areas-during-farmers-protest-cm/articleshow/79615008.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Groom on way to Ghaziabad for wedding takes a detour, joins farmers’ agitation||Bareilly: Wearing a crisp sherwani and decked in flowers and currency notes, Zia Ul, 26, was already running late for Ghaziabad-- where the bride’s side was waiting for him on Monday afternoon-- when he decided to take a detour, for the farmers’ sake. At the site of protest in UP’s Sambhal, organised by a political party, Zia Ul stood out. Protesters thronged him for selfies, and thanked him for coming. But for the groom, it was just a small gesture of respect towards growers who are up against the government’s three farm laws. Son of a farmer, Zia Ul supports his uncle in his business. “It is my wedding day. The date was fixed a few months ago, otherwise I would have actively participated in the protests. I urge our Prime Minister Narendra Modi to understand the grievances of the farmers. They are the backbone of the nation and the new laws should be reverted for their benefit. At the same time, I also request people to protest peacefully and give way to ambulances and people in need,” the groom said. Zia Ul, his family members and friends remained with the protesters for nearly an hour and then left for Ghaziabad where his nikah was solemnised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/groom-on-way-to-ghaziabad-for-wedding-takes-a-detour-joins-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79611993.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops on toes, issue warning to troublemakers||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has made adequate arrangements to ensure normal movement of people on the roads for the proposed Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. Senior police officers warned that anybody who tries to disrupt normal movement or forcefully tries to close shops will be strongly dealt with. The traffic police said arrangements will be beefed up on the roads and more personnel will be deployed to ensure smooth travel. “The police appeal to everybody not to disrupt life of common citizens and residents of Delhi,” the Delhi Police PRO said in a statement. Anybody trying to disrupt normal movement, life or forcefully closing shops will be dealt with according to the law, the statement added. “We have deployed adequate police forces and the farmers have assured us that they will be peaceful,” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East). “Extra force has also been deployed in market places to prevent any inconvenience to the common man.” At Singhu border, the epicentre of the protest, police presence has been boosted. “We are regularly in touch with the farmers who have agreed to remain peaceful and not disrupt normal life,” said Gaurav Sharma, DCP (Outer-North). On Twitter, the traffic police said on Monday that Singhu, Auchandi, Piao Maniyari, Mangesh, Tikri and Jharoda borders would remain closed during the Bharat Bandh. The police statement said, “NH44 has also been closed on both sides. So those travelling are suggested to take alternative routes via Lampur, Safiabad and Saboli borders. Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road.” Those driving to Noida have been cautioned to take DND because the Chilla border on Noida Link Road has been closed for traffic. NH24 is also closed for traffic from the border at Ghaziabad to Delhi. “People are advised to avoid NH24 for coming to Delhi and use Apsara/ Bhopra/DND for coming to Delhi,” traffic police added. The Badusarai border is open for light motor vehicles and Jhatikara border for two-wheelers. People can travel to Haryana from Delhi via Dhansa, Daurala, Kapashera, Rajokri NH8, Bijwasan or Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders. A police officer said, “Some of the border points were already closed and the effect of the closure has affected other roads. We need to ensure that movement of any emergency vehicles, such as ambulances, patients’ cars and those travelling to the airport, is not affected. We are in touch with police officers of other states to ensure that any crowd moving towards the capital’s borders are stopped at that point.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-on-toes-issue-warning-to-troublemakers/articleshow/79615034.cms||Sakshi Chand
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh a show of our unity, say farmers||NEW DELHI: Expecting support from large sections of the people across the country for the Bharat Bandh called by them, farmer leaders assured on Monday that the closure would be “peaceful” and its aim was to send a message to the government that the protest was a national movement. The strike is to be observed between 11am and 3pm on Tuesday. According to the protest leaders, shopkeepers and transport unions have expressed their support for the cause. However, emergency services will be permitted to operate freely. “A lot of people are on their way to Delhi to lend support to the farmers already present there. The idea is to make the government understand how we feel about the new agriculture Acts,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader. Harishpal Singh of Ludhiana, on protest at Singhu border, said commercial establishments will shut down in solidarity with the farmers and people in the transport sector will also be taking part in the bandh. “From our side, there will be nothing different from what has happened in the past 12 days. There will be no disturbance to the lives of the common man from our end,” promised Harishpal. Punjabi singer Gurdas Maan also reached the Singhu border on Monday. Pargat Singh of Sirsa, Haryana, said thousands more are likely to arrive on the day of the Bharat Bandh. “Groups will arrive from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and they will sit in protest at whichever border is convenient for them,” Pargat said. “We don’t aim create any inconvenience or close down a new border.” At Tikri border too, the agitating farmers said the bandh would help them garnering support before another round of talks with the central government. Pradip Dhankar, state president, Akhil Haryana MSP Sangarsh Samiti, said, “The central government has been trying to divide us by saying this was a movement involving the farmers of only one state. But it isn’t. This is a national movement. It’s a show of strength, of farmer unity on Tuesday.” Detained by police while protesting at Jhajhar, Dhankar headed straight to Tikri border after his release. Raj Singh, a farmer from Haryana who has been at the protest site for the past 12 days, said, “We are not terrorists and we have not come to disturb anyone. The day the Centre repeals the three laws, we will turn back our tractors and go home.” Meanwhile at both Singhu and Tikri borders, Delhi Police has made elaborate arrangements for Tuesday. At Singhu, one entire carriageway has been barricaded with boulders and barbed wires. Only a small section of the road will be open to allow commuters to pass through on foot. At Tikri too, police have used cranes to place boulders as barricades along a 500-metre stretch. Paramilitary personnel have also been deployed in large numbers there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bandh-a-show-of-our-unity-say-farmers/articleshow/79615012.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Allahabad high court questions ‘murder attempt’ charge against Tablighi participants||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has observed that filing a chargesheet for attempt to murder against a person for attending the Tablighi Jamaat meet at New Delhi even though he tested negative for novel coronavirus infection prima facie reflects an abuse of the power of law. “The matter needs consideration,” said Justice Ajay Bhanot while directing the counsel for the applicant, one Mohammd Saad of Mau district, to implead UP DGP, Mau SSP and circle officer of Mau as respondents in the case. The court also stayed the proceedings of criminal case registered against Mohammad Saad at police station Kotwali of Mau district under Sections 307, 270 IPC, in the court of Juvenile Justice Board, Mau till further orders. During hearing, the counsel for Mohammad Saad contended that the prosecution said in the chargesheet that the applicant had visited a religious congregation organized by Tablighi Jamaat at New Delhi but did not intimate the administration of his arrival after returning nor did he go under voluntary quarantine. The counsel added that upon examination, the applicant had tested negative and contended that even if evidence collected during investigation and in the FIR are taken on face value (though denied as incorrect), no offence is disclosed against the applicant. He further submitted that the original chargesheet was drawn up under Section 270 (whoever malignantly does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and another section of IPC and even presented in the court. However, the same was recalled and fresh chargesheet was submitted under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and 270 of IPC as per an order the by the Mau circle officer. Justice Bhanot directed the circle officer to file his personal affidavit indicating as to how Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC is made out from the facts in the record from the material collected during the investigation and justify the amendment in the chargesheet directed by him. The court also directed the additional government advocate (AGA), representing the state government to file counter reply in the matter within 10 days. The court directed to put up this case on December 15, 2020 in the list of fresh cases for the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/hc-questions-attempt-to-murder-chargesheet/articleshow/79615041.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Assess crop loss in Krishna by Nov 10’||Vijayawada: Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, minister in charge of Krishna district, on Monday directed the agriculture department to complete enumeration of damaged crop in the district by November 10. The minister chaired the district review committee (DRC) meeting held at irrigation department head office in the city on Monday and enquired about crop damage due to cyclone Nivar. MLAs and MLCs across the district participated in the meeting. Ramachandra Reddy directed officials to console and motivate farmers and said the government will give Rs 7 lakh as ex-gratia to families of farmers who committed suicide. Penamaluru legislator K Parthasarathi said that agriculture officials are not enrolling farmers who lost crop due to Nivar as they have already claimed input subsidy in August. Ramachandra Reddy directed district collector and agriculture JD to look into the issue and ensure that all farmers who have lost crops receive compensation soon. Machilipatnam MP Vallabhaneni Balashouri said that arterial roads across the district got damaged with rains and officials are requested to take measures for road repairs. Vijayawada Central legislator Malladi Vishnu expressed dissatisfaction over the slow pace of stormwater drain project works in the city. He said people are facing problems due to waterlogging of roads during rains. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh said they will take measures to increase the pace of drain works. Gannavaram legislator Vallabhaneni Vamsi Mohan requested VMC to create infrastructure at Pathapadu village where the VMC has a dumping yard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/assess-crop-loss-in-krishna-by-nov-10/articleshow/79612722.cms||Venu Lanka
December 8, 2020||Pune||PMC restarts clearing of debris on Vetal Tekdi road||PUNE: The road demolition work on Vetal Tekdi’s survey numbers 123 and 124 resumed on Monday after the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) city engineer Prashant Waghmare met the authorities from the Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT). On Saturday, work had halted when the college barred the PMC’s machinery and trucks from entering its premises. Waghmare told TOI on Monday that they had instructed MIT to immediately dismantle the kuchha road they had built on the tekdi’s slope. “Now, MIT and the PMC will be involved in the road demolition work so that it is completed faster,” he added. On MIT’s fresh application sent to PMC on constructing an approach road at the same spot, Waghmare said, “We have told them to demolish the current road first. Their application is still under scrutiny.” A civic official added that clear instructions were given to the institute during the meeting on removing the rubble and debris as per the existing laws as the road was built without seeking prior permissions and that too on a hilltop/ hillslope zone. A PMC official told TOI that they did face problems while entering the MIT’s premises once again on Monday. “We had sent the earthmover and workers on Monday morning, but the MIT authorities stopped them at their gate even though they were accompanied by the police,” he said. Mahesh Chopade, director of planning and development for MIT Group, did not respond to TOI’s calls, WhatsApp and text messages seeking his response. Mangesh Karad, executive director and secretary of MAEER’S MIT Group Pune, said he was not in the meeting with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials on Monday, and hence did not know what had transpired in the discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-restarts-clearing-of-debris-on-vetal-tekdi-road/articleshow/79614008.cms||Neha Madaan
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Naktala club row: Search for bike gang in Narendrapur||Kolkata: Bikers, who had vandalized Naktala Udayan Sangha Club — whose president is education minister Partha Chatterjee — late on Saturday night, had fled towards Narendrapur, police said on Monday. No arrest has been made in this case in which two persons were also injured and many vehicles were damaged. The police took to studying all CCTV footage between Naktala and Garia for quick leads. “A few eateries and cafeterias in the area where the gang frequented have been asked to give leads. Another team is working on leads from bike registration numbers. It was around midnight that the incident took place and thus no face or bike number is easily visible,” said an officer. “A few areas near Sonarpur railway station and the extended Bypass are under our watch. The hooligans were communicating in Hindi but threatening the locals in Bengali. It has to be a group who is aware of the topography of Naktala area. In all likelihood, they used the bylanes to reach the club but fled using the NSC Bose Road towards Garia,” said an officer. Sources said a video shot by a local woman from the balcony at the time of the incident is also helping cops in ascertaining the exact chain of events. The Netaji Nagar police have now slapped attempt to murder section along with other charges in this case based on the statement of electrician Pannalal Ghosh. Area residents, meanwhile, put up banners outside the club and in the area. One of it read, “Bangalir abege akraman, Samle nebe Udayan.” The poster, printed in black and white, also said the “face of Durga Puja” (Naktala udayan) cannot be browbeaten. The other poster stated: “Akranta..tobu amra chup.. Chuper sobdo Virat.” A strong police force continued its vigil outside the club. Residents said they have faith in cops. “Police are posted here and DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan has visited the spot and promised action. The cops also need to step up vigil even in the bylanes,” said Abhijit Das, a senior citizen. Special night raids have been planned by Netaji Nagar and Bansdroni PS, along with Garia traffic guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/naktala-club-row-search-for-bike-gang-in-narendrapur/articleshow/79614011.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur park renamed after Maulana Azad, Naqvi says days of ‘khandani zamindari’ over||RAMPUR: A park in Rampur which was earlier named after Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Muhammad Azam Khan's father, late Mumtaz Khan, has been now renamed after India's first Union education minister Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. The park was built near Azam's residence by the then SP government in 2005. It was inaugurated by Union Minister of Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday, along with 'Atal Park' on Bareilly Road. Naqvi also inaugurated three gates inside the city built during the SP rule. The names of all these gates have been changed and attributed to war heroes, and will be written in Urdu. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought a revolutionary change in India's political landscape, and this transformation has jolted those who considered politics their dynastic property," Naqvi said on the occasion. He said that a politician's identity cannot remain dependent on a "family cradle", only his diligence and hard work would matter. It is no longer about "khandani zamindari" [family fiefdom], but about serving people, he added, taking jibes at the opposition parties. "Be it farmers, youths, soldiers, women, the Centre has been working with complete honesty for socio-economic and educational empowerment of every section of society," he further said. Hailing PM's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister said, "He led from the front and turned a disaster into an opportunity to make India 'atmanirbhar' [self-reliant]." On renaming the park, Rampur district magistrate (DM) Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, "Maulana Azad was a great freedom fighter. Future generations should know more about these renowned personalities." "The park was built by the municipality but it remained shut. We opened it, beautified it and named it after the first Lok Sabha MP of Rampur," the DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-park-renamed-after-maulana-azad-naqvi-says-days-of-khandani-zamindari-over/articleshow/79612004.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 8, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi corporation for hike in property tax rates, cut in various rebates||NEW DELHI: Facing a severe revenue crunch due to the ongoing pandemic, South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s executive wing has proposed an increase in the property tax rates by 2-5% for residential properties. Adopting various fiscal tightening measures, SDMC also plans to reduce the quantum of property tax rebates it gives to various categories of beneficiaries. With the municipal commissioner unwell, the additional commissioner presented d the annual budget on his behalf on Monday. Instead of the regular annual increase, the corporation has proposed to reduce its budgetary estimate projections by around Rs 482 crore. In comparison to a proposed expenditure of Rs 5316.68 crore in the preceding year, the civic body has moved a budget worth Rs 4833.79 cr for 2021-22. The additional commissioner said the civic body proposes to move from three property tax slabs to just two. In case of residential properties, houses located in the A-B category colonies may have to pay an increased 14% tax while those in C-H colonies could pay 12%. A senior corporation official explained that under the current three-slab system, A-B categories pay 12%; C-E categories 11%; and F-H categories 7%. For a 100 sq m property in a B category colony, the change will lead to the annual tax increasing from Rs 6000 to Rs 7000 while for a G category 100 sqm house, the change will cause the annual tax to increase from Rs 1400 to Rs 2400. Categories C, D and E, which are in the middle, will see the least change (only about 1%). Hence, a similarly sized D category house will witness an increase from Rs 4400 to Rs 4800, an official explained. Similarly, in the case of commercial properties, a 2-3% tax rate hike has been proposed. Under the proposed system, properties in the A-D categories will pay 15% tax while E-H categories may have to shell out at a rate of 12%. The prevailing three categories pay at the following rates: A-B 15%; C-E 12% and F-H 10% tax rate. The budgetary proposals state that properties in industrial areas which have been converted to commercial and the commercial properties of DMRC will be charged at a 20% tax rate. Also, if the proposals are accepted, the quantum of rebate for early payment of property tax will be reduced from 15% to 10%; the rebate for senior citizens, women and physically handicapped people will be reduced from 30% to 20%; and the 20% rebate provided for cumulative filing by co-operative groups housing societies will be abolished. The tax department also wants to restrict the rebate provided to rural areas to properties with an area of less than 100 sqm. The budget states that the 1% annual education cess will continue in the next financial year. The municipal body has announced that it will undertake several e-governance projects by starting digitization, online portals and mobile applications to expand its online services in the coming months. Around 25.29% of the budgetary resources have been dedicated to sanitation. The corporation also plans to start a veterinary hospital in Vasant Kunj for treatment of birds and animals and issuance of radium collars for sterilized stray dogs so that unsterilized dogs can be easily identified. Several old projects have also been recycled with a promise to ensure completion this year. These include work on a new engineered landfill and waste-to-energy plant near Okhla, new CNG crematoriums, a dog crematorium, work on 10 new multilevel parkings and the target of producing 1.1 crore units from solar power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-corpn-for-hike-in-propertytax-rates-cut-in-various-rebates/articleshow/79615069.cms||Paras Singh
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Illicit affair perfect mix for disaster, woman ‘guilty’ of husband’s murder||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has convicted a woman and her purported lover for murdering the woman’s husband. The court observed that an “illicit relationship was the biggest weapon of cheating that destroyed” a family. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav also said, “Illicit relationships are a perfect mix for disaster. Most times, it turns the family system into hell.” The woman, Shanti, and her brother-in-law (sister’s husband) Satender, were accused of killing her husband Dilip in 2015. Holding that they were in an “illicit relationship”, the court said, “Deceased being found dead within the secured precincts of his house raises an irresistible inference that he was murdered by the accused persons in a pre-planned conspiracy.” Dilip’s postmortem suggested the cause for his death to be asphyxiation. Police claimed that the wife was having an affair with Satender, who was living in their house at the time of Dilip’s death. The allegation was supported by the testimony of Dilip’s sister-in-law who claimed to have seen both accused in a “compromising position”. Shanti’s arrest led to the seizure of certain household items, including rat kill. In her defense in court, her counsel argued that Dilip died after falling from the stairs as he was heavily drunk. Satender, on the other hand, argued it was Dilip’s sister-in-law who had framed him in the case for he had refused to partner with her in his business. They both also said that seizures made by police had actually been planted on them. Commenting on the nature of evidence brought on record, the court highlighted five such circumstances — most important one relating to the crime scene — to hold it was a murder. “The onus was on the persons residing in the house, i.e., Shanti and co-accused Satender to give a cogent explanation with regard to the sudden, unnatural and untimely death of Dilip, which admittedly they have failed to do,” it said. To show why the murder charge couldn’t be proved against his client, the defense counsel submitted that some of the family members, who deposed as star witnesses in the case, had turned hostile. He said there was not even an iota of evidence or statement to prove an “illicit relationship” between the two accused persons. Dealing with the submission, the court noted that the testimony of hostile witnesses couldn’t be rejected “en block” (all at the same time) and the court had to look at evidence of the hostile witnesses to corroborate other evidence on record. The court relied on the testimony of Dilip’s sister-in-law saying it couldn’t be just discarded as the defense didn’t agree with it. “If such a sole testimony is found by the court to be entirely reliable, there is no legal impediment to the conviction of the accused persons on such proof,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/illicit-affair-perfect-mix-for-disaster-woman-guilty-of-husbands-murder/articleshow/79615075.cms||Aamir Khan
December 8, 2020||Amaravati||AP: ‘Housing for all’ project to commence on December 25||AMARAVATI: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to commence the construction of houses under ‘Nava Rathnalu — Housing for All’ project from December 25, immediately after the distribution of house sites. Jagan, who reviewed the preparedness of the house sites distribution programme with ministers and senior officials at his camp office on Monday, asked officials to keep in mind that they were not constructing mere houses but several thousand villages. The ground breaking ceremonies in the upcoming housing colonies should be held for a fortnight — from December 25 to January 7 — across the state, the chief minister said, while asking officials to get ready to launch the construction of 15.6 lakh houses in one go. “There should be three options to construct houses for the poor. The government would take full responsibility of construction cost if beneficiaries are willing,” he said. Officials should allow beneficiaries to construct their houses by providing material and wage component, he added. “The beneficiaries would also be allowed to purchase the material on their own by giving them the cost of material as per standard prices. We should be open to all three options. The beneficiary should be allowed the freedom to make the choice,” the chief minister directed. Jagan said the government will distribute house sites worth Rs 23,535 crore as they have acquired nearly 68,361 acres for the house sites scheme. He directed officials to hand over a letter to beneficiaries where they could not distribute the house sites due to legal complications. “The beneficiaries should be assured in the letter that they would be given the house site soon after the resolution of cases,” he said, and also asked officials to ensure that all pending cases in the courts should be resolved at the earliest. The government plans to construct around 28.3 lakh houses in the next three years, starting with 8,914 houses in each assembly segment in the first phase. In the second phase of the programme, 12.7 lakh houses would be launched. “The government will spend Rs 482 crore to provide additional incentive to TIDCO houses of 365 sq ft and 430 sq ft. All houses of 300 sq ft would be registered in the name of beneficiaries for which they need to pay just Rs 1,” the CM said. Ministers Dharmana Krishnadas, Botcha Satyanarayana, Ch Ranganatha Raju and chief secretary Nilam Sawhney were also present at the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/housing-for-all-project-to-commence-on-december-25/articleshow/79612746.cms||Samdani MN
December 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||LDF poised for historic victory, claims Pinarayi||Thiruvananthapuram: On the eve of first phase of local body polls, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that LDF is poised for a historic win. “The results will demolish strong bastions of UDF and dampen the hopes of BJP in Kerala,” Vijayan said in a statement. “Across Kerala, there is a sentiment to acknowledge developmental and welfare initiatives launched by the LDF government during the past four-and-a-half years. People don’t care about the organized lie campaign unleashed by right-wing forces against our government. This election result will prove that no slanderous campaign will affect people who have felt the presence and intervention of the government in their daily lives,” he said. Vijayan said the only poll plank of LDF is development and the front has sought votes by presenting development projects implemented right from panchayat level. “The interventions of the government are unmatched in the country. When the state had to endure flood calamity, Nipah threat and cyclone Ockhi, the government stepped in to ensure that people didn’t starve and they were not pushed into a crisis. Kerala set a model for the country during lockdown by establishing community kitchens and providing shelter for guest workers. We have announced a special package worth Rs 20,000 crore to help people from the impact of Covid-19. Special schemes for agri and small-scale industries were also unveiled,” he added. Pooh-poohing the slogan by UDF – a vote against corruption – the CM said, one of their MLAs is in prison following a cheating case and a former minister is in remand in a corruption case. “Serious allegations of corruption are levelled against the opposition leader. UDF is falling apart like the Palarivattom bridge. They don’t have a serious agenda than the lie campaigns pushed with the help of a section of the media,” he alleged. According to the CM, UDF and BJP are playing communal cards alike. “UDF is stitching simultaneous alliances with BJP and Jamaat-e-Islami. Even their cadres are upset over this. People’s verdict against such opportunistic alliances will be visible when the results are out,” he said. The CM said people, who are facing issues like fuel price hike and illogical farm bills, will reject the politics of BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-poised-for-historic-victory-claims-pinarayi/articleshow/79612764.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Files gutted in fire at Nadigar Sangam office||Chennai: A minor fire in the office of the South Indian Artistes’ Association (SIAA), referred to as Nadigar Sangam, located on Habibullah Road in T Nagar created tension on Monday. At least 10 fire and rescue services personnel from the Teynampet fire station battled for nearly an hour to put out the fire. An officer from the department said the fire was likely due to a short circuit from an air conditioner that was kept running for long. Since the fire broke out around 4am, there was no casualty. An employee noticed the fire and alerted the fire services personnel. The thick smoke that bellowed out from the building caused passersby to panic. A few files were damaged in what police ruled to be an accident. Members of the association were immediately called in and asked to examine the files gutted. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/files-gutted-in-fire-at-nadigar-sangam-office/articleshow/79614014.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||You may have to pay up to Rs 300 extra for flying out of IGI||NEW DELHI: Flying out of the national capital could soon cost more with Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL) planning to impose a new charge on passengers to survive the Covid-induced downturn in travel. DIAL has sought regulatory nod to charge Rs 200 and Rs 300 from each domestic and international outbound passenger, respectively. It has asked Airports Economic Regulatory Authority (AERA) to allow this till March 2024. Separately, DIAL had last week petitioned the aviation ministry to “direct” AERA to factor in the Covid impact on its revenue while determining the airport’s tariffs, failing which it had warned of a “serious cash-flow deficit situation”, which would make it “difficult to continue airport operations”. Comments from DIAL were sought and awaited till the time of going to press. As first reported by TOI earlier, Mumbai Airport’s plea to charge Rs 200 and Rs 500 from every departing domestic and international passenger, respectively, as ad hoc user development fee (UDF) is already under AERA’s consideration. The state-run Airports Authority of India and PPP airports of Hyderabad and Kochi have said they are not seeking any interim charge as of now to mitigate Covid’s devastating impact on aviation. The DIAL management wrote to the Union civil aviation ministry last Tuesday, saying it anticipates a shortfall or loss of Rs 3,538 crore from April 2020 to March 2024. It informed the government of suffering a cash loss of Rs 419 crore in April-September 2020 (H1) and projected a loss of Rs 939 crore in the Covid-ravaged FY 2020-21. The airport, which saw 7 crore passengers in FY 2019-20 and expects less than 2 crore this fiscal, has projected that losses like these will continue till FY 2024. “Viability gap support of Rs 3,538 crore will be required for third control period (till FY 2024) to maintain operations, service levels, safety and security of the airport… the (declining) traffic scenario has taken a toll on DIAL’s financial position and put forth a challenge for sustainable operations. The current situation is very devastating… In case, AERA does not consider our request of viability gap, DIAL will end up in serious cash flow deficit situation finding itself difficult to continue the airport operations (sic),” DIAL CEO V K Jaipuriar wrote to aviation secretary P S Kharola last Tuesday. Travel, both international and domestic, was among the first casualties of the Covid pandemic. The impact on number of overall passengers — and revenues for aviation stakeholders like airlines, airports, flight caterers and ground handlers — has been crushing. Due to this, Mumbai airport has deferred capital expenditure of about Rs 3,000 crore. DIAL has slowed down expansion work at Terminal 1 to defer the June 2022 completion date by a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/you-may-have-to-pay-up-to-rs-300-extra-for-flying-out-of-igi/articleshow/79615118.cms||Saurabh Sinha
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Cheer back on Lucknow University campus as classes unlock after 9 months||LUCKNOW: After a long gap of nine months, buzz was back on Lucknow University on Monday as it unlocked classes for on-campus teaching. It was the first day on LU campus for freshers, who took admissions a few months ago. For senior students, it was time for reunion with classmates and friends. Excitement was clearly visible as students exchanged hugs, clicked selfies, cracked jokes and savoured canteen’s ‘chai’ and ‘bandh-samosa’ besides attending classes. The attendance in classrooms was between 25-40%. LU gardens teemed with student groups sharing their experiences of the pandemic. However, amid the excitement, many students forgot the Covid protocols like wearing face mask and social distancing. A large number of students reached the campus even before the departments were opened. “Lectures will held on only two days in a week in the commerce department. I did not have my class today but when I came to know that my outstation friends would be back on the campus, we all decided to meet up,” said BCom student Prashant Mishra. He said in online classes he could see friends but couldn’t enjoy leg-pulling, sitting in a group and sharing food and notes. “It was wonderful coming back to the department and catching butterflies for our practicals. The fun of learning on campus is something that is not possible in online learning,” said BSc student Shraddha. BSc student Ritu Priya said, “I had decided to get books issued from the library, discuss concepts which were unclear and to ask about assignments but forgot everything after I met my friends. I didn’t realize that I missed my lecture while chit chatting in Tagore lawn.” LU officials, however, had made arrangements like social distancing circles and sanitizers at a few places like in dean and cashier officers but most students ignored them in the excitement to meet friends and batchmates. “I was so excited when I saw new signages, whitewashed buildings, lush well maintained trees and night lights on the campus. My friends and I couldn’t stop ourselves from taking a round of the campus. It seemed as if we had entered a new university,” said MBA student Atharva Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cheer-back-on-lu-campus-as-classes-unlock-after-9-months/articleshow/79615096.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Dead man walking: Mix-up causes turmoil||NEW DELHI: When 33-year-old Shriniwas Kumar woke up on Monday morning, he was hopeful of discharge from hospital after getting the report for his last Covid-19 test on December 3. But he was in for a shock when he soon received four messages on his mobile phone with a link for his death certificate. He clicked the link to find his personal details indeed on the certificate and immediately called police about the aberration. Kumar has no idea why the Lok Nayak Hospital issued him a death certificate. The distraught man told TOI that his family underwent stress and grief at the thought of his death. He sent them a video message to reassure them he was alive and well. “Only I know what my family and I went through. It was unbelievable. Being alive yet declared dead on paper,” Kumar told TOI. “Besides police, I also informed the Union health ministry and some officials arrived at the hospital to sort out the matter.” Kumar narrated how he tested positive for Covid in the last week of November and was admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital on November 24. “After my condition improved, the doctors tested me again on December 3 and I was awaiting my report. I and my family were hoping for my discharge,” he told TOI. “On Monday afternoon, I received four messages on my phone about my death certificate. My family was in a shock as I was too.” Kumar continued, “I immediately called the cops and informed them that I was well in the Covid ward but had been issued a death certificate. The hospital authorities accepted that the files got exchanged and it was a clerical mistake, which they hastened to rectify.” When TOI contacted the hospital, official offered no response. A senior municipal corporation official, however, explained that Delhi hospitals had been provided user IDs and passwords for filing the details of institutional deaths in the death registration system and the system automatically generated the death certificate based on data filed by the hospital. “If such an incident has happened, the hospital concerned must have filed wrong data in the system,” the official said. “The registration system trusts hospitals not to file wrong details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dead-man-walking-mix-up-causes-turmoil/articleshow/79615160.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Govt extends solidarity to bandh call||Amaravati: In its extension of solidarity to the farmers’ bandh on Tuesday, the government directed all offices to remain closed till 1 pm. It has also directed the management of APSRTC to not ply services till the completion of the bandh. All educational institutions will also remain closed on Tuesday. Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu said the government has high respect for the sentiments of farmers on the new farm laws. He said the government has initiated several measures to allow farmers to conduct their protests and bandh in a peaceful manner. Kannababu in a statement here on Monday said the YSRC extended its support to the new farm laws in Parliament only on the condition that Minimum Support Price (MSP) for all crops would be continued. “TDP on the other hand extended its unconditional support to the new farm laws and is speaking in a different tone after farmers switched to the protest route,” Kannababu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-extends-solidarity-to-bandh-call/articleshow/79612772.cms||Samdani MN
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Winter chill unlikely before Dec 16: Met||Kolkata: A rise in temperature across northwest India has pushed back the onset of winter chill in Kolkata. With the mercury shooting up to five degrees above normal in Jammu and three notches higher than normal in Delhi, the flow of the northwesterly has been cut off. The minimum temperature in Kolkata could hover around 17°C-18°C for the next for or five days, according to the Met office. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 18.6°C, three degrees above normal, on Monday. “Other than the absence of chill in northwest India, which is the principal determinant of winter temperatures in Kolkata, the northwesterly, too, has turned weak. Also, we have a high-pressure zone above Bay of Bengal that is supplying moisture to the region, helping to keep the mercury up,” said Regional Meteorological Centre director GK Das. The chance of the mercury sliding in the city is low till at least December 16, meteorologists said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/winter-chill-unlikely-before-dec-16-met/articleshow/79614015.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Over a third of north corpn budget now based on loans; no new taxes||New Delhi: Despite its mounting financial troubles, the executive wing of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has refrained from proposing any increase in property taxes this year. It does not want to impose extra burden on people during the pandemic, the executive wing stated. Sinking deeper into an economic mess, the corporation has seen its liabilities increase from Rs 6,176 crore last year to Rs 7,524 crore this year. The extent of crisis can be gauged from the fact that over 1/3rd (37.4%) of overall expenditure of Rs 9,205.9 crore now directly depends on expected loan. With the commissioner unwell, the additional commissioner delivered the annual budget proposals for 2021-22 on Tuesday in a special standing committee meeting held at Civic Centre. The additional commissioner said that the corporation would focus on expediting 17 revenue generating and property redevelopment projects to pull the troubled civic body out of debt and also new major infrastructure projects were being taken up. “We want to focus on systemic changes in existing taxes, increasing the tax net and tightening the system,” the official added. The budget also pleads the House of councillors to make alternative arrangements like seeking a special grant or long term low interest loan. “We are confident that when the remunerative projects start being realised, we shall be able to repay such loans,” the budget states. Many of the redevelopment projects, such as Azadpur, Rohini, Minto Road and Bungalow Road staff quarter and Town Hall redevelopment, have remained pending from several years and have been recycled in budget speeches by several successive corporation functionaries. The north corporation owns several prime properties but has so far been unable to use them for revenue generation. The reserve price for Azadpur and Model town projects alone is over Rs 15,392 crore. The budgetary proposals claim that pandemic has severely impacted its revenue sources and Delhi government has released only Rs 212.5 crore out of the provision of Rs 850 crore. Another 106.2 crore has been deducted for loan recovery. The budget states that the process has been started for 17 multi-level car parking projects that will create additional space for 12,915 vehicles. Following the loan repayment, which now accounts for staggering 27.7% of budgetary expenditure, the sanitation department has received 20.5% budget allocation. The corporation intends to soon hire private concessionaires for collecting and disposing municipal waste from Karol Bagh, City SP and Narela zones and also complete the process for privatising the toilet block maintenance. Some of the new ideas proposed by the additional commissioner include setting up electric charging stations at 127 spots, redevelopment of old disused toilet complexes as coffee houses, cyber cafes; creating a dog body incinerator and creation of five new mini-forests. The civic body has also set up an annual target of in-house generation of 15.4 lakh units of solar power. On being asked about the estimated time it would take to pull out the corporation from its financial mess, the additional commissioner said: “No one knows how much time it may take, but we will make all possible efforts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-a-third-of-north-corpn-budget-now-based-on-loans-no-new-taxes/articleshow/79632118.cms||Paras Singh
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Traffic turning blind eye to concrete blocks on roads, vehicles parked on NHs||Ludhiana: Amid the ongoing winter, when smog has started hitting the outer areas of the city in early morning hours, the Ludhiana traffic police will have to give attention towards road safety to avert accidents. A few days back the traffic cops had distributed pamphlets among the commuters at Bharat Nagar chowk, sharing tips for driving in foggy weather. There are several spots in Ludhiana, where the authorities have kept concrete blocks either for diversions or to narrow the lane for streamlining traffic flow. However, the authorities have not pasted any reflector tapes on it to avert any mishap in the night. Besides, the problem of vehicles parked on the road side is also being ignored. Near Chand Cinema, when commuters move from Jalandhar bypass towards Jagraon bridge, some concrete blocks have been kept in the middle of the road, so that only one or two vehicles could cross by at one point of time. Further, at Basti Jodhewal chowk, in the service lane, concrete blocks have been kept on both sides. Similarly, after crossing Gill bridge of Sidhwan canal, when commuters move towards Gill village, some concrete blocks are kept there too to restrict commuters from taking a U-turn. However, on all these blocks, no reflector tape is pasted for commuters to make them aware about their presence while driving during the night. A resident of Gill village, Mangal Singh, said, “Since last year, these concrete blocks have been kept near Gill bridge on the canal without any reflector tape or paint on them. The Ludhiana-Malerkotla road usually gets heavy traffic flow. Any day an accident may occur here. The authorities should either install reflectors or reflecting paint on the blocks or should replace it with traffic cones for the safety of commuters.” Another city resident of Shekhewal road Paras Gulati said, “The blocks kept near Chand cinema are there for managing the traffic flow. But these too are unsafe. If somebody mistakenly or accidently loses balance while driving a vehicle and crashes into these blocks, he would certainly get more injuries because of the concrete blocks. I don’t think there is a need to paste reflectors on these blocks, but I think these blocks should immediately be removed from the roads.” Besides, the problem of stationary vehicles on the road is also becoming a big traffic hazard, especially on national highways. Every year several accidents occur due to vehicles parked on the road without any reflectors or blinkers. Vehicles can be seen parked on the Ludhiana- Chandigarh highway and Ludhiana Delhi highway as well, despite the ban order issued by the commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/traffic-turning-blind-eye-to-concrete-blocks-on-roads-vehicles-parked-on-nhs/articleshow/79612786.cms||Payal Dhawan
December 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||In Kerala, RSS leader says Christians, Hindus should stand united||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: RSS leader KR Umakanthan has called for unity among Hindus and Christians in the state to deal with the threats of political Islam. In an article written in BJP mouthpiece, Janmabhumi daily, on Sunday, Umakanthan argued that attempts at Islamisation are a threat to Hindus and Christians alike and a weak Hindu or Christian leadership alone can’t fight Islamic terrorists. The words of Umakanthan is a clear indication of the implementation of a long-term strategy of BJP to establish its base in state. Since there is a considerable presence of Christians and Muslims across the state, BJP had found it difficult to register electoral wins through consolidation of Hindu votes alone. Umakanthan had been BJP’s organizational secretary of state until a few years ago. “The situation is such that both fronts are surrendering to Islamist terror organisations and religious fanatics. They are sacrificing social interests before organized vote banks. A democratic resistance needs to be built up against the fronts which meekly surrender before the organized political bargaining by Muslim organizations. It is the need of the hour to stand united against the common threat before society,” he wrote. Referring to love jihad, the RSS leader claimed forces which seek conversion through marriage target women from both communities. The article noted that both Christians and Muslims were trying to make India a religious country based on their religions. “Though both sections are trying for religious conversions, the methods adopted are different. Not all sects of Christianity try for religious conversions. Though Catholic and Pentecostal churches attempt conversion, they never take violent routes. They use education, healthcare and personal assistance as methods for conversion. There are no Christian terrorist organizations. Countries that have embraced Christianity as official religion believe in democracy. But, most Islamic nations are religious states. Their aim is to transform religious belief into political Islam and establish Islamist world. They view Jihad as their duty and right,” he added. Pointing out that intolerance is the root cause for Islamic terrorism, he said, “There are people who criticise Modi for Islamist attacks in India. They should think why there are Islamist attacks in other countries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/christians-hindus-should-stand-united/articleshow/79612784.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Location finalised for 100-ft YSR statue||Amaravati: Placing the government’s plans to erect a statue of late chief minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy at the Polavaram project on the fast-track, senior officials and architects visited the project site to identify the location. A 100-feet-high statue of YSR will come up at the Polavaram project. AP Green and Beautification Corporation (APGBC) managing director N Chandra Mohan Reddy, technical GM D Balaram Reddy and irrigation DEE Balakrishna inspected the site on G-Hill near Polavaram project and finalised the location for the statue. The state government’s decision to install a statue of Y S Rajasekhara Reddy at the project site is a recognition of YSR’s efforts in initiating the mega irrigation project when he was chief minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh. Despite objections raised by several leaders from the Telangana region, YSR went ahead with laying the foundation for the project as he visualised that the completion of the Polavaram project would help all three regions of the state. His decision to allow contractors to complete the canal works ahead of the completion of the dam work had in fact helped the state post bifurcation to get Godavari water to the Krishna delta. However, project works slowed down following the sudden demise of YSR in 2009. During the bifurcation of the state, the UPA government at the Centre had granted national project status to Polavaram and promised to extend full financial assistance for its completion as part of incentives for losing the capital city of Hyderabad to Telangana. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at the recently-concluded assembly session made the announcement that he was going to complete the Polavaram project as per schedule. “The project was launched by my father and I am going to complete and dedicate it to the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/location-finalised-for-100-ft-ysr-statue/articleshow/79612779.cms||Samdani MN
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Opposition trying to create chaos, disorder: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said the Opposition parties, mainly Congress , were trying to create an atmosphere of disharmony in the country by using innocent farmers who have always been given a raw deal by them. Reacting to the Opposition's support to the Bharat Bandh call given by agitating farmers, the CM also criticized the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party for supporting the previous Congress-led UPA government on the issue of reforms in the APMC Act and opposing the same when brought in by the NDA government. “Opposition parties are taking a U-turn on the issue and they should apologise to farmers,” he said at a press conference here on Monday. “Opposition kisanon ke kandhe ka istemal kar ke desh mein ashanti phaila raha hai” (the opposition is vitiating the peaceful atmosphere of the country in the garb of supporting farmers,” Yogi said. He said the Congress, SP and BSP were losing one election after another and being rejected by people but were not desisting from misleading farmers for their vested interest. Yogi reiterated that the farm laws were beneficial for farmers. The CM reminded that Sharad Pawar, the agriculture minister in UPA-2, had sent a letter to all the CMs of the country to espouse the cause of a model act affecting amendment in the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. “The Congress steered the move while it was supported by NCP, SP, BSP and TMC. These parties also supported the Narendra Modi government during deliberations on the issue in the standing committee but now they have betrayed their commitment to create a state of anarchy,” he said. “The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already issued notification for the implementation of new law but it is supporting Bharat Bandh call,” he said. Not only this, almost all the opposition parties had included the amendment in APMC Act in their election manifesto and the patriarch of SP Mulayam Singh Yadav and the leaders of TMC, Congress and TMC had stressed the need for amending APMC Act during the meetings of the standing committee of parliament. The CM said this is most ironic that the same parties which once advocated "One Nation, One Market' are showing their 'dual character' for which they owe an apology to the nation. “What is most painful is the fact that the Opposition is misleading the farmers and challenging the government at a time when it is fighting a decisive battle against deadly coronavirus. The Opposition is putting the lives and health of agitating farmers in danger,” Yogi remarked. “The Modi government introduced major agri reforms while the Congress only exploited the farmers during 55 years of its governance,” he said. He said the central government not only started the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Yojana and other insurance schemes for the welfare of farmers and their crop but was also introducing the concept of ‘One Nation, One market’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/oppn-trying-to-create-chaos-disorder-yogi/articleshow/79615165.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Birders cheer rare south Bengal black eagle sighting||Kolkata: The black eagle (Ictinaetus malaiensis) has reportedly made an official entry into the records of West Bengal Biodiversity Board as a very rare sighting in south Bengal. The raptor was recently spotted in Salboni, West Midnapore. While eBird, a popular online database of bird observations, has records of its earlier sightings from South Bengal, till now “there was no government record to show its presence in south Bengal”. “It is a rare spotting as there is no record to show that a black eagle was seen in south Bengal. The last record, which I can recollect, is from the Himalayan foothills of West Bengal,” said Asok Kanti Sanyal, chairman of the West Bengal Biodiversity Board. A team of birders, including Suman Pratihar, Nilay Mandal and Rakesh Ghosh spotted the bird at a village in Salboni last week. “We were surprised with the spotting on the first day and we immediately sent our findings to Bill Clark, an authority on raptor identification and taxonomy. He corroborated our spotting,” Pratihar said. Bird watchers, though, have in the recent past claimed to have spotted it in Bankura and Purulia. “We go through certain checks before something is posted on eBird. If it is an unusual species, it goes through certain filters. We have reviewers who cross-check the claim and consult experts at the national levels if needed,” said Sujan Chatterjee, secretary of Bird Watchers’ Society and a reviewer with eBird.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birders-cheer-rare-south-bengal-black-eagle-sighting/articleshow/79614016.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||City blogger held for social media post||Howrah: A blogger was arrested from his Lake Town residence on Monday for allegedly spreading communal disharmony through posts on social media and a blogging site. The accused, Subho Sengupta — admin of a blogging site and its Facebook page — claimed that he was a BJP worker. He allegedly took a screenshot of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Facebook page, where a message on the death anniversary of a prominent freedom fighter and minority leader was written, and allegedly made controversial posts. After a compliant was lodged with Howrah City Police’s cyber crime cell by a Howrah resident, cops arrested Sengupta, who was charged with disturbing communal harmony under relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act. A Howrah court remanded the accused in police custody for two days, an officer of Howrah City Police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-blogger-held-for-social-media-post/articleshow/79614019.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Residents reel under long power cuts, shortage of water supply||Ludhiana: Residents in several parts of the city continue to suffer due to regular power cuts and shortage of water supply. Monday was no different as several localities faced disruption for up to eight hours. The electricity supply was snapped in many areas, including,Deep Nagar, Mundian Khurd, Tagore Nagar, Udham Singh Nagar, New DMC, Dussehra ground, Upkar Nagar, Prem Nagar, Rajpura Road, Kitchlu Nagar, KVM School, BVM School, Guru Nanak Pura, Chawwni Mohalla, Salem Tapri, Dana Mandi, Sabzi Mandi, Nanak Nagar, Chandni chowk, Bhora, Silver Kunj, Janakpuri, Ashok Nagar, Jalandhar bypass, Peeru Banda, Aman Nagar, Manna Singh Nagar, Pink Vihar, Saroop Nagar, Ashok Nagar, New Aman Nagar, Royal City, Maskeen Nagar, Rishi Nagar (all blocks) ,Shere Punjab Colony, Punj Peer road, Joshi Nagar, New Tagore Nagar, Islamganj, Prem Nagar and adjoining areas. The residents had to remain without electricity for several hours. Several residents rued that during the Covid times, the problem was felt even more acutely as work from home and online education had become the norm. “Power cuts are the biggest problem in our city. Lots of people are made to suffer because of it. I had my college presentation on Sunday, which I had to cancel just because my laptop was not charged and my phone’s battery was also almost dead,” said Simarpreet Singh Madhok, a student from Dugri. A businessman at Miller Ganj, Gurpreet Singh Kharbanda, said, “Most of the time there are power cuts in the industrial area, which are leading to losses. Production is affected badly because of this.” Ashish Lakhanpal of Chhawni Mohalla said, “Power went off at 9am. It is unjustified. On one hand, the government has increased power rates and on the other it has failed to provide power and thus made people suffer. Children too cannot concentrate on studies in such conditions.” “Power cut nowadays is a very big problem as due to these power cuts, streetlights become non-functional and this becomes an open invitation for accidents. It will lead to great loss of work for the people who are working from home. So, special efforts should be made regarding this,” said Twinkle Jindal, a resident of Bajra Mohalla. Engineer-in-chief, PSPCL, Ludhiana, Bhupinder Khosla, said, “Due to urgent and unnecessary maintenance work, 11kv feeder Ludhiana remained shut on Monday and power supply remained affected in some areas. We had already informed about this maintenance work in advance in all areas where the supply was to be affected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-reel-under-long-power-cuts-shortage-of-water-supply/articleshow/79612794.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Elderly should get fruits of speedy justice: HC||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday made a number of statements on disposing cases related to senior citizens. The high court bench headed by Justice Battu Devanand, disposing of a civil revision petition on a land issue between 80-year-old Pelluri Venkata Hanumantha Krishna Murthy Sharma and Pelluri Venkata Lakshmi Narasimha Rao, stated, “It is the duty of the courts to see that senior citizens shall be given priority for early disposal of their cases to enable them to enjoy the fruits of litigation during their lifetime. The courts have to remember that the right to speedy trial of cases before courts is recognised to be a part of the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.” The court found fault with the delay in disposing the petition from 2011. “In view of the fact that the petitioners are aged about 80 years and 72 years respectively and this court noticed from the record that some of the respondents are also senior citizens, they have to feel happy and they have to get fruits of the litigation by rendering speedy justice to them,” the judgment stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/elderly-should-get-fruits-of-speedy-justice-hc/articleshow/79612789.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||Coffee Day appoints late Siddhartha’s wife as CEO||BENGALURU: Coffee Day Enterprises (CDEL) has appointed Malavika Hegde as its chief executive officer with effect from Monday, almost one and half years after her late husband and founder VG Siddhartha took his own life, alleging pressure from debtors. Hegde, like her late husband, has always kept a low profile and continued to do so after the demise of Siddhartha, the man credited with creating India’s first private coffee chain and a coffee culture in the country. She made a rare public statement earlier this year saying that the challenges for the company are “far from over” and “corrective course of action needs to be adopted” even though the investigative report has been submitted. In July 2019, soon after Siddhartha's demise, CDEL appointed SV Ranganath as interim chairman. Hegde, who is the daughter of former Karnataka chief minister SM Krishna, takes over at a time when the company continues to be in dire straits due to a pile of debt and is looking to sell some of its assets to pare them. The Tata Group is in talks to buy Coffee Day Group’s vending machine business. But that is said to have hit a hurdle as two lenders, Yes Bank and Rabobank, have raised objections to the deal, arguing that the coffee chain must clear its dues to them. The company’s debt stood at Rs 3,200 crore in July, down from Rs 7,200 crore at the start of 2019. A report by former CBI DIG Ashok Malhotra had said the company failed to set up a profitable business model as it was based on high cost loans, and PE investments carrying high rates of return. The report also said there was no documentary evidence to establish harassment from tax authorities as alleged by Siddhartha. In a letter to the board, Siddhartha said he faced tremendous pressure from lenders, apart from harassment by income tax authorities over a deal to sell his stake in Mindtree. CDEL reported a loss of Rs 92 crore against revenue of Rs 219 crore for the second quarter ended September 30. Its coffee business had 679 cafe outlets and 49,547 vending machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coffee-day-appoints-late-siddharthas-wife-as-ceo/articleshow/79616425.cms||Avik Das
December 8, 2020||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav stopped from reaching Kannauj for farmers’ stir||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav was detained on Monday afternoon for violation of prohibitory orders in Lucknow when he staged a sit-in at Raj Bhawan intersection after he was stopped from heading to Kannauj to lead a Kisan Yatra in support of the farmers’ protest against the new farm laws. Akhilesh along with hundreds of party workers was taken to the Eco Park where he remained in police custody for five hours before they were released. Police action in Lucknow triggered widespread protests by SP workers across the state. Police said Akhilesh Yadav was detained under Section 188 of the CrPC and provisions of the Epidemic Act for violation of Section 144 which prohibits assembly of four or more people at a public place. Action was initiated against other party workers under Section 151 of the CrPC and other provisions of law, police added. Earlier, speaking to reporters during the sit-in, Akhilesh described the police action as a reflection of the BJP’s dictatorial functioning. “I don’t know why I am being stopped from going to Kannauj. What is the government afraid of. Police have seized my vehicles to stop me but I will head to Kannauj if need be,” Akhilesh said. Later, Akhilesh also shot a letter to Lok Sabha Speaker complaining about police restrictions on his movement in the state. Accusing the BJP government of neglecting farmers, the SP chief said the government has brought laws to deprive the farmers of their land in the days to come. “The government is systematically shutting down mandis (farm markets) and is yet to fulfil its promise of doubling the income of farmers,” he said. “When will the government bring a law that will ensure that the income of farmers is doubled,” he asked. Akhilesh said no matter how hard the government tries to crush SP’s protest, its party leaders and workers will stand by the protesting farmers till the end. Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur said that all those having categorised security have to inform about their movement in advance as a security protocol. “Former CM Akhilesh Yadav had informed me and DM Kannauj about his movement to join farmers’ agitation in Kannauj. However, late on Sunday we received a message from DM Kannauj citing Covid-19 condition to not allow movement of Akhilesh Yadav. Based upon this request, we had made adequate security arrangement and when Akhilesh Yadav staged a sit-in at Bandariya Bagh crossing, he was detained and taken in a police vehicle to Eco-garden and later released,” Thakur told TOI. Police went after SP leaders and workers across the state to stop them from heading to Kannauj for the kisan rally. In Ballia, SP veteran and leader of the opposition in the state assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary, was stopped from heading to Kannauj, while former SP MP Dharmendra Yadav was arrested for leading a Kisan Yatra in Budaun. Reports of protesting SP workers being put under house arrest or taken into custody while leading party workers to Kannauj also came from 29 districts including Ghaziabad, Meerut, Amebedkarnagar, Kanpur, Varanasi. Police had laid siege outside the residence of Akhilesh Yadav and the party office, both located on Vikramaditya Marg in Lucknow, at day break on Monday. SP workers jostled with the police and broke through the barricades on several occasions at Raj Bhawan crossing while heading towards Vikramaditya Marg. As the news about the police action spread, party leaders started heading for SP headquarters. The first to arrive were party MLCs, Ashu Malik and Rajpal Kashyap. They were stopped from heading towards the party headquarters and taken into preventive custody when they tried to defy the restrictions. SP workers began to gather at the protest site till Akhilesh Yadav finally stepped outside the house around 12:30pm. Once the police stopped him from getting into his vehicle, Akhilesh started off on foot and pushed through the barricading outside his residence to reach the Bandariya Bagh intersection. He staged a dharna in the middle of the road and was arrested an hour later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-stopped-from-reaching-kannauj-for-farmers-stir/articleshow/79615217.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: App-based loan companies harassing defaulters to recover money||VISAKHAPATNAM: While quick documentation processes have made it easier for people to attain instant loans, the rise in incidents arising from an inability to pay back short-term personal loans from app-based lenders has become a cause of concern. Many of these lenders charge very high interest rates and when a borrower fails to pay back, they may take advantage of the access given on the phone through the app to make calls and send defamatory messages to the borrower’s contacts. For instance, if a person applies for a loan of Rs 4,000, the lender after approving the loan sanctions only around Rs 2,800 while deducting the rest as processing fee. Within seven days, the borrower has to pay back around Rs 5,300 including interest thus leaving the borrower having to pay back nearly double of what they took in the first place. “Such online apps are very dangerous. In case of a default, they (lenders) start by sending messages to numbers on your phone book to embarrass you. Then they start sending fake FIR reports to threaten you. Their interest rates are quite high and many people fall into the trap because the loans are easily available,” said a senior police official. In one such case in November, a woman in her early twenties died by suicide in Visakhapatnam after failing to repay the loans taken from such online loan apps. Investigation revealed that the woman, who had just finished her MBA, had taken the extreme step after the lender started sending defamatory WhatsApp messages to contacts obtained from her cellphone. “In order to get the loan, you just need to download the app, fill in your details and upload of a photo of your Aadhaar or PAN card along with a selfie. There is no system of verifying your details and the lender just needs permission to access your phone book and should you deny, the loan request will be rejected,” the police official said. Those within the banking sector said that such apps mushroomed during the course of the lockdown after the outbreak of Covid-19. With many losing their jobs or facing salary cuts, such apps became popular as loans were easily available. “The biggest problem in such cases is that you cannot take legal steps against the lenders because it is hard to ascertain who the actual lender is. The only option is to file a police complaint who can then trace the details of the lender or lending companies through IP addresses or phone numbers through which the recovery agents make the calls and send messages,” explained MGM Khan, an advocate. Several borrowers across the state have filed complaints citing harassment by agents of such online loan apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/app-based-loan-cos-harassing-defaulters-to-recover-money/articleshow/79614625.cms||Arpit Basu
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor police seize red sanders consignment worth Rs 4 crore||TIRUPATI: Chittoor police seized red sanders logs worth Rs 4 crore and arrested eight smugglers near Puttur in the early hours on Monday. Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar told reporters that Chittoor DSP N Sudhakar Reddy and Puttur DSP TD Yeswanth and team were conducting vehicular searches near Taduku forest checkpost in the early hours on Monday when they noticed a mini truck approaching the checkpost at very high speed. Though the police signalled the truck driver to stop the vehicle, the driver managed to speed get past the checkpost without stopping the vehicle. The police teams at the checkpost felt that something was not right, followed the truck and stopped it after a chase. Police then seized 103 red sanders logs concealed inside the truck and arrested six smugglers. Meanwhile, Chittoor Taluk police arrested two smugglers and seized 65 red sanders logs and two vehicles near Murakambattu along the Tirupati-Bengaluru highway on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/police-seize-red-sanders-consignment-worth-rs-4-cr/articleshow/79614630.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM slams Congress, BJP over Manilal’s murder||KOLLAM: The killing of a party worker at Munroe Island in Kollam prompted the chief minister to criticize both Congress and BJP. In his Facebook Post, Pinarayi Vijayan said Manilal was killed on Sunday night when he was campaigning for the LDF candidate and that five CPM workers were killed over the past 110 days. All culprits will be brought to book, he said. There are reports BJP and UDF have forged an alliance in state for local body polls. They should make it clear whether these consecutive murders are part of their joint decision, he added. CPM politburo member MA Baby wrote on Facebook that the accused in the case, Ashokan, had joined RSS after availing voluntary retirement from Delhi police. He asked police to investigate the conspiracy behind Manilal’s murder. However, police said they were investigating the case and are yet to confirm whether Manilal’s killing was a political murder. CPM state secretariat, in a statement, pointed out that the prime accused in the murder case was given BJP membership directly by party state president. The secretariat said the upcoming polls would give a befitting reply to BJP and Congress. Rejecting CPM’s claim, BJP district leadership claimed that Manilal’s murder was part of CPM’s conspiracy. BJP district president BB Gopakumar alleged that Manilal’s murder was being thrust on BJP in view of CPM’s imminent electoral defeat. He reiterated that Manilal and Ashokan were CPM members. “Both men aren’t connected to BJP and RSS. All claims are baseless. It was personal enmity that led to the murder. CPM alleged political murder two hours after the incident,” he said, seeking an independent enquiry. According to BJP Munroe Island panchayat committee’s T Ashokan, the accused had a two-storeyed building which was leased out to one Rejilal, a CPM worker and CPM workers were misusing the facility for anti-social activities. Ashokan’s wife questioned this and forced Rejilal to vacate the building, leading to problems. He claimed that Manilal was remanded in prison in an abkari case for two months and these incidents have direct link to the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-slams-cong-bjp-over-manilals-murder/articleshow/79612870.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Two more Metro stations to open soon||Nagpur: The Shankar Nagar and Rachna Ring Road Junction stations of Nagpur Metro are likely to open for public in a day or two, after the commissioner of Metro rail safety (CMRS) Janak Kumar Garg issued their safety certificates. Both stations are located on Sitabuldi-Lokmanya Nagar stretch of Nagpur Metro. CMRS Garg and his team had inspected the two stations last week. The officials had inspected the safety arrangements, passenger amenities, lifts, escalators etc and expressed satisfaction. As on date, sixteen Metro stations are operational on Sitabuldi-Khapri and Sitabuldi-Lokmanya Nagar stretches. Soon, the number will increase to eighteen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-more-metro-stations-to-open-soon/articleshow/79614328.cms||Ashish Roy
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Hinganghat PI transferred as man dies after argument with cops||Wardha: Superintendent of police Prashant Holkar on Monday transferred police inspector Bhanudas Pidurkar of Hinganghat police station while constable Arif Farooqi was suspended as tension prevailed in the town over death of a hotelier’s father after an argument with the cops. The incident occurred on Sunday night at Laziz Hotel in Hinganghat. According to information, Pidurkar and Farooqi visited the hotel during night patrolling. According to sources, the cops questioned Shadab over keeping the hotel open till late in the night. An argument ensued, and the hotel director Shadab Mirza was allegedly beaten up by police, said the sources. The sources also alleged that the cops were demanding money from the hotelier. Shadab called his brother Humayun and father Haji Mirza Pervez Beg for help. Mirza was allegedly insulted by the police. He suffered a heart attack and collapsed on the spot. He was rushed to a private hospital where the doctor declared him dead, said sources.In the meanwhile, Pidurkar left the hotel and reached the police station. Some citizens too reached there and damaged the police vehicle and pelted stones. The incident caused tension in the town.Later, Shadab lodged a police complaint against Pidurkar and Farooqi. Haji Mirza’s supporters demanded action against the cops.According to sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Piyush Jagtap, SP Prashant Holkar immediately transferred Pidurkar to the district police control room. Police inspector Satyaveer Bandiwar was made in-charge of Hinganghat police station. Police teams from other districts have been summoned and SDPO Jagtap is monitoring the situation, said the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hinganghat-pi-transferred-as-man-dies-after-argument-with-cops/articleshow/79614380.cms||Balwant Dhage
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cops recover lost gold ornaments within hrs||Visakhapatnam: Swift action by city police helped a family recover 235 grams of gold jeweller worth around Rs 12 lakh within a matter of hours. The family had lost the jewellery while on a shopping trip at Jagadamba Centre on Sunday evening. The bag containing the gold was found by two auto-rickshaw drivers who spilt it among themselves. According to DCP (crimes) V Suresh Babu, P Venkateswara Rao of Akkayyapalem had come to Jagadamba Centre in his car with his family to visit a showroom. While leaving the car, the bag with the gold ornaments fell from his wife’s possession but went unnoticed. Upon realising the bag was missing, Rao and his family approached MR Peta police station and lodged a complaint. MP Peta police, led by Inspector Ch Simhadri Naidu, acted swiftly to trace the missing bag. While examining CCTV footage of the area, it was noticed that an auto-rickshaw driver had picked up the orange-coloured bag which belonged to the complainant. Naidu, who is also the nodal officer for community policing of auto drivers, made a call to union leaders and traced the auto driver. The driver told police he had found the bag with the ornaments and had shared the gold with another driver. The gold was recovered by police and returned to the complainants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-recover-lost-gold-ornaments-within-hrs/articleshow/79612817.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Missing AP CISF constable case: Will transfer probe to CBI, warns Del HC||Vijayawada: The Delhi high court on Monday rapped the Delhi crime branch for its laxity in investigating a six-month-old case of a missing CISF constable Venkat Rao Godi from Andhra Pradesh. Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar warned that they would order CBI to take over the case. Venkat Rao went missing on May 26 this year after visiting his office at Dhaula Kuan to seek clearance to his leave application to visit his native place in East Godavari along with his wife and 70-year-old father. After local police registered a missing case, another FIR was lodged at Usmanpur police station under IPC section 365 (kidnapping or abduction with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine a person) on September 17 on the direction of the high court. The case was later transferred to the Delhi crime branch and the probe was supervised by DSP Monika Bharadwaj. The crime branch has already filed two status reports on the case, but has not made much headway. “We are not at all satisfied with the investigation. We will have to change the investigating agency. We may ask the CBI or some other independent agency to probe the case,” Justice Sanghi told Delhi police counsel Chaitanya Gosain. The court made the comment after hearing a habeas corpus petition filed by Venkat Rao’s wife. Advocates K Sravan Kumar and R Balaji submitted that she suspected foul play in the disappearance of her husband as he was constantly being harassed by his immediate boss who was refusing to grant him leave despite compelling reasons. It was also submitted that Venkat Rao was forced to forego his weekly offs and called at odd times for work despite the country being in a lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/missing-ap-cisf-constable-case-will-transfer-probe-to-cbi-warns-del-hc/articleshow/79614697.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 8, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh reports 316 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 170 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 316 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,72,288. This is the lowest single-day case total in the state in the last 170 days, after recording 351 infections on June 17. The toll jumped to 7,038 as five more people succumbed to the virus. Two deaths were reported from Krishna, and the other three were from Anantapur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam. As many as 595 patients were declared cured. There are currently 5,626 active cases, with 8,59,624 cumulative recoveries and 7,038 fatalities. Other than Guntur (87 infections), all the 12 other districts posted less than 50 cases to the table on Monday. For the first time in months, four districts recorded single-digit case numbers, with Vizianagaram reporting as low as three cases. Despite registering about 60,300 cumulative cases, the active cases in Kurnool district dropped to 91 as of Monday. Other than Krishna, the active cases are less than 1,000 in the remaining 12 districts, with Kurnool and Vizianagaram achieving 99% recovery rate. As many as 43,006 Covid-19 samples were tested in last 24 hours to detect 316 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 1%. Overall mortality rate stands at 0.8%. With declining case numbers, nearly 92% beds are vacant at the 117 Covid-19 hospitals in AP. Of the 26,436 beds available, only 2,036 beds are occupied. There are about 1,600 ventilators and 3,541 ICU beds available in these hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-reports-316-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-170-days/articleshow/79617493.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||Three persons washed away near Tirupati||TIRUPATI: Three persons, including two women, were washed away when they were trying to cross a bridge near Gajulamandyam, about 13 kilometres from Tirupati, on Monday evening. Gajulamandyam police station SI Chiranjeevi said the missing persons have been identified as Gangaiah (55), Sujatha (42) and Yashoda (36), all residents of Kallur. “They had gone to attend a funeral at Gajulamandyam Harizanawada and were returning home in the evening. While trying to cross a makeshift bridge on foot to get to the main road, one of the women accidentally slipped and fell into swirling waters. The other two desperately tried to save her but they too slipped and fell into the waters in the process and were washed away,” he said. Gajulamandyam police rushed to the spot immediately and launched rescue operations. Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy too rushed to Gajulamandyam and is personally overseeing the rescue operations. While police have managed to recover the body of Yashoda (36), the other two are yet to be traced. Police had to wind up their rescue operations due to heavy rain and darkness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-persons-washed-away-near-tirupati/articleshow/79612871.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Vehicles without FASTag will pay double toll from January 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: As part of the National Highways Authority of India’s (NHAI) decision to make toll plazas cashless from the new year, vehicles without a FASTag will have to pay double the toll as a fine from January 1, 2021. Despite the launch of FASTag lanes at toll plazas earlier this year, each toll plaza under NHAI’s ambit has at least one cash payment lane. These lanes will be withdrawn at midnight on December 31. “Our record states that at least 20 per cent of motorists using the highways have not enabled their vehicles with the FASTag service. Most of these vehicles are private ones and since the owners are not sure whether they will travel on the highway regularly they are reluctant to get the FASTag. We would request all vehicle owners to make their vehicles FASTag-enabled as it will not cost them even if they are not taking the highway,” NHAI project director (Visakhapatnam) P Siva Shankar told TOI. Officials of NHAI assured that the amount in a FASTag will not go to waste and vehicle owners can use it whenever they take the highway. To get an RFID tag, vehicle owners have to provide the vehicle registration certificate and KYC (Know Your Client) details, along with a payment of Rs 500. While the tag costs Rs 100, the balance amount acts as a security deposit and for top-up. “Once we go cashless, no vehicle will have to stop at a toll plaza. FASTag readers are installed overhead in toll plazas. As vehicles pass beneath them, the RFID code affixed on the windscreen will be automatically detected and the necessary amount deducted from the prepaid balance. There will hardly be any queues in toll plazas,” added Siva Kumar. All eight toll plazas under the NHAI Visakhapatnam – Anakapalle, Aganampudi, Nathavalasa, Chilakapalem, Madapam, Lakshmipuram (Odisha border) and toll plazas on the Port Connectivity Road — are already FASTagenabled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vehicles-without-fastag-will-pay-double-toll-from-january-1/articleshow/79614613.cms||Arpit Basu
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||2nd phase of Nizampatnam harbour gets AP govt sanction||GUNTUR: The state government has decided to complete the second phase of Nizampatnam fishing harbour at a cost of Rs 451 crore. The project is being envisaged as a standalone coastal structure with a proposed fish landing capacity of 62,000 tonnes per annum. The harbour’s facilities will be designed to accommodate 1,600 motor boats, nearly three to four times the anchoring capacity of the current harbour. The harbour is being made to accommodate different sizes of motor boats. “We are planning to complete the harbour within two years,” said YSRC’s Rajya Sabha member, Mopidevi Venkata Ramana who had strongly lobbied to attain funds for the project. Mopidevi, who hails from the fishermen community and has represented the Repalle constituency which covers Nizamapatnam, said the construction of the fishing harbour’s second phase was a promise made by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s promise to local fishermen which he has fulfilled by giving the green light for the project. The second phase of the harbour is expected to benefit fishermen from Guntur and Prakasam districts who were otherwise finding it difficult to anchor their boats during bad weather. The harbour has been planned to include more facilities such as cold storage units, boat parking areas, boat repair shops, rest rooms for fishermen among others. “A separate fish handling and auction hall will also come up as part of the second phase project,” said fisheries joint director, AV Raghava Reddy. He added that a drying yard, fresh water and sea water overhead tank will also be constructed. The government is also setting up three separate aqua testing laboratories in the district for the benefit of the industry and fishermen. While one laboratory in Ponnur is already up and running, three new ones will come up at Repalle, Bapatla, and Vinukonda. The laboratories will help test aqua feed and prevent supply of adulterated feed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2nd-phase-of-nizampatnam-harbour-gets-govt-sanction/articleshow/79612448.cms||Samdani MN
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 316 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in 170 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 316 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,72,288. This is the lowest single-day case total in the state in the last 170 days, after recording 351 infections on June 17. The toll jumped to 7,038 as five more people succumbed to the virus. Two deaths were reported from Krishna, and the other three were from Anantapur, Kadapa and Visakhapatnam. As many as 595 patients were declared cured. There are currently 5,626 active cases, with 8,59,624 cumulative recoveries and 7,038 fatalities. Other than Guntur (87 infections), all the 12 other districts posted less than 50 cases to the table on Monday. For the first time in months, four districts recorded single-digit case numbers, with Vizianagaram reporting as low as three cases. Despite registering about 60,300 cumulative cases, the active cases in Kurnool district dropped to 91 as of Monday. Other than Krishna, the active cases are less than 1,000 in the remaining 12 districts, with Kurnool and Vizianagaram achieving 99% recovery rate. As many as 43,006 Covid-19 samples were tested in last 24 hours to detect 316 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 1%. Overall mortality rate stands at 0.8%. With declining case numbers, nearly 92% beds are vacant at the 117 Covid-19 hospitals in AP. Of the 26,436 beds available, only 2,036 beds are occupied. There are about 1,600 ventilators and 3,541 ICU beds available in these hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-316-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-170-days/articleshow/79612478.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Humble village pond to turn tourist attraction||VISAKHAPATNAM: A large pond at Peddapadu village, on the entrance to Srikakulam town, is about to turn into a tourist attraction soon. The Srikakulam District Water Management Agency (DWMA), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), revenue and tourism departments have jointly decided to turn this pond of 1.2km-bund length into a park by January, 2021. DWMA project director Hanumanthu Kurma Rao said that the pond was found with scrub jungle and remained unused for decades. It is categorised as a minor irrigation tank. During a recent visit to the pond, district collector J Nivas instructed that it be developed as a tourist spot. “We have preliminarily estimated Rs 28 lakh (as cost) for initial work of the project on behalf of our department. Other allied departments will join us in the middle of project works. We will begin the civil works on December 7,” Kurma Rao told TOI According to Kurma Rao, the project will be taken up under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS). The scrub jungle would be cleared along the bund, which is 1.2 kilometres in length. The bund will be widened to 40–50 feet from the existing 18 feet. The park is expected to have a food court, a walking track and recreational facilities for children and senior citizens including boating. Since the pond is located on NH-16 (Chennai-Kolkata) road, and 10km away from Srikakulam town, NHAI is said to have come forward to provide gravel and other material required for the project. The tourism department is expected to get involved once the project opens for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/humble-village-pond-to-turn-tourist-attraction/articleshow/79614689.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Woman crushed to death; two booked||LUDHIANA: Sidhwan Bet police have booked two persons for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after one of them allegedly crushed a woman, from whom he had taken money, under a tractor. The accused have been identified as Paramjit Singh of Gorsiyan Khan Mohammad and his accomplice Gurdev Singh of the same village. Sardool Singh of the village, who is a brother of the deceased, Raj Kaur, told cops that Paramjit owed Rs 7,000 to his sister and he had returned Rs 2,000. He alleged that the accused was not retuning the remaining amount. The complainant said that on Sunday around 8am they after taking a round of their fields were returning home and his sister was going ahead. He added that around that time Paramjit, along with accomplice, was going from Gorsiyan towards Kadar Baksh area. Sardool said that as his sister stopped him and asked him to return money, he started arguing and told her that he wouldn’t give it. He added that as the accused drove his tractor ahead, he crushed his sister under the wheels after which she died. The complainant later informed the police about the matter. On being informed, cops from Sidhwan Bet Police station reached the spot and started a probe into the matter. It later booked the accused under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. Sidhwan Bet police station SHO inspector Rajesh Thakur said that the accused were yet to be arrested and a manhunt had been launched to nab them. He added that the complainant and the accused were neighbours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-crushed-to-death-two-booked/articleshow/79612815.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA to ready master plan road by December-end||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) is planning to complete construction works on the master plan road that passes through Visakha Valley School. The existing 20-feet road is being extended to a width of 60 feet. VMRDA commissioner P Koteswara Rao recently directed officials to complete road works by the end of December. According to VMRDA officials, the project has affected a part of the wall and classrooms of Visakha Valley School, Food Crafts Institute, Kuchipudi Kalakshetram and other buildings along the road. The VMRDA will rebuild the damaged structures for these institutions at a cost of Rs 2.41 crore apart from spending Rs 5.93 crore on road works. The 1.6-km road connects to the national highway and Vizag-Bheemili road. As the VMRDA needed some land from the forest department for the master plan road, it had allocated alternative land to the forest department near Gudilova. Commuting on this 20-feet road has been a problem as no two four-wheelers could pass side-by-side and one vehicle would have to wait till the other vehicle passed. Expansion of the city further northeastwards has also contributed to increased vehicular pressure on this stretch. According to VMRDA officials, expanding the road to a width of 60 feet will address the traffic issues along this stretch. The development body had allocated Rs 47 crore for development of various master plan roads in its 2020-21 budget.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-to-ready-master-plan-road-by-december-end/articleshow/79612866.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Youth protesters seek revocation of clearances to Mollem projects||Panaji: Around hundred youth danced in flash mobs, held ‘Save Our Future’ banners and shouted slogans of ‘Save Mollem’ outside the forest department headquarters at Altinho, Panaji on Monday. They submitted a memorandum to the principal conservator of forests, which stated that their prime demand was revocation of permissions to divert forest land for the three linear projects coming up through the Mollem wildlife sanctuary and national park. “We, the Youth of Goa, in order to protect our future, request that the clearances given for the three linear infrastructure projects in Mollem National Park and Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary (the widening of the NH-4A highway by the PWD, the double tracking of the railway line by South Western Railways and the laying of a 400kV transmission by Goa Tamnar) should be immediately stopped,” the memorandum stated.Other organisations protesting against the projects like Goencho Ekvott and Goyant Kollso Naka also turned up at the protest to support the agitating youth. “Government will have to listen to the people, so they should take note of what we are saying as soon as possible. We are protesting before the forest department to seek revocation of the permissions to fell trees for the projects. This will only destroy the environment. Goa has a target set by central government to achieve 360MW of solar power generation within two years. If this happens, we will generate our own electricity requirement. Having a high tension transmission line means burning of more coal in Chhattisgarh and this will lead to increased global warming,” activist Abhijit Prabhudesai of Goyant Kollso Naka. The three linear projects do not benefit the sanctuary or wildlife in any way and in fact will prove irreversibly destructive and damaging, the protesters said, under the Youth of Goa banner. “Apart from the importance of these 150 million year old forests, it is the lack of due process and scientific rigour when passing these projects that need to be urgently considered. The wildlife clearances are supposed to be based on the decisions of the state wildlife board - the state wildlife board members have come out in opposition to all three projects,” the protesters said in their memorandum to the principal chief conservator of forests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/youth-protesters-seek-revocation-of-clearances-to-mollem-projects/articleshow/79615260.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Bicholim locals want Chorao bridge||Bicholim: Residents of villages in Bicholim taluka, while welcoming chief minister Pramod Sawant’s decision to reduce the special ferry rates for the Chorao ferry, have demanded early construction of the Chorao-Ribandar bridge. Villagers of Chorao and Mayem were upset after the rates for special ferries were hiked from Rs 100 to Rs 250 on the Chorao-Ribandar route. This led Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye and Mayem BJP block members to demand that the CM reduce the rates. Based on the demands Sawant announced on Sunday that the special ferry charges have been reverted back to the old rate of Rs100. The special ferries are booked by locals when they have to travel at a time when the regular ferries are unavailable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicholim-locals-want-chorao-bridge/articleshow/79615248.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Sessions judge, staff quarantined||LUDHIANA: An additional district and sessions judge (AD&SJ) and his junior staff members have been quarantined after report of one of the employees of his court came Covid positive recently. The order by district and sessions judge on Monday suggested that a judge had given intimation last Saturday that an ahlmad of his court had informed him through email that his sample for Covid-19 was taken and he had tested positive for the disease. The said official had been actively working in his court till December 4 and during this period he came in contact of 10 officials. The order further said that as per the intimation, the members of judicial staff who had come in his contact included a reader, translator, JW, stenographer, crl ahlmad, additional ahlmad, usher, two orderlies and naib court. The order suggested that as a precautionary measure, the ahlmad is advised to undergo treatment/quarantine himself as per standard operating procedure and advice of medical authorities and shall take necessary precautions. The order indicated that the presiding office (AD&SJ) and officials of the court concerned who have come in contact with the ahlmad were also advised to go for home quarantine themselves as per the standard operating procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sessions-judge-staff-quarantined/articleshow/79612856.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||PIL in HC challenges U’khand’s new mining policy that waives environmental clearance, allows heavy machines on riverbeds; HC issues notices to state govt, Doon DM||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday issued notices to the state government as well as district magistrate (DM) of Dehradun after a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed in the court against the state government’s new mining policy that was introduced in January. The petitioners alleged that the state government, in its new mining policy, has waived off the mandatory environment clearance needed for mining on riverbeds. Further, heavy machines were allowed to operate on the riverbed even for collecting minor minerals while the earlier policy stipulated that only manual labour be allowed for mining. The petitioners added that the provisions of the new policy went against the orders of the Supreme Court (SC) and National Green Tribunal (NGT). “The state government’s policy will only hurt the already sensitive environment of the state,” said BP Nautiyal, the counsel appearing for the petitioners, RTI Club of Uttarakhand. Although the petitioners had pleaded the court to stay the tender floated last month inviting bids for mining, the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe refused to stay the process. As reported by TOI, another PIL was filed before the HC in June in which the petitioner – a resident of Haldwani – had challenged the government’s decision to allow heavy machines for mining. The petitioner had then alleged that mechanised mining has devastated the riverbeds, the local ecology and environment adding that “gigantic machines are excavating rivers in the state in the garb of semi-mechanised mining which is in violation of relevant rules.” The court had then issued notices to the state government as well as DMs of Dehradun, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar among others seeking their response. The case is still being heard by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pil-in-hc-challenges-ukhands-new-mining-policy-that-waives-environmental-clearance-allows-heavy-machines-on-riverbeds-hc-issues-notices-to-state-govt-doon-dm/articleshow/79612070.cms||Prashant Jha
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Farmers’ agitation at Del borders diverts vegetable supply to Doon; potato, onions prices fall||Dehardun: With several entry points to the national capital blocked as the farmers’ protest intensifies on its borders, supply of essential vegetables like potato and onion from Punjab and Haryana has been diverted from Delhi to Dehradun. As a result of this excess supply, these vegetables have become cheaper in Doon. The price of onion, for instance, has dropped from Rs 80 per kg to Rs 50 per kg (an almost 40% decline). Potatoes fell by more than half. Earlier sold for Rs 45 per kg, they are now around Rs 20 per kg. “With the supply diverted from Delhi to Dehradun, the prices of these vegetables will remain low till the stocks last. The price of onion had increased significantly sometime back. Thanks to this unexpected surge in supply, the price has now normalised,” said Ajay Dabral, mandi inspector at Dehradun’s Niranjanpur Mandi. Arjun Singh, a vegetable vendor near Nehru colony said, “This diversion has come as a happy bonus for customers, who are benefiting from the reduced prices. Potatoes and onions can be bought and stored, so people can buy in large quantities while the stocks last.” However, the supply of fruits like pomegranate and sweet lemon, which are supplied from Delhi, has been hit. Sweet lemon, available earlier at Rs 40 per kg, is now at Rs 60 per kg, mandi officials said, adding that a protracted agitation can further affect the supply chain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farmers-agitation-at-del-borders-diverts-vegetable-supply-to-doon-potato-onions-prices-fall/articleshow/79612064.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Save Waqf land in Manikonda from squatters: Assn||Hyderabad: The Association of Save Waqf Properties (ASWP) on Monday demanded Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) to take immediate action as the Waqf property attached to Dargah Hussain Shah Wali (RA) located in Manikonda Jagir village is being illegally registered by squatters. In a representation, the association requested the intervention of social welfare and minorities minister Koppula Eshwar. The association alleged that chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao had failed to safeguard the Waqf properties in the state. “The illegal and unauthorised registration of Waqf lands attached to Dargah Hussain Shah Wali, Manikonda Jagir needs immediate attention. The dargah has a vast land attached to the extent of acres 1652-32 guntas in Manikonda Jagir village,” said Syed Ifteqar Hussaini, general secretary, ASWP. The association further said that though the Waqf Board and the dargah successfully contested the title suit in the high court, the rival parties have approached the Supreme Court and now the matter is pending. “Land sharks are grabbing open lands in collusion with the government officials by using fake and fabricated documents. They are entering into transactions which are absolutely illegal and unlawful,’’ alleged ASWP. However, TSWB claimed that no fresh registrations were made on the shrine land. “We don’t have any information about illegal registrations. If the board finds any such thing, we will surely cancel all the registrations without any delay,’’ said TSWB chairman Mohd Saleem. But ASWP general secretary Hussaini told TOI that even after the issue was brought to the notice of TSWB, it did nothing to stop the registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/save-waqf-land-in-manikonda-from-squatters-assn/articleshow/79614027.cms||Omar bin Taher
December 8, 2020||Goa||Congress, GFP, AAP rally behind ryots’ clarion call||Panaji: Congress, Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday came out in support of the nationwide Bharat Bandh call given by farmers. The parties asked the people to support the farmers and join the protests. All the three parties slammed the Centre for working against the interests of farmers and said that the reforms introduced by the NDA would pave the way for retail giants to control farming activity. “We, Goa Congress, extend full support to Goa Bandh called by Goa units of All India Kisan Sabha and CITU, in support of the farmers of India agitating against the Narendra Modi government’s attempts to handover the agriculture sector to his crony capitalist club,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that the party will support the Bharat Bandh call on December 8 in support of farmers of India and anti-farmers Acts. AAP Goa convener Rahul Mhambre said that poor farmers are totally justified in calling for an all-India bandh as the government is not willing to listen to them. Despite five rounds of talks, no tangible results or decision has been taken. Mhambre said that the farmers fear that the support price they have been getting from the government will be removed in the coming years allowing business houses and conglomerates to dictate prices. “In Goa we have an example of the Sanjivani sugar factory where the Pramod Sawant government is not cognisant of the problems of the Goan farmers. The BJP both at Centre and state are anti-farmer and their focus is to please their few corporate friends,” Mhambre said. Aam Aadmi Party has appealed to Goans to come out in support of the agitating farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-gfp-aap-rally-behind-ryots-clarion-call/articleshow/79615277.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Avenue plantation prog taken up on 3-km road||Visakhapatnam: Air pollutants are the major contributors to climate change and increasing temperatures. The need of the hour is to make Vizag a pollution-free city, said YSRC Rajya Sabha MP V Vijayasai Reddy. The Rajya Sabha MP was the chief guest on Monday for the avenue plantation programme taken up by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) along its three-kilometre-long master plan road from the law college in Yendada to Mithilapuri Vuda Colony. Speaking on this occasion, Vijayasai Reddy said that environmental protection and coexistence can help preserve the environment and the planet for future generations. “The government, under the leadership of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has launched an initiative of planting 25 crore saplings for a healthier Andhra Pradesh,” said Reddy. State tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao also spoke about environmental protection measures taken up by the government. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said the avenue plantation would have 3,200 plants of eight species, including tabebuia rosea, bignonia megapotamica, etc. “We should pass on a healthy environment to future generations,” said Koteswara Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/avenue-plantation-prog-taken-up-on-3-km-road/articleshow/79612875.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Citizens want college’s fresh plea discarded||PUNE: Citizens groups and residents have approached the Pune Municipal Corporation demanding that it reject the Maharashtra Institute of Technology’s (MIT) fresh application to build a road on Vetal Tekdi. MIT had started making a road on survey number 123 on the tekdi in early November. The work was stopped by the PMC’s building permissions department on November 19 after local residents complained. The PMC and MIT have begun removing the debris dumped on the slope during the road work, but the college’s authorities maintained that they had applied for fresh permission to the PMC to build the approach road here. Sushma Date, a member of Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti, said citizens’ groups have demanded the rejection of this application. “We are grateful to the PMC for stopping work on the illegal road built by MIT on Vetal Tekdi. We trust they will not give any permissions in future for construction activity here or on other parts of the tekdi,” she added. As many as 25,000 people have signed an online petition opposing the road in just a few days, and a weekend signature campaign on the tekdi by some youngsters garnered 5,400 signatures, Date added. It is testimony to the emotional attachment Puneites have for Vetal Tekdi, she said. On December 6, some residents of Rambaug Colony wrote to the municipal commissioner about the road. A resident said, “If no constructions are allowed on hilltop/ hillslope zones, no application from MIT must be entertained by any ministry or government office. There are enough precedents on disasters due to alteration of the landscape, particularly in hilly areas and water catchment areas.” Meanwhile, MIT authorities did not respond to TOI’s calls, WhatsApp messages and SMSs on Monday seeking their comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-want-colleges-fresh-plea-discarded/articleshow/79614024.cms||Neha Madaan
December 8, 2020||Goa||Withdraw project from fragile Western Ghats, don’t destroy Goa’s identity: Opposition||PANAJI: The high court’s move to revoke the construction licence issued to the Goa government’s 400KV Goa Tamnar power transmission project proves that due process was not followed while granting clearances for the project, said the opposition parties. Congress and Goa Forward Party have now demanded that the project, which is coming in the fragile Western Ghats, should be withdrawn. “I welcome the decision of the high court to revoke the construction licence of Tamnar project,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat. “The local Sangod panchayat must now go with the people’s voice and refrain from any act which will destroy the identity of Goa.” The Tamnar project is one of the three linear projects that are planned in the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. GFP president Vijai Sardesai also welcomed the order. “The highest court in the state giving a stay means that the projects are not lawful,” said Sardesai. “These projects do not follow the spirit of the law, and it is now seen that they don’t follow the letter of the law. The government was just trying to bulldoze these projects.” Both Congress and GFP called on Goans to protect the environment. “The projects are not only immoral but illegal and should be immediately rolled back and withdrawn. Every concerned Goan, from every community and political party has to work towards saving Goa now,” said Sardesai. Based on the high court’s order and the government’s attempts to push the project, GFP said the entire project could be a scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-project-from-fragile-western-ghats-dont-destroy-goas-identity-oppn/articleshow/79615300.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Delhi fog delays flights, many flyers worry about social distance norms||PUNE: Large number of flyers were stranded at the city airport for hours on Monday after around 14 flights, mostly to and from Delhi, were delayed because of dense fog in the national capital, triggering concerns among many passengers over maintaining social distance at the facility in Covid times. “Around seven departing flights and the same number of arrivals were affected at the airport. The delays were between half-an-hour to over five hours. Some flights to sectors other than Delhi were also affected because of the Delhi fog,” an official at the airport said. The situation improved in the afternoon. Krisnendu Singh, a working professional, said, “My flight to Delhi was scheduled at 8.40am but has been delayed by over four hours now. Local airline officials said bad weather in Delhi was causing the problem. Waiting at the airport in these times is stressful. Many other flights, too, have been delayed. But I cannot blame airlines for this as weather issues are sudden.” Some passengers were not impressed, though. “If there is a delay, a notification should be sent to flyers as airlines come to know about it in advance. Airlines should be more proactive during Covid times as everyone wants to follow social distancing norms,” a passenger said. A majority of the airlines had put up travel alerts on their social media handles though, cautioning passengers. Two Delhi-bound flights of SpiceJet and IndiGo between 8am and 8.30am were delayed by half-an-hour to almost an hour. A SpiceJet flight from Kolkata to Pune, scheduled to arrive at 11.40am, took off from Kolkata only at 2pm and landed in Pune at 4.30pm. “The flight was delayed because of the consequential impact of bad weather conditions in Delhi,” a message from SpiceJet said. Six inbound flights from Delhi were also delayed between 8.30am and noon. The representative of an airline said, “Neither the airlines nor the airport officials can do much in bad weather conditions. The fog reduces visibility and pilots take a call on flying.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/delhi-fog-delays-flights-many-flyers-worry-about-social-distance-norms/articleshow/79614026.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid+ Hyderabad student in Lisbon critical, kin seek MEA help||HYDERABAD: A 28-year-old student from the Old City, who is critical with Covid-19 in Portugal, and his family here have sought the help of the authorities to provide him medical assistance. Mohamed Sohail Ahmed, a resident of Narqi Phool Bagh, Chandrayangutta, went to Lisbon to study and is also said to be working part-time. “My brother-in-law Sohail has been admitted to a hospital and is in a serious condition,” Abdallah Bin Hassan said in a letter to external affairs minister S Jaishankar. The Indian embassy informed Abdallah that Sohail’s friend Imran, whom they contacted, had told them that he was on ventilator. The embassy said it had also got in touch with the hospital and was awaiting a response. Abdallah, a resident of Jhirra, Asifnagar, also sought an emergency visa to be granted to him to visit Lisbon and be of help to his brother-in-law who is undergoing treatment in Central Lisbon University Hospital. MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan, who brought the issue to the notice of the Indian embassy in Portugal, said it had got in touch with the patient’s friend to ascertain about the health condition of Sohail. The embassy has also requested the Portuguese embassy in Delhi to favourably consider the request for granting an emergency family or entry visa in case the situation warrants as Sohail holds a residence permit valid up to August 2023. The head of consular section in embassy of Portugal in Delhi wrote back to the Indian embassy in Portugal that a hospital declaration form would be needed explaining the situation and the need of family support indicating the family members who need to be there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-city-student-in-lisbon-critical-kin-seek-mea-help/articleshow/79614025.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 8, 2020||Goa||Goa Forward pitches for regulated mining policy||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Monday supported the call for a policy for regulated mining activity based on the intergenerational equity principle and has promised to bring in such a policy if the party forms the next government. Backing the call proposed by Goemchi Mati Movement (GMM), GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that Goa’s mineral resources need to be preserved for the interests of future generations. “The present government should ensure that future generations are not deprived of the benefits of natural resources that we enjoy today,” Sardesai said. Simply put, intergenerational equity means that every generation should have access to the same amount of resources and that all resources and opportunities belong to the entire population and not to a few select individuals. GFP vice-president Dilip Prabhudesai said that GFP has studied GMM’s proposal and will incorporate the principle in the election manifesto for the 2022 state elections. “We will ensure that it is implemented in letter and in action once this anti-Goan government is voted out in 2022,” Prabhudesai said. Though GFP has demanded that the BJP government should frame a policy for mining based on the intergenerational equity principle, Prabhudesai said that the present government lacks the “intelligence, the will and intention” to understand the idea. GFP has proposed a Goemchi Mati Permanent Fund to ensure that profits currently made by the mining companies will go to a fund for future generations. The party has also vowed to bring in a mine closure plan to restore and preserve mining areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-forward-pitches-for-regulated-mining-policy/articleshow/79615301.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Pune||Police step up vigil at protest sites||Pune: City joint police commissioner Ravindra Shisve on Monday said his department has contacted all political parties to stage demonstrations on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh and made adequate arrangements at the protest sites. “We have received information about 20 such places. Personnel of the special teams and local police stations have been ordered to be on their toes. The police will not allow anyone to block public roads,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-step-up-vigil-at-protest-sites/articleshow/79614034.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Take action against wedding organisers, not us, says marriage garden body||JAIPUR: Marriage Garden Association has given a memorandum to Shanti Dhariwal, minister of local self-government on Monday against the sealing of marriage gardens by the authorities. On Sunday, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Greater sealed a marriage garden in Civil Lines for allowing 200 guests which is against the Covid-19 guidelines. The association said that sealing a marriage garden due to organisers’ fault is not right, particularly when the wedding industry is crumbling. Bhawani Shankar Mali, president of Marriage Garden Association said that they can inform the authorities if anyone is violating the norms. “Our job should be to inform the authorities if anyone is violating the norms but not allowing more than 100 people in the venue can lead to an argument with the clients. It is better to impose fine against the organisers of the wedding,” said Mali. He also said that when a marriage garden is sealed, the clients who are next in line and have booked it have a tough time. “We are facing problems and after December 14 there is no auspicious date for weddings for the next four months. Hence, we have requested the government to think about our plight,” said Mali. JMC, Greater’s enforcement wing head Rakesh Gupta said they are working according to pandemic guidelines by the government and if any other order is released then they will comply with that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/take-action-against-organisers-not-us-says-marriage-garden-body/articleshow/79614033.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Three-year-old girl raped by cousin in UP’s Budaun||BAREILLY: A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her first cousin in a village under Wazirganj area of Budaun district in UP on Monday evening. The girl had gone missing early in the day and was found abandoned at a desolate place in the night, said police. As the family found out that the girl was sexually assaulted by her cousin, they informed police. Soon, district magistrate Kumar Prashant and senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma rushed to the village and met the girl’s family. Police said the girl was shifted to a hospital, but her medico-legal examination would be done on Tuesday. Police have, meanwhile, booked the accused under IPC section 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act. The accused was arrested from a field where he was hiding in an inebriated condition, said police. The DM said, “The victim’s family will be provided all those assistance which are given to the families of rape survivors. We will monitor the case and ensure speedy trial by a special Pocso court.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-year-old-girl-raped-by-cousin-in-ups-budaun/articleshow/79612877.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shutdown at Gultekdi likely for farmers’ stir||PUNE: Various farmer and social organizations will stage protest at the Gultekdi Market Yard in the city on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh called by colleagues agitating at the border points of New Delhi against the Centre’s farm bills. The Poona Merchants’ Chamber, which represents the grain merchants and traders, announced closure of its member units on Tuesday. Dilip Mohite, the NCP MLA from Khed who heads the Maharashtra State Cooperative Marketing Committee Federation, said, “We will support the protest across Maharashtra.” Madhukant Garad, administrator and secretary Agricultural Produce Market Committee-Pune, said, “We have not announced closure of the Gultekdi Market Yard officially. Our staffers will work as usual. But farmers may face difficulties if they come with their produce because the commission agents’ association and workers’ unions have decided to participate in the bandh.” Kaluram Thorat, a farmer from Nandur village in Daund tehsil, said, “I have fenugreek and coriander ready to harvest. I won’t be able to sell it anywhere, including Gultekdi.” Vilas Bhujbal, president of the commission agents’ association of the Gultekdi Market Yard, said, “No auction or any other activity will take place in the market. The farm bills are not only against us but many small-time workers too.” Raju Shetti, former MP and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana founder, said, “All units of the party will stage peaceful demonstrations on Tuesday. We have advised the agitators not to stage demonstration on highways. We have urged milk farmers, medical and hospital groups not to stop work.” Pune Congress president Ramesh Bagwe in a statement said workers of the Maha Vikas Agahdi would take out a march at the Alka Talkies Chowk at 11am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shutdown-at-gultekdi-likely-for-farmers-stir/articleshow/79614031.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||SCR GM holds review meet on safety||Hyderabad: A detailed review meeting on safety, freight loading and punctuality of the South Central Railway (SCR) zone was held on Monday with divisional railway managers (DRMs) of all six divisions viz. Vijayawada, Guntakal, Guntur, Secunderabad, Hyderabad and Nanded divisions. General manager, South Central Railway, Gajanan Mallya reviewed the safety measures to be observed at station yards, sidings, to avert all incidents related to train operations and safety and advised officials to strictly adhere to the guidelines to ensure safety of the tracks. Gajanan Mallya also reviewed the freight loading of the zone, which has shown significant improvement as compared to December 2019. Mallya also reviewed the action plan of the divisions on loading and transportation of various commodities, food grains, fertilizers, agro products, granite and other commodities onto trains. He oversaw the the performance of the Business Development Units (BDUs) and stressed on the importance on customer outreach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-gm-holds-review-meet-on-safety/articleshow/79614032.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan anganwadi centres added 8 lakh beneficiaries during pandemic||JAIPUR: Over seven lakh students have moved to anganwadi centres during the pandemic, mostly from families which migrated from other states and locals whose livelihoods have been severely hit due to the lockdown. The official figure says that the number of beneficiaries under the anganwadis was 35 lakhs till March, which swelled to 43 lakhs by the end of November. The figure includes one lakh pregnant women and lactating mothers. The movement is due to the free distribution of raw food grains being provided door-to-door by the state to its beneficiaries. Commenting on the surge, Naziya Khan, a social worker, said that families who have suffered financial losses due to pandemic were left with no choice to register their children in order to get free food grains. “Most of these children were studying in some low-income schools and due to pandemic, they had quit schools to register in anganwadis. In some centres, the strength of children rose manifold,” said Khan. Reports said at some places the registration was so high that anganwadi workers had to keep them on standby till they received extra food grains. The anganwadi centres in Rajkiya Balika Senior Secondary Schools are following rotation system by giving ration to 20 children every alternate month. The state has 61,500 anganwadis spread across the districts with 1.5 lakh staff, including 62,000 anganwadi staff and rest Asha Sahayoginis. The surge in numbers started soon after the arrival of migrants from across the country. Under the revised scheme, instead of cooked food, the state is providing food packets — 2kg pulses and 2.5kg wheat per child for a month. Krishna Kant Pathak, secretary, women and child development, said that the department is ready to cater to the end number of children in the age group of 3-6 in anganwadis. “Majority of the entrants had left their low-income level school and joined anganwadis. Our workers are taking care of the food and other health indicators,” said Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anganwadi-centres-added-8-lakh-beneficiaries-during-pandemic/articleshow/79614035.cms||Shoeb Khan
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Four gang rape accused sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment||HYDERABAD: Four brick kiln workers were convicted by a local court in a gangrape case on Monday and were sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment (RI). K Maruthi Devi , special sessions judge cum XVII additional district sessions judge, Rangareddy district, conducted a speedy trial of the four accused and convicted them on Monday. The gangrape case was registered at Maheshwaram police station in 2019. The accused—Rahul Maji, 25, Manoj, Samrat, 23 and Durga Samrat, 20, all natives of Malapam Munda village in Bolangir district of Odisha; and Dhaya Nidhi Maji, 20, from Thethelkutti village in Bolangir district—were sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and were also ordered to pay a fine of Rs 2,000 each. The four accused and the victim had been working as labourers at a brick kiln in Maheswaram. On August, 16, 2019, around 7.30 pm, when the victim went to answer nature’s call, the accused followed her and raped her at an isolated place near the brick kiln. After committing the offense, they fled from the scene as a few co-workers had seen them. Police arrested the four accused on August 22, 2019 and subsequently they were detained under the PD (Preventive Detention) Act at Cherlapally prison. During the trial, the court examined 27 witnesses. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-gang-rape-accused-sentenced-to-20-years-ri/articleshow/79614045.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Helmetless biker dies in accident||Pune: A 44-year-old motorcyclist died of severe head injuries after the two-wheeler skidded off the road in Vishrantwadi on Sunday afternoon. The deceased, Vijay Kerba Kavathekar, a resident of Vishrantwadi police colony, worked for a private company. His wife is a police constable. He was speeding on the service lane of the Pune-Alandi road when the accident occurred, police said. “Had Kavathekar worn a helmet, he would have survived. His motorcycle skidded in front of Yerawada garbage centre,” sub-inspector Suresh Anecha of the Vishrantwadi police said A case of rash and negligent driving has been registered. “We are yet to register the statements of his family,” Anecha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/helmetless-biker-dies-in-accident/articleshow/79614038.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Birthday cake cut with chopper knife on road, one in the net||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Sunday booked a man on the charge of cutting his birthday cake with a chopper knife and arrested his friend on the charge of holding the birthday celebration on a public road on Saturday in Dapodi . Samir Bagsiraj (20), a resident of Dapodi, was arrested under the relevant section of the Maharshtra Police Act. “Bagsiraj was sent to the Yerawada prison on Monday,” assistant sub-inspector Kiran Kare of the Bhosari police said. Kare stated that Bagsiraj and others celebrated their friend, Sohail Shaikh’s, birthday on the road in Dapodi. “The birthday boy cut the cake with the chopper knife, which led to an atmosphere of panic in Dapodi. Bagsiraj posted the video clips of the celebration on the social media platforms,” Kare said. The office said the detection branch of the Bhosari police station got the information about the celebrations through social media. “We arrested Bagsiraj on Sunday. Shaikh is yet to be arrested,” Kare added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bday-cake-cut-with-chopper-knife-on-road-one-in-the-net/articleshow/79614040.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Bharatpur: 4 arrested for helping candidates cheat in exam||ALWAR: Bharatpur police busted a gang that was attempting to help the candidates of the Rajasthan Subordinate and Ministerial Selection Board, cheat in the examination held on Sunday. Four persons were arrested in the matter. According to Bharatpur officials, state Special Operations Group (SOG) intimated them about a gang that was charging each candidate approximately Rs 14 lakh in return for helping them cheat in the written exam and for selection in the board. Using cyber intelligence, the cops nabbed four of the gang members and found chats about paper leaks, cost of helping them get selected etc on WhatsApp. Cops also found details about the money given by candidates. Police seized two cars as well from the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-arrested-for-helping-candidates-cheat-in-exam/articleshow/79614039.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Final trial of Arjun Mark 1-A held in Pokhran||JAISALMER: The final phase of trials of the battle tank Arjun Mark 1 ALFA, the advanced version of the tank, was held on Monday at Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer district. The tank will boost army’s fire power. It has been manufactured indigenously by DRDO and combined vehicles research and development establishment, Chennai. In this new advanced version, the firing system has been upgraded with automatic fire control system guided missiles. It also has many other features which will strengthen the firing capacity of the army. Indian army deputy chief staff Lt Gen SS Hasabnis and director general armed Lt Gen MJS Kahlo and other senior officers were present during the trial. It is to be mentioned that PM Narendra Modi’s riding the Arjun tank at Longewala border has increased the possibility of inducting this tank in the army. According to the information from army official sources, two units of Arjun tank are present in the army, but as per the requirements of the Indian army, DRDO has upgraded 14 features in it. Induction trial has been done and soon it will be inducted in the army. It is planned to induct two more regiments with Mark 2 version which will have the feature of firing anti-tank missiles. A source said, “The Mark 1-A includes an improved gunner’s main sight, integrated with automatic target tracking. This would enable the tank crew to track moving targets automatically, and engage them even when Arjun tank is on the move.” Official sources said, “The Arjun Mark 1-A’s gun is controlled by a computerised integrated fire control system, giving the tank has a high first round kill capability. The gun’s day-and-night stabilised sights, coupled with automatic target tracker, guarantee accurate engagement even in dynamic conditions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/final-trial-of-arjun-mark-1-a-held-in-pokhran/articleshow/79614042.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Two held for vehicle thefts||Pune: The Chinchwad police on Sunday arrested two youths and recovered seven stolen two-wheelers and an autorickshaw from them. Probe revealed that Imran Shaikh (19) and Amar Waghmare (19), both from Chinchwad, used stolen vehicles for joy rides and burglaries. Police also have detected one burglary in which the duo had stolen bronze and aluminium utensils from a parked vehicle at Chinchwadenagar. Two constables nabbed the duo after chasing their autorickshaw. Police have recovered booty worth Rs3 lakh from the duo.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-for-vehicle-thefts/articleshow/79614073.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Man held for killing cousin||Coimbatore: The Kinathukadavu police on Sunday arrested a 36-year-old resident of S Mettupalayam village here for killing his 29-year-old cousin.Police identified the victim as B Nandhakumar of S Mettupalayam village. “He was an unemployed computer diploma holder. He often admonished his cousin A Krishnakumar, a gay man working as a cab driver, saying that he would bring shame on the whole family. A verbal quarrel arose between the duo over the issue on Saturday night and in a fit of rage, Krishnakumar attacked Nandhakumar using a sickle. Relatives rushed a bleeding Nandhakumar to a private clinic, where first aid was given. He was later taken to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, where he died on Sunday evening,” a police officer said.Nandhakumar’s father N Balasubramanian had initially told police that his son had fell from his motorcycle. Based on the statement, police registered a case under sections 279 and 337 of the Indian Penal Code. The case was later altered.Krishnakumar was remanded in judicial custody on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-killing-cousin/articleshow/79614071.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Sangli man booked on charge of bid to kill youth||PUNE: The Wakad police booked a man from Miraj in Sangli on the charges of trying to kill a youth and assaulting his sister before abducting her daughter on Sunday at Thergaon. The police said the man was driving a pickup van and tried to run over the girl’s uncle. “The youth suffered fractures in his ribs and right shoulder,” senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police said. Mugalikar said the police have booked the man under relevant sections of IPC. “We have sent a team to Sangli to trace the man and the girl,” Mugalikar said. The woman was from Andheri and was staying at her brother’s Thergaon residence for the past few days. “Her daughter got to know the man from Miraj through social media and wanted to get married to him. The complainant was against it.”  “Around 12.30am, the girl went out of her uncle’s house. When she did not return, the woman went out and saw the man with her daughter,” he said. “As the youth came out, the man attacked him and his sister with a stick. The woman said her brother fainted. The man then forced the girl into the van and sped away after trying to run over the youth,” Mugalikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sangli-man-booked-on-charge-of-bid-to-kill-youth/articleshow/79614077.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||TNAU back on top 10 in ICAR ranking||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has bounced back to the top 10 in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) ranking for the year 2019. Last year, the university, which dipped to 33rd rank, had come under criticism for not producing enough research that made a difference. This year, it secured the eighth rank.Some of the measures taken to improve rankings was inviting more external agency-funded schemes, quantitative increase in paper publications and increasing its recognition in the international scene.The recently-released rankings place TNAU eight among the 67 agricultural institutes, fourth among state agricultural universities and the first among the southern agricultural universities. Until 2016, TNAU was featured in the top seven ranks. Since then, it dropped to 27th rank in 2017 and 33rd in 2018. The top ranks were occupied by ICAR National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal and Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana and ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) Delhi. “A drop in the ranking affects the quantity of grants released and general perception of the university,” said vice-chancellor N Kumar.The university, since last year, introduced extensive monitoring to improve its outlook and perception. “Our teachers, through rigorous coaching, guided students to acquire more junior and senior research fellowships, which is a key factor to raise our scores in the educational dimension. Our scientists took it as a challenge and put more effort to increase research publications and mobilized funds for the same through external agency-funded projects,” the VC said.Scientists were also motivated to file for more patents and evolve more varieties, and participate in more extension programmes like radio talk and TV programmes.Kumar aims to rope in more international students to promote student diversity. “We hope this will also help us attract more funds and create more avenues for collaborative research and farmers’ empowerment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tnau-back-on-top-10-in-icar-ranking/articleshow/79614055.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||50 sovereigns of ornaments burgled||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with 50 sovereigns of gold and diamond ornaments and Rs 2 lakh from a locked house on Pushpam Garden at Nehru Nagar on Kalapatti Road on Saturday.House owner Sathishkumar, who runs a software firm, had left the house with his wife on Saturday morning, police said. They returned late evening to find the front door broke open and the valuables missing.The Peelamedu police registered a case and formed a special team to nab the burglars. “We collected CCTV footage from nearby areas,” an officer said.Peelamedu police cover a vast area, but lack the manpower to investigate crime cases, sources said. They are yet to crack a triple murder case reported in 2003. After assuming charge as deputy commissioner of police, E S Uma had convened a meeting with Peelamedu police inspector Shobana to follow up the case.“Most of the officers in the crime unit are not interested in working and prefer law & order cases. The department should appoint efficient officers who have a knack for solving criminal cases,” a senior police officer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/50-sovereigns-of-ornaments-burgled/articleshow/79614076.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Cop caught for taking bribe in Baran||KOTA: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Bundi on Monday arrested an assistant sub inspector (ASI) posted at Kunjed police check post under Atru police station, Baran for accepting bribe of Rs 15,000. The accused ASI had demanded a monthly bribe of Rs 45,000 for allowing illegal transportation of bajri. The ACB also seized unaccounted sum of Rs 76,500 from his government quarters during search. Tarunkant Somani, DSP, ACB, told TOI that a complainant, identified as Deepak Yadav, lodged a report with ACB on Thursday last week. He alleged that ASI Herachand Dhobi (47) had demanded a monthly bribe of Rs 45,000 monthly to allow him to illegally transport bajri from the river. The ACB carried out the verification of the complaint on the same day when monthly bribe amount was settled at Rs 30,000. The ASI called the complainant on Monday with the first instalment of bribe amount Rs 15,000 to a market in Atru, where the ACB sleuths caught him. Further investigation is underway. The accused ASI will be produced before ACB court on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-caught-for-taking-bribe-in-baran/articleshow/79614078.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Joshpur: Man calls cops after killing wife||JODHPUR: A man killed his wife with scissors here on Sunday night and informed police and in-laws about the murder. When police rushed to the spot, he was found playing video game on his mobile phone at the gate of his house. On checking, police found the woman lying in a pool of blood in a room and rushed her to the hospital, where she was declared dead. Police attributed a heated argument between the two over joblessness of husband as the cause of the incident. Mahamandir SHO Kailashdan said that Vikram Singh, 35, and his wife Shiv Kanwar, 30, lived in BJS Colony of the city with their two children. “Vikram was unemployed while his wife used to do tailoring work at home. She also used to insist him on doing some job and the couple used to often have arguments over this,” said the officer. On the day of the incident, too, they had an argument over the issue. Out of rage, Vikram picked up the scissors and stabbed her repeatedly. According to spot verification, the victim tried to protect herself at her best, but gave in. When she fell on the ground lifeless, he came out and informed police about the incident. “When we rushed to the spot, we found Vikram playing video game on his mobile phone without any sign of regret on his face,” said the SHO. The couple was alone at the time of incident and their two children were not living with them. According to the victim’s brother Mangu Singh, Vikram was not happy with his wife working as tailor either and was himself not willing to do something for livelihood. Interestingly, none in the neighbourhood had any clue about the incident as the woman might have wailed aloud to save herself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/man-calls-cops-after-killing-wife/articleshow/79614063.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops arrest six more in Rs 20 crore drug seizure case||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police made six more arrests in the past two weeks, including three on December 5 in Vadodara, in connection with the Rs 20 crore mephedrone drug bust in October. On November 24 and 25, the police arrested two men from Thane and one from Mulund. Their interrogation led to the December 5 arrest of three others from Vadodara. One of the arrested men, Arvind Kumar Prakash Chand Lohare (39) of Oshiwara in Mumbai, holds a master’s degree in organic chemistry and, with help from others, trained people in the manufacturing process, police said. This takes the total arrests in the case so far to 20. Further, the police have also sealed three facilities — one in Ranjangaon MIDC in Pune and two in Mahad in Raigad district — used to illegally manufacture the drug. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash claimed they have now dismantled the entire set-up linked to this case and said they were now focusing on the drug’s supply chain in Maharashtra and Gujarat, where 130kg of MD is believed to have been distributed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-arrest-six-more-in-rs-20cr-drug-seizure-case/articleshow/79614057.cms||Mihir Tanksale
December 8, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Trade unions, farm outfits, social orgs, non-BJP parties back bandh||KOLHAPUR/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: Thousands of farmers, protesting against the three hastily passed agriculture reform bills and demanding a repeal of the laws, have been staging agitations outside New Delhi since November 26. Their protest and the call for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday has now gained support from the trade unions, social organisations and non-BJP parties in Maharashtra as well. In Kolhapur, however, two farmers’ outfits have taken opposing stands. While Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana is going to support the bandh, Sadabhau Khot-led Rayat Kranti Sanghatana will be protesting in favour of the farm laws instead. In Aurangabad, the Shetkari Mahasangh will refrain from the protest as it believes the farm laws should be amended, not repealed. The Vyapari Mahasangh in Aurangabad said that though it supports the farmers’ cause, the local traders cannot afford to keep their establishments closed given the financial losses suffered during the pandemic-related lockdown. In Nashik, organisations, farmers’ bodies and political parties organised roadshows on Monday requesting people to participate in Tuesday's bandh. D L Karad, the state unit president of the Centre of India Trade Unions (CITU) and a CPI office bearer, said people and the political parties had now understood the threat of giving absolute power in the hands of a single party. “We appeal to the citizens to support the farmers. We have to be united now or else the government will start destroying one sector after another,” Karad said. The NCP and Sena also have extended support. Congress city unit president Sharad Aher said the Union government was playing into the hands of the capitalists and wanted to hand over the agriculture sector. Raju Desle, another CPI office bearer, said a rally would start from the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar statue near CBS and would go around Nashik city asking people to keep their businesses closed till 3 pm only. Agitations have also been planned in rural areas. The agitators have warned of chakka jams along the highway at Chandwad, Manmad and Dindori and sit-ins at various places — but it will all be peaceful and democratic, Desle assured. Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey said all police station personnel have been instructed to maintain a strict vigil and deploy sufficient bandobast in sensitive areas. Rural police SP Sachin Patil added bandobast has been planned in the markets and highways. He appealed to the agitators to not force people to shut their establishments. In Aurangabad, different labour and bank unions have extended support. “Our members will be wearing badges and holding a protest,” said Maharashtra State Bank Employees’ Federation general secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar. “We support the demand to immediately repeal these laws,” added senior socialist Subhash Lomte. Jadhavwadi Adat Vyapari Sanghatna’s secretary Dilip Gandhi said they too have decided to participate in the bandh. These unions would be gathering at all the mandis and markets at 10 am to stage protests. Office bearers of industrial associations maintained that it will be an individual company or factory’s decision on whether to participate in the bandh or not. Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh president Jagannath Kale announced that though they support the farmers’ cause, but due to the serious financial losses suffered by the traders during the lockdown, shops would remain open on Tuesday. However, Shetkari Mahasangh’s president Anil Ghanwat issued a statement saying that his organisation will not participate in the bandh. “New laws need to be amended, not repealed. The Essential Commodities Act has excluded agricultural commodities, but in case of a price hike, there is a provision to re-enforce the Act. Agricultural commodities should be permanently excluded from the law.” In Kolhapur, Raju Shetti, the president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, has declared support for the bandh and said his party will ensure that people in Kolhapur and Sangli observe the bandh. “Those criticising me, claiming that I am in favour of the opening of the agricultural sector to private entities, must recall what I had said in context. The farmers must have the right to fix the price of their produce and whom to sell. However, there must be a guarantee on minimum price the produce is bought by private players,” said Shetti. Shetti’s former colleague and Rayat Kranti Sanghatana leader Sadabhau Khot said he will protest in support of the farm laws. “Leaders like Shetti were for the opening of the sector. He wanted no bar on the sale of sugar cane to factories in a particular zone and always wanted the choice for farmers to sell produce to the mills offering the highest price. Now, he has changed his stand to gain political mileage,” said Khot. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Produce Market Committees in the region are expected to remain shut. The traders here claimed that the farm laws will destroy the APMCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/trade-unions-farm-outfits-social-orgs-non-bjp-parties-back-bandh/articleshow/79618277.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Trade unions, farm outfits, social orgs, non-BJP parties back bandh||KOLHAPUR/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: Thousands of farmers, protesting against the three hastily passed agriculture reform bills and demanding a repeal of the laws, have been staging agitations outside New Delhi since November 26. Their protest and the call for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday has now gained support from the trade unions, social organisations and non-BJP parties in Maharashtra as well. In Kolhapur, however, two farmers’ outfits have taken opposing stands. While Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana is going to support the bandh, Sadabhau Khot-led Rayat Kranti Sanghatana will be protesting in favour of the farm laws instead. In Aurangabad, the Shetkari Mahasangh will refrain from the protest as it believes the farm laws should be amended, not repealed. The Vyapari Mahasangh in Aurangabad said that though it supports the farmers’ cause, the local traders cannot afford to keep their establishments closed given the financial losses suffered during the pandemic-related lockdown. In Nashik, organisations, farmers’ bodies and political parties organised roadshows on Monday requesting people to participate in Tuesday's bandh. D L Karad, the state unit president of the Centre of India Trade Unions (CITU) and a CPI office bearer, said people and the political parties had now understood the threat of giving absolute power in the hands of a single party. “We appeal to the citizens to support the farmers. We have to be united now or else the government will start destroying one sector after another,” Karad said. The NCP and Sena also have extended support. Congress city unit president Sharad Aher said the Union government was playing into the hands of the capitalists and wanted to hand over the agriculture sector. Raju Desle, another CPI office bearer, said a rally would start from the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar statue near CBS and would go around Nashik city asking people to keep their businesses closed till 3 pm only. Agitations have also been planned in rural areas. The agitators have warned of chakka jams along the highway at Chandwad, Manmad and Dindori and sit-ins at various places — but it will all be peaceful and democratic, Desle assured. Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey said all police station personnel have been instructed to maintain a strict vigil and deploy sufficient bandobast in sensitive areas. Rural police SP Sachin Patil added bandobast has been planned in the markets and highways. He appealed to the agitators to not force people to shut their establishments. In Aurangabad, different labour and bank unions have extended support. “Our members will be wearing badges and holding a protest,” said Maharashtra State Bank Employees’ Federation general secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar. “We support the demand to immediately repeal these laws,” added senior socialist Subhash Lomte. Jadhavwadi Adat Vyapari Sanghatna’s secretary Dilip Gandhi said they too have decided to participate in the bandh. These unions would be gathering at all the mandis and markets at 10 am to stage protests. Office bearers of industrial associations maintained that it will be an individual company or factory’s decision on whether to participate in the bandh or not. Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh president Jagannath Kale announced that though they support the farmers’ cause, but due to the serious financial losses suffered by the traders during the lockdown, shops would remain open on Tuesday. However, Shetkari Mahasangh’s president Anil Ghanwat issued a statement saying that his organisation will not participate in the bandh. “New laws need to be amended, not repealed. The Essential Commodities Act has excluded agricultural commodities, but in case of a price hike, there is a provision to re-enforce the Act. Agricultural commodities should be permanently excluded from the law.” In Kolhapur, Raju Shetti, the president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, has declared support for the bandh and said his party will ensure that people in Kolhapur and Sangli observe the bandh. “Those criticising me, claiming that I am in favour of the opening of the agricultural sector to private entities, must recall what I had said in context. The farmers must have the right to fix the price of their produce and whom to sell. However, there must be a guarantee on minimum price the produce is bought by private players,” said Shetti. Shetti’s former colleague and Rayat Kranti Sanghatana leader Sadabhau Khot said he will protest in support of the farm laws. “Leaders like Shetti were for the opening of the sector. He wanted no bar on the sale of sugar cane to factories in a particular zone and always wanted the choice for farmers to sell produce to the mills offering the highest price. Now, he has changed his stand to gain political mileage,” said Khot. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Produce Market Committees in the region are expected to remain shut. The traders here claimed that the farm laws will destroy the APMCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/trade-unions-farm-outfits-social-orgs-non-bjp-parties-back-bandh/articleshow/79618276.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Trade unions, farm outfits, social orgs, non-BJP parties back bandh||KOLHAPUR/AURANGABAD/NASHIK: Thousands of farmers, protesting against the three hastily passed agriculture reform bills and demanding a repeal of the laws, have been staging agitations outside New Delhi since November 26. Their protest and the call for a Bharat Bandh on Tuesday has now gained support from the trade unions, social organisations and non-BJP parties in Maharashtra as well. In Kolhapur, however, two farmers’ outfits have taken opposing stands. While Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana is going to support the bandh, Sadabhau Khot-led Rayat Kranti Sanghatana will be protesting in favour of the farm laws instead. In Aurangabad, the Shetkari Mahasangh will refrain from the protest as it believes the farm laws should be amended, not repealed. The Vyapari Mahasangh in Aurangabad said that though it supports the farmers’ cause, the local traders cannot afford to keep their establishments closed given the financial losses suffered during the pandemic-related lockdown. In Nashik, organisations, farmers’ bodies and political parties organised roadshows on Monday requesting people to participate in Tuesday's bandh. D L Karad, the state unit president of the Centre of India Trade Unions (CITU) and a CPI office bearer, said people and the political parties had now understood the threat of giving absolute power in the hands of a single party. “We appeal to the citizens to support the farmers. We have to be united now or else the government will start destroying one sector after another,” Karad said. The NCP and Sena also have extended support. Congress city unit president Sharad Aher said the Union government was playing into the hands of the capitalists and wanted to hand over the agriculture sector. Raju Desle, another CPI office bearer, said a rally would start from the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar statue near CBS and would go around Nashik city asking people to keep their businesses closed till 3 pm only. Agitations have also been planned in rural areas. The agitators have warned of chakka jams along the highway at Chandwad, Manmad and Dindori and sit-ins at various places — but it will all be peaceful and democratic, Desle assured. Nashik police commissioner Deepak Pandey said all police station personnel have been instructed to maintain a strict vigil and deploy sufficient bandobast in sensitive areas. Rural police SP Sachin Patil added bandobast has been planned in the markets and highways. He appealed to the agitators to not force people to shut their establishments. In Aurangabad, different labour and bank unions have extended support. “Our members will be wearing badges and holding a protest,” said Maharashtra State Bank Employees’ Federation general secretary Devidas Tuljapurkar. “We support the demand to immediately repeal these laws,” added senior socialist Subhash Lomte. Jadhavwadi Adat Vyapari Sanghatna’s secretary Dilip Gandhi said they too have decided to participate in the bandh. These unions would be gathering at all the mandis and markets at 10 am to stage protests. Office bearers of industrial associations maintained that it will be an individual company or factory’s decision on whether to participate in the bandh or not. Aurangabad Vyapari Mahasangh president Jagannath Kale announced that though they support the farmers’ cause, but due to the serious financial losses suffered by the traders during the lockdown, shops would remain open on Tuesday. However, Shetkari Mahasangh’s president Anil Ghanwat issued a statement saying that his organisation will not participate in the bandh. “New laws need to be amended, not repealed. The Essential Commodities Act has excluded agricultural commodities, but in case of a price hike, there is a provision to re-enforce the Act. Agricultural commodities should be permanently excluded from the law.” In Kolhapur, Raju Shetti, the president of Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, has declared support for the bandh and said his party will ensure that people in Kolhapur and Sangli observe the bandh. “Those criticising me, claiming that I am in favour of the opening of the agricultural sector to private entities, must recall what I had said in context. The farmers must have the right to fix the price of their produce and whom to sell. However, there must be a guarantee on minimum price the produce is bought by private players,” said Shetti. Shetti’s former colleague and Rayat Kranti Sanghatana leader Sadabhau Khot said he will protest in support of the farm laws. “Leaders like Shetti were for the opening of the sector. He wanted no bar on the sale of sugar cane to factories in a particular zone and always wanted the choice for farmers to sell produce to the mills offering the highest price. Now, he has changed his stand to gain political mileage,” said Khot. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Produce Market Committees in the region are expected to remain shut. The traders here claimed that the farm laws will destroy the APMCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trade-unions-farm-outfits-social-orgs-non-bjp-parties-back-bandh/articleshow/79612105.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||35 Covid deaths on Mon after 42 days in Vid; new cases down||Nagpur: Vidarbha region received a shocker with 35 Covid deaths on Monday. More than 35 deaths reported last time was on October 26. Entire November and seven days of December had not reported so many Covid deaths. On the other hand, Covid-19 cases continued to reduce significantly as only 745 new cases were reported on Monday.According to senior health officials, the number of deaths increased because many patients, especially those from periphery, are reporting at a critical stage. This was evident as all districts with prominent rural population reported deaths. These include Bhandara 4, Gondia 4, Chandrapur 4, Wardha 3, and Gadchiroli 3. Out of the 13 deaths reported in Nagpur, 5 were of outstation patients who reported in a very critical condition and died on Monday. Rural spread of Covid-19, late reporting, and death of outstation patients together are adding to the toll in Vidarbha.Other parameters of the spread of infection continued to show improving trend. With 1151 patients recovering in a day against 745 new cases; the recovery rate reached 92.5%. Now, 2,16,286 patients from Vidarbha have recovered out of the total 2,33,813 cases. Six districts out of the 11 in region have less than 500 patients under treatment now. Total number of under-treatment patients reduced to 1,13,29 on Monday, which is under 5% of total cases reported till date. This shows that hospitalization rate has reduced and more beds are available. But, the same is also an indicator that people are not reaching hospitals at the right time. Chandrapur: The Covid total mounted to 20, 854 with the detection of 66 new cases on Monday. The day also saw four deaths, taking the toll to 323. In all. 198 patients were discharged from hospital and isolation. The total recoveries now stands at 18, 860, while 1671 active patients are under treatment in the districtWardha: Three patients, a one-year-old girl and a 70-year-old man from Wardha and a 54-year-old man from Deoli died due to coronavirus on Monday, taking the toll to 258. While 11 new cases were reported, 77 were discharged on Monday.The caseload of the district reached 8,151 and recoveries are now 7513. Active positive patients under treatment are 380. Out of the 78 reports, six women and five men tested positive. Cases were reported from Wardha (6), Deoli (3), Arvi and Hinganghat (1 each).Amravati: While the death of an 82-year-old man of Pardi village took the district’s Covid toll to 383, 47 new cases took the caseload to 18,264 on Monday. Sixty-five patients staged recovery today to take the total to 17,390 for a rate of 95.21%. This left 491 patients, including 257 in home isolation, under treatment.Yavatmal: Out of the 304 reports, 29 tested positive. Currently, 313 are active positive patients who are undergoing treatment in the Covid Care Centres in the district. 11,749 was the caseload of the district so far of which 11,060 recovered. Also, 56 recovered and were discharged on Monday. Meanwhile, the district collector held a review meeting of the heads of various departments and organizations like Rotary, Lions club, Junior Chambers and IMA on Monday and instructed the officers to get themselves prepared for the vaccine which may reach the district in the near future. He has also instructed officers to get the cold storage facilities updated so that the vaccine can be kept safely whenever it is made available to the tehsil headquarters.Bhandara: The district reported 17 new cases of Covid-19, lowest in last 15 days, on Monday. This took the total caseload of Bhandara to 11,167. On the other hand, 115 patients recovered in the day, which took the total number of recovered patients to 10,238. Apart from one death on Sunday, Bhandara reported 3 deaths of Covid-19 patients on Monday taking the toll of the district to 264. Now, 665 patients are under treatment in the district.Gondia: The district reported 43 new Covid cases and 4 Coronavirus-related deaths in the last 24 hours. Gondia’s Covid-19 toll reached 168 on Monday. The count of recoveries crossed 12,000-mark with 134 getting discharge in the day. It is noteworthy that only 200 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours in Gondia and 43 of them tested positive. Now, the district has 12,845 total cases, 12,088 of them recovered and 589 under treatment.Gadchiroli: Death of three women took Gadchiroli’s Covid-19 toll to 88 on Monday. The patients were 90, 70 and 60 years old. The district also reported 58 new cases in the day, while 51 patients recovered. With this, the total cases in the district reached 8,286, including 7,782 recoveries and 416 under treatment.Washim: The district reported only 10 new Covid cases on Monday, lowest for any district in the region. While 30 patients recovered from Washim, no Covid death was reported here on Monday. Now, the district has 6,277 total cases, 5,940 recoveries and 148 deaths. The number of under-treatment patients in Washim stood at 189 on Monday, once again under 200 and lowest in the region.Buldhana: The district has seen 42 new Covid cases on Monday, 50 recoveries and a death. Buldhana’s total case count reached 11,612, including 11,169 recoveries, and 139 deaths. Total 304 patients are under treatment in the district.Akola: With death of a 56-year-old and 65-year-old Covid-19 positive men, the district’s Covid toll reached 300. The district reported 17 new cases, and 12 recoveries in the day. Total case count of Akola reached 9,677, including 8,729 recoveries and 300 deaths. Now, the district has 648 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/35-covid-deaths-on-mon-after-42-days-in-vid-new-cases-down/articleshow/79614085.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 8, 2020||Goa||Katyo, a unique festival that reflects traditional astronomical knowledge inherited over generations||Keri: In some pockets of Goa, women celebrate ‘Katyo’, an eco-feministic festival, wherein they depict the stars, the sun and the moon, in rangoli patterns which they draw using rice flour. The women sing folk songs and the entire festival reflects traditional astronomical knowledge. Observed in the eighth Hindu month of Karthik, the festival marks a period when the skies are clear, making it the best period to observe stars with the naked eye. Today, ‘Katyo’ is celebrated in a few areas of Goa and the hilly regions of Karnataka. Presently, the festival is confined only to three hamlets dominated by the tribal Gawda community. In Karnataka, however, in the villages bordering Goa, ‘Katyo’ is celebrated by women belonging to the Maratha agricultural community. In Dharbandora, the festival is celebrated for four days. It is observed in Udalshe for five days and in Pazwada, Shiroda, Ponda for only one day. “Through rangolis we showcase the stars, the moon and the sun and express our gratitude towards them through folk songs,” said Vimal Chandrakant Paingitkar of Pazwada, Shiroda. The last day of ‘Katyo’ falls on the full moon day of Kartik. Etymologically, Kartik originates from Krutika, which refers to a cluster of stars that is clearly visible throughout this month from evening till dawn. On the full moon day, the ‘Katyo’ concludes and women get together to recite folk songs and perform folk dances, expressing their respect towards the stars through the rangoli that is drawn at a sacred place. “Women before performing the folk dances pay their respects to the elements of the solar system. The festival of Katyo reflects the astronomical knowledge inherited over generations,” said Gautam Jalmi of Fans of Astronomy from Honda-Sattari. In Aamte, Chikhali, Karnataka, newly-married couples take part in the festival and women similarly sing folk songs that have reference to the stars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/katyo-a-unique-festival-that-reflects-traditional-astronomical-knowledge-inherited-over-generations/articleshow/79615331.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
December 8, 2020||Business||Food chain sales near pre-Covid level on festivals||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU: Restaurants and fast food chains across India are inching towards their pre-Covid sales numbers helped by a surge in demand during the festive season, rising number of online deliveries and improved dine-ins. McDonald’s outlets, for instance, especially on highways and in smaller cities such as Bharuch, Kolhapur, Nellore and Tirupati are even reporting higher sales figures than pre-Covid months. Tea cafe chain Chaayos is currently at 75% of its pre-Covid revenues, while in locations, such as Chandigarh, Navi Mumbai and Pune, Nexus Malls is witnessing shoppers queue up in front of restaurants. “While 95% of our food and beverage (F&B) partners are currently operational, we have signed up and opened 10 new ones,” said Jayen Naik, senior VP (operations & projects) at Nexus Malls. Even at five-star properties, such as Taj West End in Bengaluru, footfalls are showing no signs of slowing. “We are seeing our guests waiting to dine at a few of our restaurants,” said Somnath Mukherjee, area director (Karnataka) and GM – Taj West End, Bengaluru. “We also see an increase in demand for weddings and celebrations.” Apart from rising consumer confidence, a quick change in business model has also helped restaurants bounce back faster. Several restaurants, for instance, that have nearly reached pre-Covid levels have adopted an all-day dining model rather than just opening for lunch or dinner, said Rajendra Kalkar, president, west at The Phoenix Malls. “The only problem areas are restaurants that are dependent on business-related activity, such as in airports and business parks,” said Nitin Saluja, founder of Chaayos. “We are confident of touching pre-Covid numbers in three-six months.” Hardcastle Restaurants, which operates McDonald’s in the south and west, is close to full recovery, according to Saurabh Kalra, COO, McDonald’s India (west and south). Others, however, are cautious. Anjan Chatterjee, founder at Speciality Restaurants, which operates Mainland China and Oh! Calcutta, said things are yet to settle down. “But in cities where the number of cases have gone down, such as, Mumbai and Bengaluru, we are seeing more footfalls, close to 55%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/food-chain-sales-near-pre-covid-level-on-festivals/articleshow/79616437.cms||John Sarkar
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Hundreds of SP workers & leaders arrested across UP during its Kisan Yatra||PILIBHI/MEERUT/AGRA: Hundreds of Samajwadi Party workers and leaders, including its chief Akhilesh Yadav, were on Monday either arrested or detained as they hit the streets across Uttar Pradesh against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Yadav was detained in the morning while heading to Kannauj from Lucknow to lead the party’s Kisan Yatra. Almost all the big cities and towns saw the SP workers taking out a march and jostling with policemen. In Meerut, SP leader Atul Pradhan and Rajpal Singh led the charge. Scores of SP workers were put into busses and taken to police stations where they were let off after brief detention. In Aligarh and Mathura, hundreds of party workers were arrested. Aligarh’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G said that the SP workers were arrested from various places including the party’s office before they embarked on their rally. “The arrests were preventive under section 151 of CrPC to maintain law and order in the city,” said the SSP. He added that the Rapid Action Force (RAF) was also deployed to ensure law and order in the town. Those arrested in Aligarh included former MP Bijendra Singh, former MLAs Zamirullah Khan and Zafar Aalam. Singh said, “We did not flout any norm. It was just a motorcycle rally, not a crime.” In Mainpuri, former SP MP Tej Pratap Yadav and party’s MLAs including Raj Kumar Yadav staged a protest in support of farmers’ demand. While in Agra, several party workers including district president Ram Gopal Baghel were detained in their office. Similar protests were witnessed in other western UP districts, including Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli and Bijnor where SP leaders were kept under house arrest. In Bijnor, police didn’t allow the protest march. Bijnor SP Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “We have not let SP workers and leaders take out procession. They were put under house arrest.” In Pilibhit, police detained former UP minister Riaz Ahmad at his residence. Another former minister, Hemraj Verma, along with his supporters, was taken to Neuria police station after detention. While in Firozabad, SP’s state secretary Ramsevak Yadav and district president Durgpal Singh Yadav were not allowed to leave their homes. Several leaders of Shivpal Yadav’s Pragasheel Samajwadi party and Aam Aadmi Party were also detained. Firozabad SP Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Some SP workers were detained at their homes. No one was arrested. Without any valid permission from the district administration, no protest at a public place will be allowed.” In Etah, SP workers took out bike rallies. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had announced state-wide Kisan Yatra-- on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc-- to protest the new farm laws and lend support to the farmers’ cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hundreds-of-sp-workers-leaders-arrested-across-up-during-its-kisan-yatra/articleshow/79612935.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Rajkot||Saurashtra market to remain closed||The market yards of Saurashtra to remain closed on Tuesday on account of Bharat bandh call given by the agitating farmers. According to the traders Rajkot, Gondal, Junagadh, Jamnagar, Morbi, Amreli, Wankaner, Halvad, Jetpur, Upleta, Jasdan, Jamjodhpur, Khambhaliya, Kalavad, Dhrol, Visavadar and Mendrad market yard traders and agents have already announced bandh. The other three to four market yard traders are expected to join. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/saurashtra-market-to-remain-closed/articleshow/79612106.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Agra||SP’s Hathras dist prez arrested for embezzlement of scholarship funds for SC/ST students||Agra: Samajwadi Party district president of Hathras was arrested on Monday in connection with embezzlement of scholarship funds for SC/ST students worth Rs 57.54 lakh 14 years ago. He was arrested after the investigations by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) Kanpur unit found evidence against him. According to police, an FIR was lodged at Sikandararao police station in 2006 against two persons, including SP’s Yuvraj Singh Yadav, by a team formed by UP government after verifying a complaint filed against him by the then MLA from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Amar Singh Yadav. Yuvraj, who owns seven colleges in the district, was accused of misappropriation of funds and submitting fraudulent applications for scholarships and withdrawal of scholarship funds between 1999 and 2005. Talking with TOI, SP (EOW), Kanpur, Babu Ram, said during investigation it was found that 69 people were involved in the scam and of these, 58 are government officials from the district’s social welfare department, district education department and backward welfare department. “They will be nabbed soon,” he said, adding that so far, Yuvraj and his brother, Ravindra Singh, have been arrested. Initially, the case was investigated by Hathras police but subsequently, it was transferred to EOW after three years of the registration of the FIR. In September this year, on the request of the EOW, local police had made public announcements, urging people to disclose the whereabouts of the suspects and asking the accused to surrender.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/sps-hathras-dist-prez-arrested-for-embezzlement-of-scholarship-funds-for-sc/st-students/articleshow/79612111.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Brick prices shoot up as incessant rain halts production in Salem||Salem/Erode: Continuous spells of rainfall for the past couple of weeks may not be good news for people building new houses.The price of bricks rises as the production of bricks in kilns across Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts has been hit due to the continuous rain.The Erode district has 52 brick kilns and of them 26 are in the city limit. Most of the kilns are situated along Karur, Bhavani, Ammapet, Andhiyur and Sathyamangalam main roads. The Salem district has more than 250 kilns and of them nearly 110 kilns are functioning in and around Vazhapadi taluk. Namakkal district has 47 kilns, Dharmapuri district has 44 and Krishnagiri district has 18 kilns.Each chamber can produce nearly 15,000 bricks every day. However, the demand for the bricks is higher than the production.“But the continuous rains during the Nivar cyclone and later due to the Burevi cyclone halted brick production. So there is a temporary shortage for the bricks in the market,” said M Duraisamy, former secretary of the Erode District Brick Chamber Owners Association. “Not a single brick was made in the past 10 days in the kilns in the district,” he told TOI.N Balasubramani, a brick kiln owner from Vazhapadi in Salem district, said they need at least 16 days to produce a brick.At present, a single brick costs about Rs 8, excluding transportation as well as loading and unloading charges. Before the Nivar cyclone, the kiln owners sold a brick for Rs 6 including loading and unloading charges due to surplus production.However, the price rise has hit builders and contractors.M Ramesh, a building contractor, said the brick kiln owners utilising the situation to sell bricks for an exorbitant rate sans loading and unloading charges. “In cases where we can’t stop construction works, we don’t have any option but to buy the bricks at high price.But some of brick owners said only large kilns which maintain huge stock are able to do business now and about 60 per cent of the small and medium sized kilns are closed and without business since the cyclone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/brick-prices-shoot-up-as-incessant-rain-halts-production-in-salem/articleshow/79614079.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||IRT Perundurai students demand reduction in fees||Erode: The students and parents of IRT Perundurai Medical College on Monday protested on the college premises demanding the state government to reduce their college fees. One of the parents, K Balasubramaniam, told TOI that the college management was collecting Rs 3.85 lakh as fee instead of government fee of Rs 13,600. “How could a government institution collect fees on par with private medical college instead of government fixed fees,” he asked. “As the college has been taken over by the government, fees should be collected like other government colleges,” another parent P Nagaraj, questioned.The college management, revenue department and police department personnel held talks with the students and parents.“We have taken the issue with the state government,” a senior official said.Convinced over this, the students withdrew their protest and returned to their classes.Meanwhile, the government and private colleges in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts started functioning on Monday. “We have allowed the students after checking their body temperature,” a professor from the Dharmapuri government arts and science college said, adding that they refused to allow students if they don’t wear face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/irt-perundurai-students-demand-reduction-in-fees/articleshow/79614103.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||14 new cases recorded in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged 14 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 7,593 on Monday. With eight patients recovered and were discharged on the day, the hill district has seen 7,334 patients discharged so far as the recovery rate stands at 96.6%.Of the new cases, two are from Ooty while the remaining cases were reported from rural areas.Of the 217 active cases from the district, 28 people are being treated at government and private hospitals in Coimbatore.At least 52 patients are kept in home quarantine. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides Covid care centres. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/14-new-cases-recorded-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79614115.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Railway nod to build Metro line over tracks||PUNE: Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has started planning the construction of a crucial portion of the viaduct that would cross railway tracks in the Khadki area. MahaMetro was waiting on permission from the railway authorities, who, after studying the maps and sketches, and much deliberation, recently greenlit the plan. The Metro viaduct crosses railway tracks at two locations — in Khadki (PCMC-Swargate line) and near Sangam Bridge (Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor). This work will be executed by MahaMetro under supervision from the railways. If things go according to plan, MahaMetro officials said they expect to start the work by April or May next year. After crossing the tracks near Khadki railway station, the Metro line will enter the Range Hills area. Officials said they have expedited the laying of the pier foundations and construction of the elevated station in the area, in addition to pillars on both sides of the tracks. An official this portion of the viaduct would be 79 metres long. “We have taken into account the space needed for four sets of railway tracks, though only two pairs are in operation right now. This will be the first time the viaduct will cross tracks in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad,” the official said, adding that they were putting final touches to the design.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/railway-nod-to-build-metro-line-over-tracks/articleshow/79614116.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 8, 2020||Udaipur||MLSU first varsity in Rajasthan with max degrees deposited in digilocker||UDAIPUR: With around 2 lakh degrees on digital platform, Udaipur’s Mohanlal Sukhadia University has become the first higher education institute in Rajasthan to have the highest number of awards and degrees deposited in the National Academic Depository (NAD). NAD is a 24X7 online storehouse of all academic awards viz.certificates, diplomas, degrees, mark-sheets etc. duly digitised and lodged by academic institutions/boards/eligibility assessment bodies. It not only ensures easy access to and retrieval of an academic award, but also validates and guarantees its authenticity and safe storage. “We have deposited all the degrees awarded so far by the university. Digilocker is a flagship initiative of Ministry of Electronics & IT under Digital India programme. The programme aims at digital empowerment of citizen by providing access to authentic digital documents in citizens’ digital document wallet,” said VC of MLSU, Amarika Singh. The university’s spokesperson Kunjan Acharya said the issued documents in Digi Locker system are deemed to be on a par with original physical documents as per Rule 9A of the Information Technology Rules (Preservation and Retention of Information by intermediaries providing Digital Locker facilities). HRD ministry created NAD in 2016 not just to provide facility for safe storage and retrieval of academic certificates but also for their verification to put a check on the use of fake academic credentials. “The digital upload project in MLSU took off three years ago. The team has successfully uploaded around 2 lakh graduate, post graduate, PhD and various diploma certificates awarded by the university so far. After the convocation ceremony this month, the degrees granted in past one year will also be uploaded digitally,” Acharya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mlsu-first-varsity-in-raj-with-max-degrees-deposited-in-digilocker/articleshow/79614112.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Two workers die of asphyxiation||Hyderabad: Two construction workers died while they were working at an under-construction building due to suspected lack of oxygen at Asif Nagar on Monday. Asif Nagar police said Chintu, 22, and Kotesh, 25, were constructing a sump. When they were inside the sump, which is around 18 feet deep, the duo suddenly fainted. The other workers, who saw them faint, immediately brought them up and shifted them to hospital where they were declared brought death. Later, the family members of the deceased and their co-workers shifted the bodies to the construction site and staged a protest demanding the house owner pay compensation. Police reached the spot to shift the bodies to Osmania General Hospital to conduct post-mortem examination (PME), but the workers demanded a commitment first for payment of compensation. After holding discussions with the protesters, police shifted the bodies for PME. Police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-workers-die-of-asphyxiation/articleshow/79614109.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Chartered NMR service draws flak from politicians, rly unions||Coimbatore: A day after MP P R Natarajan issued a statement condemning a private concern operating Nilgiri Mountain Rail for the weekends, the Social Justice Party has announced a demonstration protesting the move at Mettupalayam Station on Wednesday. On Monday, the railway employees mazdoor union also condemned the move stating that it would end up in loss of postings on the route.The railways which reiterated that this was only a month-long arrangement, insisted that these private charters would not affect resumption of regular NMR services. They also say that allowing such private charter services would help increase revenue and meet the cost of operating the heritage train, which has been running on a loss so far.Monday saw both Social Justice Party and the railways union issue strong statements against operation of the private charter train. “This special charter train, renamed as TN 43, charges Rs 3,000 per person on one-way trip, which makes it unaffordable for the common man. It is as expensive as a flight ticket,” says Social Justice Party general secretary Vellamalai A Nagarajan. “We demand that the railways take back the train and operate it themselves with the normal fare,” he adds.The Railways Mazdoor Union said the private charter service, who has a set of young women in a uniform like air hostesses, have replaced their ticket checkers along the route. “They have asked two staff not to come to work and the private concern has set up a ticket booking office at the station. This move will eventually lead to two postings from NMR getting removed and staff having to be transferred,” says divisional secretary, Salem, Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU), M Govindan. “Soon more posts like staff at ticket booking counters, firemen and electrical men will also be removed,” he added.The railways clarified that they had been chartering trips on NMR for private people since mid-2018, when a British couple through IRCTC paid Rs 3 lakh to travel along up the hill. “In this case, TN 43 approached us requesting for a chartering of the train, every weekend, from December to January first week. Private chartering requires no tenders or contracts. Since the route was free, we allowed a 7.30am departure. This does not replace regular services. While we can permit charters, we are not the authority to restart regular train services,” clarified the railways. “The ministry and board are yet to permit restarting NMR regular services. But if NMR restarts this month, we will cancel the private charter or change their timings and give them another locomotive,” it said. This company pays railways Rs 4.93 lakh per two-way trip.Railways says these private charter services and special trains that they operated on weekends are some desperate measures to increase revenue for operation of the train. “An up and down trip of the NMR costs us Rs 1.5 lakh, despite the sizeable hike in fares on March 1, even a full train earns us only Rs 1.4 lakh, incurring a loss of Rs 10,000. So, these charter services during weekends, helps us mitigate losses, making operation of the mountain rail a sustainable one,” an officer said. In March 1, a railways official said they spend Rs 30 crore a year running and maintaining NMR, and even with the fare hike they are only looking at an income of Rs 8 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chartered-nmr-service-draws-flak-from-politicians-rly-unions/articleshow/79614114.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Chargesheet submitted in minor’s sodomy case||ALWAR: Within two days after a four-year-old girl was sodomised in Alwar’s Thanagazi allegedly by her cousin, who is also a minor, cops presented the chargesheet in the juvenile justice court. The girl was admitted to the hospital and is stable, while the accused was detained the same day. The minor boy has been booked for sodomy. The incident happened when the accused was alone at home with the child. When the 17-year-old accused was alone at home with the girl on Friday, he sodomised her. When the mother returned home, she found the child bleeding. She was immediately taken to the hospital following which the staff informed local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chargesheet-submitted-in-minors-sodomy-case/articleshow/79614090.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur, Jodhpur collectively report over 30% of state’s daily infections||JAIPUR: Share of Jaipur and Jodhpur in daily new Covid-19 infections of the state was reported at 35.1% on Monday, increasing from Sunday’s share of 33.6%. Though the number of collective cases reported in Jaipur and Jodhpur have decreased, the share of the two worst-affected districts has increased in state’s Covid daily new cases. On November 30, Jaipur and Jodhpur had reported 45.6% of the cases in state. Since then, the percentage is going down. For the past three days, it remained between 34% and 36%. Jaipur and Jodhpur are the worst Covid-affected districts. Acknowledging the fact, a Centre’s team had reviewed the pandemic situation on December 3 and suggested the state government to intensify activities for contact tracing, testing and containment in the affected areas. “We are taking measures to bring down the daily infections in Jaipur and Jodhpur as these are the two districts which collectively report more than 30% of the daily new infections of the state,” said a senior health department official. Besides, nineteen persons died, while 1,927 others tested positive in the state on Monday bringing its overall tally to 2,82,512. With 19 deaths, the state toll rose to 2,448. Districts which reported new cases were: Jaipur (475), Jodhpur (203), Kota (137), Bharatpur (96), Nagaur (89), Udaipur (84), Alwar (78), Pali (75), Dungarpur (70), Bhilwara (64), Ajmer (60), Barmer (56), Tonk (52), Rajsamand (40), Chittorgarh (40), Jhunjhunu (39), Sriganaganagar (38), Bundi (27), Sawai Madhopur (26), Jalore (23), Jaisalmer (22), Sikar (22), Hanumangarh (21), Bikaner (20), Banswara (15), Sirohi (15), Dausa (12), Jhalawar (11), Churu (10), Baran (4) and Karauli (3). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 459, four persons died in Jodhpur taking its fatalities to 257, two persons died in Ajmer taking its toll to 200, Bikaner 164th, Bharatpur 114th, Udaipur 105th, Sikar 84th, Nagaur 80th, Bhilwara 35th, Dungarpur 33rd, Tonk 31st and Jhalawar reported its 19th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-collectively-report-over-30-of-states-daily-infections/articleshow/79617085.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||HC trips power play in Mollem, scraps Tamnar construction nod||PANAJI: In a setback to the state government ahead of the zilla panchayat election on December 12, the high court of Bombay at Goa on Monday quashed the construction licence issued to Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd for a substation power plant at Sangod, Mollem. The plant is one of three controversial projects against which there is strong public resentment. While the government said that the decision on the issue of double-tracking would be taken after the Union minister concerned visits Goa, it indicated that the power transmission project would be pursued by the government on the grounds that if not done, the state’s power situation would be badly hit after two years. Villagers approached the high court stating that the construction licence dated October 5 was issued by the sarpanch of the village “in breach of the provisions of the Goa Panchayat Raj Act”, and that no resolution was taken at the gram sabha approving the grant. Villagers Krishna Zore, Kanta Shelke, Uttam Shelke and Antonio Mario Barreto filed the petition seeking revocation of the construction licence granted by the Mollem panchayat. The petition pertains to the establishment of the substation power plant, construction of residential units, pump house, well and badminton court, and amalgamation of plots in Sangod. At a panchayat meeting on September 11, it was resolved by a majority of the members of the panchayat that the application would be referred to the gram sabha for deliberation and discussion. On that same day, it applied for permission to hold a gram sabha meeting on October 4. But permission for this was denied by the deputy collector and sub-divisional officer, Dharbandora, stating that due to Covid, there may be a possibility of a large number of people gathering at the meeting. The villagers stated that they were surprised to note that on October 5, the sarpanch issued the construction licence. “The sarpanch has no powers under the Goa Panchayat Raj Act to issue construction licenses, that too without a resolution to that effect from the panchayat,” the petitioners submitted in court. “…However, the sarpanch unilaterally issued the license though she is not empowered to do so under the Act.” In the petition, the villagers said that they have no proper details of the project and its impact on the village. “It is supposed to be a major project involving the establishment of a substation power plant, amalgamation of plots, construction, laying of overhead electric lines, etc, and therefore the villagers are entitled to know its impact particularly on the environment and infrastructure of the village,” they stated in their petition. On July 22, 25-30 villagers from Palaskata ward had sent a letter to the village panchayat asking for clarity on the project, since it appeared to involve the laying of overhead electric lines which may impact the village. Since this information was not furnished, a reminder was issued on August 29. The sarpanch then invited a few villagers for a meeting at the panchayat office in September to discuss the project, where it was decided that the application would be placed before the gram sabha at its next meeting for discussion and deliberation. This did not happen. The Tamnar project obtained its technical clearance from the town and country planning’s Quepem office in October last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-trips-power-play-in-mollem-scraps-tamnar-construction-nod/articleshow/79615375.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Soon, celebrations at public places will need police nod||NASHIK: Weddings, engagements, birthday parties and other religious events being held at public places will need permission from police, who have prepared a draft notice to be soon floated for suggestions and objections from citizens, said commissioner of police Deepak Pandey on Monday. Pandey also issued a warning that citizens, activists or political parties holding protests without police permission will be dealt with firmly. “Although police permission is mandatory for protests, it is noticed that some people don’t ignore the rule. Such violators will face strict action.” The officer clarified that police permission is not restricted to the Covid-19 pandemic and that the rule will be made permanent. “The aim is to ensure that programmes in public or open spaces should not cause inconvenience to citizens. This would be applicable for all programmes that witness gathering of people,” he said. “While police would give approval to programmes, the organisers concerned will have to adhere to the set terms and conditions. The streets should be free for use by members of the general public,” said Pandey A notice about the same would be issued by police within a couple of weeks, following which citizens would be given a month’s time to raise objections, if any, before a final decision is taken. According to Pande, people organise programmes like wedding ceremonies, birthdays and religious and political programmes. Processions are taken out on roads, which affect the movement of vehicular traffic. In many parts of the city, people erect pandals on roads in front of their houses for programmes, which results into blocking the road. The use of loudspeakers, bands and firecrackers by people is another nuisance, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/soon-celebrations-at-public-places-will-need-police-nod/articleshow/79612117.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||130 employees of Sterling Biotech Ltd conduct protest over pending salary||Udhagamandalam: As many as 130 employees of Sterling Biotech Ltd, a private industrial unit manufacturing edible and non-edible grade gelatin at Sandynallah in Ooty, staged a protest on Monday demanding salary arrears. The pollution control board (PCB) had closed the company in June 2018 after the firm failed to set up zero liquid discharge system.After the company was closed for causing environmental pollution, the employees are given 50% of the salary while the management cadres draw full salary, said U Murthi, a union leader. “They had agreed to set up zero liquid discharge system within six months. But even after two years, they have not taken any initiative to reopen it,” he said.Revenue department officials have scheduled a talk with the employees, company management and the labour commission on Wednesday. The factory was established in 1969 at Sandynallah, a hamlet on the main Ooty – Gudalur – Mysore highway. It was managed by Rallis India, a subsidiary of Tata Chemicals, before Sterling Biotech Ltd took over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/130-employees-of-sterling-biotech-ltd-conduct-protest-over-pending-salary/articleshow/79614137.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Four of family end life||Salem: A man, his wife and two sons committed suicide at Ponnammapet in the city on Monday. Police said the couple’s elder son afflicted with cancer died three months ago. They suspect the grieving couple could have taken the extreme step as they were unable to get over the death. The deceased were V Murugan, 38, of Vaikkalpattarai area, Gokila, 35, Vasantha Kumar, 15, and Karthik, 12. While Murugan was a barber and Gokila was a housewife. Vasantha Kumar was a Class X student and Karthik was in Class VII.The Ammapet police reached the spot after being alerted by neighbours. Around 11am, neighbours peeped through a door gap after the family members didn’t step out of the house the whole morning. They found the bodies lying on the floor.Deputy commissioners Chandrasekaran (law and order) and Senthil (crime and traffic) also inspected the scene. Chandrasekaran said the couple’s eldest son Madhan Kumar, 17, a Class XI student, died of cancer three months ago. The couple had been upset since then, he added. No suicide note was found. Police recovered a tumbler with undrunk tea in it. The officer said the deceased might have consumed pesticide mixed with tea.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-of-family-end-life/articleshow/79614158.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Dec 10 last date for online Haj application||Hyderabad: The last date to submit online applications for the Haj pilgrimage is December 10, 2020. Chairman of Telangana State Haj Committee (TSHC) Mohammed Masiullah Khan said that interested pilgrims should log on to www.hajcommittee.gov.in and complete the application process. TSHC’s assistant executive officer Irfan Shareef said that pilgrims must possess a machine-readable passport with the expiry date not earlier than January 10, 2022. For further information, interested can log on to www.telanganastatehajcommittee.com or contact 040-23298793. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dec-10-last-date-for-online-haj-application/articleshow/79614231.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ajmer||Groom tests positive on wedding day in Alwar||ALWAR/JAIPUR: A day after a bride tested positive for Covid-19 in Baran on her wedding day, a bridegroom was found infected with the virus in Alwar district on his marriage day on Monday. The groom belongs to Mundawar tehshil of Alwar district. His marriage was scheduled for Monday evening with a bride from Kutina village. Before he could leave for the wedding, he was tested positive. Following which the district administration and health department officials rushed to his residence and stopped wedding party. After a lot of discussions with the family members, the district administration allowed the groom to get married, but following all the Covid protocol. Medical team incharge Dr Akshay Yadav said they allowed the groom, his mother and father, bride and pandit at the place where the mandap was installed. “We have made it clear that all of them have to wear PPE kits at the time of marriage and not more than five people will be allowed. The marriage will be solemnised following Covid guidelines,” said Yadav. Besides, health department is taking samples of all the guests who had attended the pre-wedding ceremonies held at the groom’s place. At the time of writing the report, the groom was yet to reach the place of wedding. Besides, in Baran, the health department officials collected samples of 14 relatives of the bride, who tested positive for Covid on the day of her marriage. “Among those whose samples have been collected are the groom, bride’s parents, bride’s grandparents, uncle, aunt and brother,” said Dr Arif, block chief medical health officer in Baran district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/groom-tests-positive-on-wedding-day-in-alwar/articleshow/79614157.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Driver held for misbehaving with cop||Hyderabad: A car driver who had allegedly misbehaved with a traffic constable in Shamshabad was arrested by RGI Airport police here on Monday. On Saturday, the accused, Sriramulu, was driving in a drunken state. According to the police, Sriramulu was given a toll token near a toll booth on Shamshabad ORR. However, Sriramulu took objection and created a nuisance by stopping the traffic. When the toll staff called up Cyberabad police, their patrolling team reached the location. “The assistant sub-inspector (ASI) tried to convince him, but he used foul words against the police and held the ASI’s collar. He was immediately taken into custody on Saturday and was arrested on Monday,” police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-held-for-misbehaving-with-cop/articleshow/79614128.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur, Jodhpur collectively report over 30% of state’s daily infections||JAIPUR: Share of Jaipur and Jodhpur in daily new Covid-19 infections of the state was reported at 35.1% on Monday, increasing from Sunday’s share of 33.6%. Though the number of collective cases reported in Jaipur and Jodhpur have decreased, the share of the two worst-affected districts has increased in state’s Covid daily new cases. On November 30, Jaipur and Jodhpur had reported 45.6% of the cases in state. Since then, the percentage is going down. For the past three days, it remained between 34% and 36%. Jaipur and Jodhpur are the worst Covid-affected districts. Acknowledging the fact, a Centre’s team had reviewed the pandemic situation on December 3 and suggested the state government to intensify activities for contact tracing, testing and containment in the affected areas. “We are taking measures to bring down the daily infections in Jaipur and Jodhpur as these are the two districts which collectively report more than 30% of the daily new infections of the state,” said a senior health department official. Besides, nineteen persons died, while 1,927 others tested positive in the state on Monday bringing its overall tally to 2,82,512. With 19 deaths, the state toll rose to 2,448. Districts which reported new cases were: Jaipur (475), Jodhpur (203), Kota (137), Bharatpur (96), Nagaur (89), Udaipur (84), Alwar (78), Pali (75), Dungarpur (70), Bhilwara (64), Ajmer (60), Barmer (56), Tonk (52), Rajsamand (40), Chittorgarh (40), Jhunjhunu (39), Sriganaganagar (38), Bundi (27), Sawai Madhopur (26), Jalore (23), Jaisalmer (22), Sikar (22), Hanumangarh (21), Bikaner (20), Banswara (15), Sirohi (15), Dausa (12), Jhalawar (11), Churu (10), Baran (4) and Karauli (3). Four persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 459, four persons died in Jodhpur taking its fatalities to 257, two persons died in Ajmer taking its toll to 200, Bikaner 164th, Bharatpur 114th, Udaipur 105th, Sikar 84th, Nagaur 80th, Bhilwara 35th, Dungarpur 33rd, Tonk 31st and Jhalawar reported its 19th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-collectively-report-over-30-of-states-daily-infections/articleshow/79614148.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Market Yard traders oppose ‘Y’ flyover||PUNE: Traders from the Market Yard area have opposed one of the landings of the proposed Y-shaped flyover in the area claiming that it would add to the traffic congestion instead of solving it. At a meeting on Monday, the traders demanded that the flyover wing landing on the Shivneri Road in front of one of the gates of Market Yard should be shifted to Gandhadham chowk to improve traffic movement in the area. Parvati MLA Madhuri Misal, who attended the meeting, said there had been a strong opposition from the traders to the flyover, especially to the wing landing at Market Yard. “We have now suggested that the PMC extend the flyover up to Gangadham chowk,” she said. Popatlal Ostwal, president of the Poona Merchant Chamber, said most traders were of the opinion that the sketch of flyover needed change. Sanjay Shinde, a regular commuter, also made the flyover extensio demand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/market-yard-traders-oppose-y-flyover/articleshow/79614159.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Annual ghazal festival goes online this year||Pune: The Cancer Patients Aid Association and Parent's Association Thalassaemic Unit Trust, engaged in the welfare of thalassemia and cancer patients, will hold the annual ghazal festival, ‘Khazana’, online on December 19 and 20 at 8pm. The festival will have performances by Pankaj Udhas and Anup Jalota, among others. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/annual-ghazal-festival-goes-online-this-year/articleshow/79614153.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Agra||Hundreds of SP workers & leaders arrested across UP during its Kisan Yatra||MEERUT/AGRA/PILIBHIT: Hundreds of Samajwadi Party workers and leaders, including its chief Akhilesh Yadav, were on Monday either arrested or detained as they hit the streets across Uttar Pradesh against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Yadav was detained in the morning while heading to Kannauj from Lucknow to lead the party’s Kisan Yatra. Almost all the big cities and towns saw the SP workers taking out a march and jostling with policemen. In Meerut, SP leader Atul Pradhan and Rajpal Singh led the charge. Scores of SP workers were put into busses and taken to police stations where they were let off after brief detention. In Aligarh and Mathura, hundreds of party workers were arrested. Aligarh’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G said that the SP workers were arrested from various places including the party’s office before they embarked on their rally. “The arrests were preventive under section 151 of CrPC to maintain law and order in the city,” said the SSP. He added that the Rapid Action Force (RAF) was also deployed to ensure law and order in the town. Those arrested in Aligarh included former MP Bijendra Singh, former MLAs Zamirullah Khan and Zafar Aalam. Singh said, “We did not flout any norm. It was just a motorcycle rally, not a crime.” In Mainpuri, former SP MP Tej Pratap Yadav and party’s MLAs including Raj Kumar Yadav staged a protest in support of farmers’ demand. While in Agra, several party workers including district president Ram Gopal Baghel were detained in their office. Similar protests were witnessed in other western UP districts, including Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli and Bijnor where SP leaders were kept under house arrest. In Bijnor, police didn’t allow the protest march. Bijnor SP Lakshmi Nivas Mishra said, “We have not let SP workers and leaders take out procession. They were put under house arrest.” In Pilibhit, police detained former UP minister Riaz Ahmad at his residence. Another former minister, Hemraj Verma, along with his supporters, was taken to Neuria police station after detention. While in Firozabad, SP’s state secretary Ramsevak Yadav and district president Durgpal Singh Yadav were not allowed to leave their homes. Several leaders of Shivpal Yadav’s Pragasheel Samajwadi party and Aam Aadmi Party were also detained. Firozabad SP Mukesh Chandra Mishra said, “Some SP workers were detained at their homes. No one was arrested. Without any valid permission from the district administration, no protest at a public place will be allowed.” In Etah, SP workers took out bike rallies. SP president Akhilesh Yadav had announced state-wide Kisan Yatra-- on foot, bicycles, motorcycles, tractors, etc-- to protest the new farm laws and lend support to the farmers’ cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hundreds-of-sp-workers-leaders-arrested-across-up-during-its-kisan-yatra/articleshow/79612121.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Private schools add digital devices for fitting in with reopening norms||PUNE: Private schools in the city are gearing up for reopening and have begun adding to their infrastructure. From Covid-19 safety and precautions, to more computers, Wi-Fi, laboratories, D-tech labs, and better libraries, they are getting equipped to adjust to the new norms. At Victorious Kidss Educares (VKE) classes have been modified and the school has a New Normal Reinforcement Team to monitor all the protocols. President of VKE Robbin Ghosh said they are waiting for the government’s announcement to reopen. “Till then, we will use this time for the students to learn the new protocols at school. As we prepare to keep students safe, we are also getting ready for teaching and learning in an environment which has the same quality. Students will be back after a long time, and there will be many questions about how schools are going to cope. This transition back to physical schooling from online schooling won’t be easy, but we will make it a smooth one.” Director and honorary secretary of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Nandkumar Kakirde said at present, there is high reliance on digital mode so the school upgraded its infrastructure by installing fibre optic cables. “Every floor in the building has high-end cables for the best connectivity. Our teachers prefer to come to school and conduct their online classes. In future, when the schools reopen this facility will surely help them,” he added. At Sanskriti Group of Schools, the school’s management has begun keeping the campus ready for reopening. Trustee Praneet Mungli said they have invested in technology and reconfigured their classrooms to offer a hybrid learning model where students can either attend physical classes or online classes. “Even though we have not yet fixed the date to resume, we have been providing extensive training to our housekeeping, security and other helping staff to implement the new norms,” Mungli added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/private-schools-add-digital-devices-for-fitting-in-with-reopening-norms/articleshow/79614192.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Tourists brave rain, cold weather to visit Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Despite the wet weather prevailing in the Nilgiris, people thronged the tourist spots that reopened for public on Monday. Doddabetta peak, Ooty Lake and Shooting Point saw crowds on the day of reopening. All tourist spots in the Nilgiris were closed in the last week of March due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While gardens, such as the Government Botanical Garden (GBG), Government Rose Garden (GRG) Tea Park near Doddabetta and the Arboretum in Ooty and the Sim’s Park in Coonoor were opened for the public on September 9, other tourist spots such as Ooty Lake, Pykara Lake and Doddabetta peak remained closed till Sunday. While the horticulture department manages the gardens, lakes are managed by the tourism department and Shooting Point, Doddabetta, Lamb’s Rock and Dolphin’s Nose, among others, are managed by the forest department. Eco-development committees (EDC) manage the tourism activities.As plastic water bottles are banned in the Nilgiris, tourists are requested to makes use of the 61 water ATMs installed at the tourist attractions, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said while reopening the Doddabetta peak. “The water is tested periodically and it is safe to drink,” she said and appealed to the visitors to wear masks. “Appearing in public places without mask is a violation and a fine of Rs 200 would be imposed on violators.”“It is nice to visit Doddabetta peak after a long time. It is refreshing to be on the top of the peak here,” said M Ravikumar, a tourist from Salem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tourists-brave-rain-cold-weather-to-visit-nilgiris/articleshow/79614196.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Will decide after Dec 14: Mollem panchayat president||PANAJI: Following the interim order of the high court of Bombay at Goa on the Goa Tamnar power transmission line, Mollem sarpanch Tanavi Kerkar told TOI that a decision on further procedures will be taken by the local body over the project only after the code of conduct for the zilla panchayat election ends on December 14. Kerkar said that the gram sabha could not be held to discuss the project due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We were supposed to hold a gram sabha on October 4, and it was to be decided whether or not an NOC is to be given,” said Kerkar. “But the collector did not give us permission to hold the gram sabha as planned. So on October 5, we gave our NOC to the Tamnar substation project with four of the seven panch members giving their nod to the project. Now we will decide after December 14 on the next course of action after the code of conduct ends.” Minister and local MLA Deepak Pauskar, however, said that the proper procedures not being followed in issuing permissions to the substation project was the fault of the panchayat’s secretary. “It is the panchayat secretary’s fault,” he said. “When four out of seven panchayat members had given the decision, it is a majority decision, but the secretary had recorded that only three members of Mollem panchayat signed the NOC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-decide-after-dec-14-mollem-panchayat-prez/articleshow/79615376.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Truck owners warn of indefinite protest from December 27||Salem: The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) alleged that the state transport department officials were compelling the truck owners to purchase GPS gadgets and reflecting stickers from only specific companies. R Shanmugappa, general secretary of AIMTC - south India, said, speed governors have been sold for an exorbitant price in the state. He warned off indefinite protests from December 27, if these issues were addressed. “While a speed governor is available for Rs 1,500 in Karnataka, it is sold at Rs 8,000 in Tamil Nadu,” he told reporters in the city on Monday. Further officials are compelling the truck owners to install speed governors from two particular companies, he alleged.He said repeated pleas to the minister were not addressed. “Even there is no response to petition submitted with the chief minister,” he added. Besides, Shanmugappa said the stated had not reduced the VAT tax on diesel and the quarterly tax for the trucks as other states. Meanwhile, the state president of the Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners Federation (SL-TNLOF) Kumarasamy said the truck owners will be participating in the Bharat Bandh today to extend their support to farmers. “Trucks will not be operated between 6am and 6pm on Tuesday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/truck-owners-warn-of-indefinite-protest-from-december-27/articleshow/79614175.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||Take an armchair tour of Vadodara’s history||VADODARA: Get your hot cuppa and the crispies, we are going on a tour of the city. Don’t feel like moving out in the cold? No worries. You won’t need to. Sit back in your favourite chair and take a relaxed virtual tour of the city’s rich art, culture and heritage. City-based art historian Chandrashekhar Patil has launched a first-of-its-kind channel ‘Sayaji Nagri’ on YouTube that brings out various facets of the culturally vibrant city. “I have been documenting the city’s interesting features including its people since many years. Whenever I came across some unique buildings, architecture or stories of the monuments, I took their video,” Patil told TOI. Now he has converted the treasure trove of the videos into short films. “I realised that there is so much about the city that people are still not aware of. And what better way to reach out to the citizens than the social media. So I decided to make short films of five to 10 minutes each and put them on my channel whose subscription is free for everyone,” Patil said. One of the first short films, he recently uploaded was about a ‘Tamrapatra’ belonging to the 9th century that was found during an excavation the city. Kept at the Oriental Institute, it mentions Vadodara’s name as ‘Vatapatrak’. “I have a collection of 1,000 such videos regarding the history of the erstwhile Baroda state as well contemporary city and its citizens. I will upload a new short film every few days,” he added. Patil said that the short films won’t be just about the heritage buildings or havelis and palaces. “The city offers a variety of cuisines apart from fascinating fables and interesting citizens who have some amazing collections,” he said. Patil himself has a huge collection of ancient toys that are centuries old. An art curator, he is an ardent painter and also organizes heritage walks in the walled city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/take-an-armchair-tour-of-vadodaras-history/articleshow/79612131.cms||Tushar Tere
December 8, 2020||Pune||Parents rush to keep documents in order for kids’ nursery admissions||PUNE: The pre-primary admissions have started for the new academic year in private non-state board schools ushering a busy time for parents. They are getting organised collecting documents, getting Aadhaar cards readied for their children, procuring admission forms from schools, and ensuring that their internet facility at home is free of interruptions with the process going totally online. Schools have started selling admission forms for the nursery and junior kindergarten, and in a fee cases for senior kindergarten, and standard I. They have a list of documents that parents have to submit during the process. These include family photographs, birth certificates, and even report cards. A set of documents is required to be submitted by the applicants at the time of applications and it varies from school-to-school. Rishi Solanki, a parent from Kalyaninagar, said, “We are applying to three schools in our vicinity for our four-year-old daughter. Since the last two days we have been collecting all the documents as requested by the schools, including the identification proofs.” Some schools have sought rent agreements if the families do not have their own houses.  Getting an Aadhaar card was also a hurdle for many. work from home parents.  “We had to make the rounds of the nearest post office and banks to get one done. In this pandemic situation, it is not recommended. But, the document is necessary as mandated by the school to avoid any frauds in admission,” a parent said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-rush-to-keep-documents-in-order-for-kids-nursery-admissions/articleshow/79614204.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
December 8, 2020||Business||Wipro to roll out pay hikes from January 1||BENGALURU: The Thierry Delaporte-led Wipro is spreading some early New Year cheer. The Bengaluru-based firm is rolling out hikes for eligible employees in the junior band (B3 and below) effective January 1. Employees up to the B3 band comprise 80% of its 1.8 lakh employees. All eligible employees at the mid-level (C1 band and above) will receive salary increases effective June 1 next year. The hikes, sources said, would be in the range of 6%-8% for offshore employees, and 3%-4% for onsite staff. Wipro didn’t comment on the quantum of hikes. The overhang of the pandemic has forced IT firms to revisit their appraisal cycles. Wipro’s annual increment is normally effective June. Those in the C1 band and above have missed one cycle. “Our employees have shown remarkable resolve and resilience in ensuring seamless business continuity and maintaining high standards of service in these challenging times. Wipro has announced 100% variable pay linked to business metrics for all employees for both the third quarter (October-December) and the fourth quarter (January-March) of financial year 2020-21,” the company said in response to TOI’s query. Read AlsoNew CEO drives Wipro stock up 70% without stepping into officeIn the five months since he took over as chief executive officer of Wipro Ltd, Thierry Delaporte has yet to visit the Indian outsourcer’s Bangalore headquarters once. Instead, the 53-year-old has been on a virtual tour from his home in Paris, meeting with managers, workers and customers around theThis follows the 100% variable pay that was paid out for the July-September quarter. Separately, Wipro rolled out promotions for high performers in bands up to B3 effective December 1. “Close to 7,000 employees in bands up to B3 have been promoted,” it said. The number of promotions is one of the highest in the last three years. CIO quits: Wipro CIO Rohit Adlakha has quit the company after a 25-year innings. He was also the chief digital officer and global head of its AI platform Wipro Holmes. During his long stint, he has held several positions in sales, delivery and P&L management. When TOI asked Wipro about the exit, the company said its president and chief operating officer Bhanumurthy B M will oversee the CIO function and other responsibilities of Adlakha until a successor is announced. "We thank Rohit for his contributions to Wipro over these years and wish him the best in his future endeavours,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wipro-to-roll-out-pay-hikes-from-january-1/articleshow/79616441.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Major and minor outfits join hands for farmers strike||Nagpur: Local level farm outfits across the region have joined hands, taking along even sundry social organizations, to take part in Tuesday’s Bharat bandh agitation against the new agriculture laws. Members of Sikh community in the city have also expressed solidarity with farmers from Punjab agitating at the Delhi border. A protest meet is planned by Nagpur Truckers’ Unit, an association of transporters, at Teka Naka, in support of Punjab farmers.Impact of the agitations are expected in the taluka places and smaller towns like district headquarters, said activists. Apart from bigger organization like Swabhimani Shetkari Sangathan, which mainly has presence in western Maharashtra, a number of splinter groups backed by political parties are expected to join, said sources. The market yards run by agriculture produce market committees, including that in Kalamna, may be shut on Tuesday.Devanand Pawar, a senior Congress leader from Yavatmal, said a meeting of over 40 outfits, which included farmers’ and social organizations apart from traders’ bodies was held on Sunday. As the traders’ cooperation was sought, a major response is expected from the farmers in general too, he said. Pawar said the outfits include Samata Parva — a Dalit body, Prahar — a party led by minister of state for school education Bachu Kadu, farmers’ bodies Shetkari Nayah Haqqa Samiti, and Kisan Putra Sangharsh Samiti, apart from others will take part in the protest. Congress party’s farmers’ arm Kisan Congress is also mobilizing farmers.Vijay Jawandhia, a veteran farm activist from Wardha district, said even there more than 40 outfits held a meeting. Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, the farmers arm of Communist Party of India (CPI), and leaders of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were among them. “A farm leader at Rajura in Chandrapur district has submitted a letter on my letter head to seek permission for holding a protest,” said Jawandhia. “We are expecting support from the village level too. The farmers have been asked to carry out protests in their villages itself instead of coming to the towns,” said Yashwant Zade of Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha.Former MP Raju Shetti of Shetkari Swabhimani Paksha claimed that the agitation will get full support not only in western Maharashtra but also in Vidarbha. “Our party has a base even in Vidarbha and farmers are expected to mobilize in good numbers,” he said.“Protests are expected in almost every taluka place. There is general discontent among agriculturists due to which even the common farmer is expected to take part in the agitation on Tuesday,” said Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swabhiman Mission (VNSSM), the state government think tank on agrarian crisis.Tiwari, who was earlier an activist, said a number of big and small organizations have joined hands for the strike.However, Shetkari Sangathana, which had carried out vehement agitations to press for farmers rights till the 1980s, will not take part in the strike. The organization formed by late Sharad Joshi has backed a free market policy and use of latest technology in agriculture.“We are not only supporting the laws but also want that the provisions that call for again imposing stock limit if the markets go beyond a certain limit must be done away it. The law calls for bringing back stock limits if the rates go beyond 50% of the average for perishable agricultural items and 100% for horticultural products. Prices are expected to increase quite often because of the market fluctuations. If the limits are imposed frequently it will only hamper free trade. The limits should be imposed only in dire emergencies like war or natural calamities,” said Anil Ghanawat of Shetkari Sangathana.President of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) Dipen Agrawal assured farmers that trading community is with them in their fight for justice, but due to prolonged closure of businesses over last seven months, traders will not pull down shutters on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/major-and-minor-outfits-join-hands-for-farmers-strike/articleshow/79612943.cms||Shishir Arya
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||NU ATKT exams of non-final year students soon||Nagpur: In some good news for thousands of failed students of first and second years, Nagpur University would be conducting their examinations shortly, probably before the end of this month, according to its officials. Their papers have not been held since April due to Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown. The university would be entrusting colleges with conducting these examinations after earlier allowing them to hold exams of final year failed students. “We would soon be coming out with a direction in this regard. The Academic and Management councils have already cleared the proposal. Now only Board of Examinations and Evaluation’s (BOEE) permission is remaining,” BOEE director Prafulla Sable told TOI. Pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe said this exam would be conducted in traditional pen-paper format. “The online exams through mobile were limited only for final year students. This exam for failure non-final year students would be conducted at various centres and strict social distancing norms would be followed. There would be changes in seating arrangements,” he said. The government had already made it clear the exams of non-final year failure students needed to be conducted by the universities within 120 days. The failed non-final year students of first, second and subsequent years (in case of engineering, pharmacy, architecture, law and other professional subjects) were demanding holding of their exams at the earliest. However, the university was reluctant. The student complained the delay was adversely affecting their admission prospects. Over 5k applied for NU PG admissions Pro-VC Dudhe stated that 5,605 students had applied for the NU’s centralized postgraduate admissions process till Monday evening. Of them, 819 forms were accepted and others were being processed. He informed there was a likelihood of reopening classroom teaching next month and university was waiting for directives from the government. “Even for holding regular winter exams, we need instructions from the government,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-atkt-exams-of-non-final-year-students-soon/articleshow/79614250.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 8, 2020||Goa||Not a setback to govt, project will be cleared: Goa CM||PANAJI: CM Pramod Sawant said on Monday that the high court set aside the construction license to the Tamnar transmission project on a technical ground, and that the panchayat would issue a fresh construction license to it after a proper resolution. He also said that the order wasn’t a setback to the state government, and that the panchayat had hurriedly granted permissiont to the project. Asked if the panchayat may not give permission to the project due to pressure from the public and NGOs, the chief minister said that the people of Mollem support the project, and that the permission will be granted. Meanwhile, advocate general Devidas Pangam said that the panchayat issued the license without a resolution, and thus the high court set it aside. “There is no need for a gram sabha to grant permission to the project,” Pangam said. “According to the law, it cannot go to the gram sabha. The panchayat body has the power to grant construction licenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-a-setback-to-govt-project-will-be-cleared/articleshow/79615379.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Colleges reopen for final year students on cautious note||Coimbatore: A week after opening for the final year postgraduate students in Science group and research students, educational institutions here welcomed all final year students on Monday. Protocols of the University Grants Commission and the state government are followed at the Government Law College, principal K S Gopalakrishnan said. “Students were waiting for an opportunity to visit the college and meet their professors. More than 70% of the final year students attended the college on the first day,” he said. “To ensure that Covid-19 guidelines are followed on the college premises, we have formed a committee comprising of senior professors. The committee members will ensure that none other than final year students enter the campus and that all the sanitation measures are in place.”Online semester examination for the final year students started on Monday as planned, said P Thamarai, principal of the Government College of Technology. “We had conducted three mock tests in online mode to ensure that students do not face difficulties while taking the examination. So, we did not change the mode of examination,” she said. “We had asked all students to visit the college, but only two students turned up on the first day. We have instructed students to visit the college on December 28 to take the practical examination. We plan to provide accommodation for them at the hostel.”A representative of PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research said the students were asked to take a Covid-19 test and another screening before visiting the college. “Most of the final year students turned up on the first day. We have completed most of the theory sessions and are going to focus on practical sessions from now on,” he added. Most of the arts colleges in the district plan to schedule model examinations in online mode from Monday, said A Ponnusamy, principal of the Hindusthan College of Arts and Science, and president of the Principals Association of Bharathiar University. “We asked only those students, who have network issues, to visit the colleges to take up examinations at computer labs.”The Bharathiar University has directed all affiliated colleges to conduct semester examinations in online mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/colleges-reopen-for-final-year-students-on-cautious-note/articleshow/79614219.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Corporation slaps penalty on pvt firm for dumping waste||Coimbatore: The city corporation on Monday slapped a penalty of Rs 55,000 on a private company for dumping garbage at Race Course.Corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian, who inspected the Race Course area on Monday morning, noticed several sacks dumped on the road. He directed zonal assistant commissioner and zonal sanitary inspector to identify the source of garbage.The corporation officials inspected the place and found as many as 10 sacks full of garbage and paper. “We gathered information from the bills found in the sacks to find the company that had dumped the garbage. They were slapped a penalty of Rs 55,000,” a corporation official said.The commissioner directed commercial establishments not to dump waste on road and warned them of stern action.Pandian had recently conducted a meeting with Swachh Bharat ambassadors and corporation officials to improve garbage collection and disposal. He sought the cooperation of the ambassadors to create awareness and directed corporation officials to take steps to ensure waste segregation at houses to prevent people from dumping waste on roads. The commissioner also held a meeting with septic tank cleaner truck owners and drivers and instructed them not to use manual labour for cleaning tanks. He told the owners to provide safety gear to the workers handling sewage. “He told them that the civic body would seize the unregistered vehicles used for the cleaning work. No vehicle should dispose the waste on the road or along lakes,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corporation-slaps-penalty-on-pvt-firm-for-dumping-waste/articleshow/79614207.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Coimbatore||Training programme for teachers||Coimbatore: The school education department on Monday inaugurated a ten-day residential training programme for vocational teachers of 53 government schools at Akshaya College of Engineering and Technology at Kinathukadavu.The department has been selecting schools on a pilot basis to provide vocational training to students from 2018, an official said. “The school will provide any of two trades like apparel and made ups, agriculture, automotive and, beauty and wellness. In 2018 –19, we selected 67 schools in the state and trained teachers there,” he said.For the academic year 2019-20, as many as 53 schools were identified. “Now, the department is conducting training programme for 105 teachers, who were recruited on temporary basis to teach at the schools. They will undergo training in classroom management, school administration, pedagogy, content and psychology,” the official said.Chief education officer P Usha, additional district programme coordinator of Samagra Shiksha K Kannan, state coordinator for vocational courses at Samagra Shiksha Jayaprakash and other officials participated in the inaugural function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/training-programme-for-teachers/articleshow/79614236.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||One more held in SoU cheating case||VADODARA: Narmada police arrested one more person for siphoning off revenues generated by the Statue of Unity (SoU). Nimesh Pandya, who was responsible for ferrying cash and depositing in the bank, was nabbed by the cops on Monday. With Pandya’s arrest, the cops now have custody of four accused in the cheating case worth Rs 5.24 crore. “Nimesh, who works with Writers Business Services Pvt Ltd (WBSL) used to ferry the cash and deposit it in the bank on some occasions. But the cash he collected is missing and hence we have arrested him,” said a senior police official. The cops said that the accused had planned the entire racket and siphoned crores. HDFC had hired WBSL to collect cash from SoU in Kevadia and deposit it in their bank account in the city. But last month, the bank officials noticed a difference between the cash deposit slips and the amount mentioned in the bank account of SoU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/one-more-held-in-sou-cheating-case/articleshow/79612157.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||SPPU to send corrected mark sheets by December 15||PUNE: Some 50 students from Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) staged a protest on the campus on Monday alleging errors in their results for the final-year examinations held in October. The agitation was called off after the university officials met the students and assured them of some action. “We would reissue the corrected mark sheets to around 6,000 students by December 15,” Mahesh Kakade, director of department of examination and evaluation, said. Students can still write to the examination department at osd.exam@unipune.ac.in till December 9, a circular on Monday said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-to-send-corrected-mark-sheets-by-dec-15/articleshow/79614233.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Save Waqf land in Manikonda from squatters: ASWP||Hyderabad: The Association of Save Waqf Properties (ASWP) on Monday demanded Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) to take immediate action as the Waqf property attached to Dargah Hussain Shah Wali (RA) located in Manikonda Jagir village is being illegally registered by squatters. In a representation, the association requested the intervention of social welfare and minorities minister Koppula Eshwar. The association alleged that chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao had failed to safeguard the Waqf properties in the state. “The illegal and unauthorised registration of Waqf lands attached to Dargah Hussain Shah Wali, Manikonda Jagir needs immediate attention. The Dargah has a vast land attached to the extent of acres 1652-32 guntas in Manikonda Jagir village,” said Syed Ifteqar Hussaini, general secretary, ASWP. The association further said that though the Waqf Board and the Dargah successfully contested the title suit in the high court, the rival parties have approached the Supreme Court and now the matter is pending. “Land sharks are grabbing open lands in collusion with the government officials by using fake and fabricated documents. They are entering into transactions which are absolutely illegal and unlawful,’’ alleged ASWP. However, TSWB claimed that no fresh registrations were made on the shrine land. “We don’t have any information about illegal registrations. If the board finds any such thing, we will surely cancel all the registrations without any delay,’’ said TSWB chairman Mohd Saleem. But ASWB general secretary Hussaini told TOI that even after the issue was brought to the notice of TSWB, it did nothing to stop the registration process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/save-waqf-land-in-manikonda-from-squatters-aswp/articleshow/79614283.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Trichy||BDU semester examinations to start from December 14||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) will commence semester examinations from December 14 for undergraduate and postgraduate students. The university has decided to do away with third internal assessment so that the examination could be completed before Christmas. The decision was taken in a recently held meeting chaired by higher education secretary S Apoorva with vice-chancellors of state run universities. “We will be able to get 90 working days for the next semester only if we start the classes from January. It will be possible only if the current semester concludes before Christmas,” said S Srinivasaragavan, BDU controller of examination, adding that examination will be conducted in a hybrid mode where students will be allowed to appear for the examination while at home. As two internal tests have already been conducted, the university has decided to do away with the third over lack of time. Highest among the two will be taken as the internal marks. The semester examination will be conducted for 75 marks. “The third internal assessment was scheduled from December 10, but it had to be cancelled for completing the semester examination before Christmas,” he added. As per scheduled, the semester examination will get over by December 23. However, supplementary papers for old students may go up to the first week of January. December 12 has been fixed as the last date to pay the examination fee. Question paper will be sent to the students through email or they can download it through a dedicated portal created for the examination. Students will have to submit hard copy of the answer scripts to their respective colleges. This time the respective colleges have been made evaluation centres where the answer scripts will be evaluated and the principals will be the chief superintendent of the examination, unlike in the past when dedicated evaluation centres were set up for evaluation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-semester-examinations-to-start-from-december-14/articleshow/79615418.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Remains of missing Navy pilot found off Goa’s coast||PANAJI: In a telling reminder of the risks taken by naval aviators, the body of Commander Nishant Singh was found 30 nautical miles off Goa, 11 days after his MiG-29KUB crashed and he went missing. Singh, a qualified flight instructor, managed to eject from the stricken aircraft, but the final events that led to his fate are yet to be ascertained. Singh’s mortal remains were found by naval divers at a depth of 70 metres, and tissue samples have been sent to Hyderabad for DNA testing, said naval sources. “Mortal remains of a human body have been recovered in the vicinity of the wreckage site. The samples are being sent for DNA testing for confirmation of identity,” the Navy said in a statement. The remains were found during an underwater search around the crash site, which included extensive dives by saturation divers and continuous overnight search using high-definition cameras for 10 days. “All sections of the aircraft wreckage, including ejection seats, have been accounted for using side scan sonar and HD cameras. The flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder along with other important material have been recovered so far for analysis and investigation,” said a naval officer. Singh and his co-pilot were on a training sortie and had taken off from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya on November 26 when the Russian fighter jet developed a snag. The two had to ditch the aircraft in the sea, about 70km off Goa’s coast, and the trainee pilot was recovered immediately. Singh’s remains were retrieved and flown back to INS Hansa for formal identification. The Navy launched an exhaustive Search and Rescue (SAR) effort, deploying nine warships and 14 aircraft, to locate the missing pilot. Aerial searches by maritime reconnaissance aircraft and helicopter sorties accumulated 270 hours of flying to search for the pilot. Singh, who got married just six months earlier, was seen ejecting from the aircraft by the co-pilot, but could not be found when rescue helicopters reached the site. The MiG-29KUB is a trainer version of the Navy’s frontline multi-role fighter jet. The jets were inducted at INS Hansa in 2013, but since then, they have been plagued by engine reliability issues. It is the fourth MiG-29K crash since January 2018. India acquired 45 of these supersonic fighters for $2 billion from Russia to operate from INS Vikramaditya, which was inducted in November 2013 under a separate $2.33 billion deal. The fatal incident occurred just after the completion of the Malabar Exercise, where INS Vikramaditya joined the navies of the US, Australia and Japan for maritime drills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/remains-of-missing-navy-pilot-found-off-goas-coast/articleshow/79615419.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nashik||Civic body to conduct sero survey in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to conduct sero-survey to check whether herd immunity has been developed among the citizens across the city NMC will carry out antibody tests of around 10,000 residents randomly in slums, high rise buildings, major hotspots and some pockets where the infection rate was low. Around 85% of the total Covid patients in the city were asymptomatic, but many did not come on record as there were no symptoms. The antibodies would have developed among unreported asymptomatic patients “It will take around eight to nine days to conduct the survey. But we will need to rope in a private lab to conduct antibody tests,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-to-conduct-sero-survey-in-city/articleshow/79612170.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Traders support farmers’ demands but not bandh||Nagpur: The trade associations of the city and state have expressed support for demands of agitating farmers but ruled out downing their shutters during Bharat Bandh called on Tuesday. Among political parties, only Congress will appeal to people to participate in the bandh in a big way.Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said that Indian economy being agriculture based, traders, farmers and citizens are on the same platform as all the three are inter-dependent to earn their livelihood.Agrawal on behalf of business community of Maharashtra expressed solidarity with farmers and said that CAMIT stands with them to voice their demands in a peaceful manner.He appealed to the Union government to sympathetically consider the legitimate demands of farmers and take the same to a logical end as soon as possible. “The prolonged agitation of farmers will adversely affect the government’s efforts for early recovery of our economy from pandemic crisis,” he said.Agrawal assured farmers that trading community of the state is with them in their fight for justice “but due to prolonged closure of business activities during last seven months it is not possible for traders to pull down shutters now”. Hence, traders though stand with farmers on the issue however they shall not close their shops on December 8.Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), said that his organization supported the demands of farmers but not the bandh.Vikas Thakre, city president of Congress, said that party workers of all 18 blocks of the city would move around the city and appeal to people to participate in the bandh.Anil Ahirkar, city president of NCP, said that his party supported the bandh and activists would stage agitation at Sakkardara Square on Tuesday to support it.Shiv Sena activists of the city have not received any instructions from their higher ups to support the bandh.Aam Admi Party (AAP) activists of the city have decided to support the bandh following instructions from Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Spokesperson Bhushan Dhakulkar said that AAP would peacefully appeal to people to participate in the bandh.The BSP has also decided to support the bandh following instructions from party supremo Mayawati. Members of Tiger Autorickshaw Sanghatana will not ply their vehicles on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-support-farmers-demands-but-not-bandh/articleshow/79612957.cms||Ashish Roy
December 8, 2020||Goa||With 3 Covid deaths, state’s toll crosses 700||Panaji: The state’s Covid-19 death toll crossed the 700-mark on Monday as three more persons succumbed to the infection. Goa has seen 95 deaths since the beginning of November, a sharp drop from September’s 235 — an average of eight deaths a day. In November, the daily average was three, and so far this month, 13 people have died of the coronavirus. Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar, who is also in-charge of the state’s Covid hospitals, said that Goa’s mortality rate is lower than the national average, and will drop in the days to come. After a particularly difficult month in September — which saw 16,000 new infections — the directorate of health services and GMC ran a sustained campaign appealing to people to seek medical help at the earliest sign of symptoms after it was noticed in many cases, patients were rushed to hospital when their oxygen saturation was dangerously low, and their condition couldn’t be reversed. In some cases, patients were brought dead to the hospital, and some died within hours of admission. Cases also included young patients who did not have any comorbidities. Most of the state’s mortalities are people in their 60s, followed by those in their 70s and 80s. However, far younger people have also died. Between September and November, ten people in their 20s died, as well as 20 in their 30s. Even the 40-50 age group saw as many as 48 deaths. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, as well as Bandekar, has repeatedly stated that Goa has managed to contain its casualties with the combination of convalescent plasma therapy and antiviral drugs such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-3-covid-deaths-states-toll-crosses-700/articleshow/79615442.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Trichy||Burevi: Minister promises aid to those who have not insured crops||Trichy: Agriculture minister K P Anbalagan has promised that necessary measures will be taken to provide compensation to the farmers who have not insured their crop.Speaking to reporters in Tiruvarur on Monday, the minister said, “Almost all the farmers have insured their crops. However, measures will be taken to provide compensation to the farmers who lost their samba paddy due to the Cyclone Burevi, though they have not insured their crops. The agriculture and revenue department will do the needful to the farmers to get their cyclone relief,” the minister said.In Tiruvarur district, 1.29 lakh farmers have insured samba paddy crops raised in 3.96 lakh acres in the district. Standing crops raised in 2.18 lakh acres have been inundated after the rain, he said.Minister Anbalagan along with food minister R Kamaraj inspected the rain-affected areas and paddy fields in Kachanam, Palayankudi, Thandalacheri, Sairam colony, Abisheka Kattalai, Pamani, Nunakadu, Ezhilur, Maruthavanam, Mangudi, Ammalur, Pandi, Vilangadu, Jambuvanodai and Muthupettai along with district collector V Santha.State handloom and textile minister O S Manian, minister for municipal administration, rural development and implementation of special programme S P Velumani, minister for health C Vijaya Baskar along with district collector Praveen P Nair conducted a review meeting in Nagapattinam to discuss the relief work in the district on Monday.Speaking to reporters after the review meeting at the collectorate in Nagapattinam, minister S P Velumani said that out of the 3.34 lakh acres of samba paddy cultivated in the district, standing crops in 1.50 lakh acres have been inundated. Breaches occurred at 172 places in rivers, lakes and small canals. However, PWD authorities took swift action and set right the breaches and averted further inundation, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/burevi-minister-promises-aid-to-those-who-have-not-insured-crops/articleshow/79615439.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Nov death figures hint at undetected Covid fatalities in city||Nagpur: The number of deaths in city other than normal count and Covid increased almost four times compared with Covid fatalities in the city in November. An expert from medical field and activist said these excess deaths were also a result of the pandemic and some of them might be undetected Covid fatalities and others because of not taking regular treatment for other ailments because of fear of catching novel coronavirus.Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) data of cremations and burials at city’s 23 ghats, 10 kabrastans and 2 Christian cemeteries for November reveals there were 2,455 cremations, of which 94 were Covid deaths from other districts who died here during treatment. 36 of 61 Covid deceased from Nagpur rural were also cremated in city’s crematoriums. Thus, 2,325 deaths were from the city.As per data of District Civil Surgeon, official number of Covid fatalities was 114 in November. Remaining 2,211 deaths were non-Covid deaths. In November last year, the city had registered 1,775 deaths. If this number is taken as ‘normal’ for November this year, there were 436 more deaths in the city. It is almost four times the number of official Covid deaths.The pandemic started in the city in March 11 and first official Covid death was registered on April 5. Overall deaths in April, May and June this year compared with same months last year were less. Experts attributed it to drop in unnatural deaths due to full lockdown. Covid spread was also very less in these three months. There were 12 official Covid deaths in entire three months.July witnessed surge in Covid cases and deaths. Since then, more deaths are being registered than last year. Excess deaths were double the official Covid fatalities in July and then more or less same in August, September and October. For the first time, excess deaths were almost four times more than official Covid fatalities in November.Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association Dr Anup Marar told TOI, “Comparison between deaths in city during October and November months of this vis-à-vis last year is a shocker since it seems there has been an increasing trend from 266 (October) to 436 (November). However, Covid deaths are showing a reducing trend from September (1,031) to October (320) till November (114).”This means deaths have been significant among non-Covid patients. This may have happened due to non-Covid patients skipping their regular treatment. There could Covid deaths attributed to other ailments and the cause of death may have been certified without Covid testing. “Though all deaths are tested for Covid at hospitals, it would be improper to genuinely rule out Covid as a cause as symptoms are varied and not just of ILI (Influenza like illness) as earlier thought of. It would be prudent to analyse non-Covid causes of death to segregate infective, chronic diseases and accidents etc,” Dr Marar said.Activist Narayan Ahuja said, “Most of excess deaths for sure are undetected Covid fatalities. I have seen a few families in which an elder person died with symptoms and the same family had positive patient. The deceased was never tested for Covid.” He added people, especially senior citizens, resist testing despite having symptoms or being high-risk contacts of positive patient. NMC should compulsorily test all home deaths for Covid to get a clear picture,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nov-death-figures-hint-at-undetected-covid-fatalities-in-city/articleshow/79612964.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 8, 2020||Nashik||NMC to provide post-Covid facilities for recovered patients||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to provide post-Covid check-up facilities to over 1,500 Covid-19 patients, who were in a critical condition, but have recovered. A post-Covid care centre will be set up soon on the premises of the new Bytco hospital building in the city.NMC will conduct routine health check-ups and then guide patients on the precautions. The civic body will also contact these patients and call them for check-ups.This comes after the instructions by district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal for providing post-Covid facilities to the recovered patients. NMC chief Kailas Jadhav held a meeting with the health officials of the NMC on Monday and directed them to provide guidance and health check-ups .The NMC officials, “Around 1,500 patients, who were in critical condition, have recovered from NMC’s covid hospitals – Bytco and Zakir Hussain hospital. We are also introducing a helpline number and these patients can approach NMC for a health check-up.”“Some Covid patients may face some lung problems as their oxygen generation capacity is affected. Such patients are needed to take precautions for three to six months,” said NMC officials. “We will start the post-Covid facilities within the next eight days,” added the officials.Meanwhile, the district reported 372 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 250 from Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,03,560. A patient succumbed to Covid-19 in the district.. As many as 275 patients were discharged from across the district on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-provide-post-covid-facilities-for-recovered-patients/articleshow/79612173.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 8, 2020||Pune||Joint pain bogs down many after recovery from Covid infection||PUNE: Quite a few number of people are complaining of joint pain after recovering from Covid-19. Typically, these patients complain of the pain after three to four weeks of recovery. The patients, however, test negative for chikungunya or dengue antibodies. “About 10% of our post-Covid follow-up patients complained of this typical chikungunya-like joint pain in the past few days. In the case of chikungunya, the pain lingers for months. However, the pain subsides in a couple of weeks in the Covid-recovered patients,” said KEM hospital physician Rajesh Gadia. “Unlike chikungunya, where high-grade fever is another classical symptom along with joint pain, the post-Covid patients have only joint pain and no fever,” he explained. Ever since the drop in Covid cases in Pune, other viral infections are being frequently reported. More than dengue, cases of chikungunya are on the rise in Pune. Many of the symptoms of the novel coronavirus overlap with the typical symptoms of a viral infection or flu syndrome. One of these symptoms may be muscle ache or myalgias. “In a novel coronavirus infection, the pain is in the muscles rather than in joints. But we are noticing patients complaining of joint pain too. This is typically seen in chikungunya,” Gadia said. “If a person has a pre-existing arthritic joint in arm or leg, the virus may exaggerate the symptoms. The pain may be severe and limiting,” said orthopaedic surgeon Kiran Shete. He has seen patients with knee pain in quite a few post-Covid patients in Pune. The joint pain seen in post-Covid patients indicates an autoimmune attack on the joints. This is usually seen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, or in some viral illnesses. An autoimmune attack is a condition in which one’s immune system mistakenly attacks the body. Such attacks, in some cases, may damage knee joints to such an extent that a knee replacement surgery becomes the only option. Gadia said, “This (joint pain in post-Covid patients) definitely suggests autoimmune attacks. But joint damages — as seen in patients with rheumatoid arthritis — have not so far been observed among Covid-recovered patients. The pain is short-lived with no permanent damage to the joints. The clinical experience with Covid-19 and its post-recovery conditions are evolving. “It is too early in the pandemic to know all of the long-term consequences,” Gadia said. Rheumatologist Pravin Patil has seen a few cases of Covid related arthritis —viral arthritis (during the active phase of infection) as well as post-Covid inflammatory arthritis when there is no active infection in the body. Patil said, “The SARS-CoV-2 virus, in some cases, tricks or tampers with the body’s immune system in such a way that it remains in the attacking mode (autoimmune response) even after the patient has recovered and there is no active infection. This leads to what we call post-Covid inflammatory arthritis. Drugs called immunomodulators can offer relief to such patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/joint-pain-bogs-down-many-after-recovery-from-ncov-infection/articleshow/79614341.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Muslim groups, residents call for rebuilding mosques across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Muslim groups and many Old City residents called on people to help rebuild mosques and spread brotherhood in the city.  “We want to give a message to our youths to rehabilitate mosques by establishing prayers. Its time we took care of our historic structures,” said Asif Alam, a trader in Begum Bazaar. Many mosques in the Old City and across Hyderabad need attention and people said there was a need to care for them. “There are many mosques requiring attention and public representatives should take up the matter to construct all of them,” said Syed Iftekar Hussaini, member of Association of Save Waqf Properties (ASWP). “It hurts every Muslim in the city of Hyderabad. We demand that all mosques be protected by the present regime and Muslim scholars and intellectuals must be serious enough when it comes to this issue,’’ he said. A group of women said that though they would never forget Babri Masjid demolition, they will call on people to save the remaining ones. “We want the reconstruction of Babri Masjid at the earliest, and we pray to the Almighty and seek strength to protect mosques in the country,” said a woman in Saidabad. During the recent Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, opposition parties also raised the issue in Old City, saying the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and other parties should do their bit to save the religious structures in the state that needs urgent attention and upkeep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muslim-groups-residents-call-for-rebuilding-mosques/articleshow/79614347.cms||Omar bin Taher
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Consistently increasing prices of petrol, diesel worry residents||LUDHIANA: As the petrol prices continue to rise, people are starting to feel the pinch. What has worried the residents is that the rise in the fuel prices is having bearing on the cost of other essential and non essential commodities. Sushma Verma, a housewife from New Janta Nagar, said, “It’s difficult for us to run the house in a fixed budget. With the increase in the prices of fuel, prices of other items like groceries or food items too have risen. This has only added to the woes of residents who have been suffering due to lockdown during the pandemic.” Raju, an auto driver, said, “It’s been so difficult as all our regular avenues of earning has been either shut off completely or partially first because of Covid-19 and then due to protest by farmers. Now, the petrol price hike is the worst thing that can happen to our community.” “It’s the worst year for all of us, first the pandemic and now the increase in the fuel prices. Only option left for the middle class is to suffer. Being a businessman, we are facing a lot of issues in which the increase in transportation cost is just one. The cost is cutting now into our profit margins increasingly. This situation is such that many small businesses are forced to shut down,” said Vijay Kumar, a businessman from New Janta Nagar, Daba Road. Rohit Mehra, who owns a petrol pump near Bharat Nagar Chowk, said, “The prices are getting higher and although everybody will be affected, the common people who live hand to mouth will be affected the most. The prices are hiked due to rise in international rate of crude oil. Box Petrol | On December 1, the price was 84.02 on December 7 it rose to Rs 85.36 per litre Diesel | On December 1 price was 74.56 and on December 7 it rose to Rs 76.52 per litre||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/consistently-increasing-prices-of-petrol-diesel-worry-residents/articleshow/79613034.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Trichy||Reopened after 8 months, Trichy colleges see low turnout||Trichy: Most of the city colleges witnessed less than 50% turnout of students as they reopened for final year undergraduate students after a gap of eight months on Monday. While most of the colleges have finished the syllabus through online classes, students didn’t find the need to attend classes at the colleges. According to A Mekala, regional joined director of collegiate education, Trichy, many autonomous arts and science colleges are either conducting online examinations or have scheduled the examination for next week. Since the examination is conduction in virtual mode, students chose to remain at home for revision. Citing the data furnished by arts and science colleges, she said students’ strength ranged between 40% and 60% in non-autonomous arts and science colleges. Even in these colleges, online semester examination is scheduled to be conducted from December 14 and students preferred to prepare for the examination at home. Similarly, the number of students at the engineering colleges is also low on Monday. College authorities said that the decision from Anna University to start the eighth semester classes on December 14 was the reason for the low turnout. Postponing the semester examination, the Anna University had directed colleges to start the eighth semester classes for the final year students. About 10-15% of the final year students turned up on Monday, principal of a private engineering college said adding that that students were allowed inside the campus after getting consent from parents. We are expecting more students from December 14 but social distancing norms are in place and the entire students of a class cannot be made to sit in a single room, said the principal. Saying that only those students who wanted to have hands on training on a few practical experiments came to the college, D Valavan from Saranathan Engineering College (SEC) Trichy said that theory classes were completed online and laboratory classes were also covered virtually. Classes for the eighth semester will begin on December 14, and most of them will be conducted online, he said. At KAP Viswanatham Government Medical College (KAPVGMC) in Trichy, except for a few students from north India, most of the 600 students of the four batches turned up on Monday. Three students who stayed in the hospital tested positive for Covid-19. The college administration admitted them to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Trichy. Though the roommates of the students tested negative, they were also given a separate accommodation at the hostel until the final test is done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/reopened-after-8-months-trichy-colleges-see-low-turnout/articleshow/79615448.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Pune team creates ‘ears’ for Aussie without meeting him||PUNE: They were thousands of kilometres away. And curbs on travel during the pandemic meant they could not actually meet. But that didn't stop a Pune doctor and an industrial design engineer from attempting the impossible. Using a combination of specialised software, a 3D printer and good hold of human anatomy, the duo managed to create a set of artificial ears for a man in Sydney. The ears, fabricated in Pune, were shipped to the Australian city in March where two months later, a prosthetist fit them on the patient. And because the patient couldn't fly to Pune, all the team had for reference were a set of videos and photos of him. They had to carefully match the skin tone and recreate other features to make the prosthetics as lifelike as possible. "Who would've thought that sitting in Pune, under a lockdown, we would be able to help a person in Sydney," said maxillofacial prosthodontist B Srinivasan. It took him and product design consultant Prakash Khanzode about a week to create the ears - from scratch. They were assisted by engineer Hrushikesh Wadekar. "Technology has now made the location of the patient irrelevant. The Pune model promises to change the way patients who need prosthetics are treated in the future," Srinivasan said. About their patient, Srinivasan said the individual was born without ears. "He had a hearing problem that was treated by doctors there. But the lack of ears impacted self-esteem." Today, the patient can fit the prosthetics himself every day. His ENT specialist doctor in Sydney, Payal Mukherjee, is happy with the results. "It was a particularly difficult project because the patient had problems in both ears. There wasn't a normal ear to use for reconstruction," she said. Prosthetist Sophie Fleming, who supervised the fit the first time - with Srinivasan on a video call - said, "The Pune team’s path-breaking protocol with earlier cases prompted us to reach out to them." Srinivasan and team were funded by the Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC), a not-for-profit public sector enterprise set up by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). They were then assisted by Pune-based technology incubator, Venture Center. "That we did this in a year when Covid-19 has minimized access to care, both in Australia and India, speaks volumes about this technology. We aim to increase our work in digital planning and telehealth to boost access for patients worldwide," Srinivasan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-a-first-pune-team-ships-ears-to-sydney-patient/articleshow/79614385.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 8, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur Asha workers stage stir over unpaid incentives||KOLHAPUR: Over 1,500 accredited social health activists (Asha) staged a demonstration in front of the Kolhapur Zilha Parishad on Mondayto protest against unpaid incentives promised by the state government for carrying out survey as part of the ‘My Family My Responsibility’ campaign. The campaign was conducted to find suspected patients of Covid. Asha workers were asked to record the body temperature, oxygen saturation level of the citizens. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had assured additional incentives to the Asha workers. The workers demanded their dues of incentives. The Asha workers completed two rounds of the survey and the campaign helped isolate Covid patients. Netradipa Patil, the district head of Asha workers’ association said, “Due to the unpaid incentives, we refused to take part in the other survey, one recently planned was to find tuberculosis and leprosy patients. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation had also assured us incentives to carry out the survey when the staff was not ready due to the threat of infection.” During the survey, many faced physical assault by people who refused to get screened. They had to protest amid the pandemic demanding protective gears. After the protest, a delegation met rural development minister Hasan Mushrif who directed ZP CEO Aman Mittal to take back termination orders and ensure the demands of Asha workers are met at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-asha-workers-stage-stir-over-unpaid-incentives/articleshow/79612180.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors to protest ‘mixopathy’ at prime squares today||Nagpur: Protesting against the ‘mixopathy’ being promoted by the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), doctors attached to Indian Medical Association (IMA) Nagpur will hold peaceful protest at prominent squares in Nagpur including Samvidhan Square, Shankar Nagar Square, Law College Square etc.From 10am to 11am on Tuesday, doctors in groups of up to 20 each, will stand wearing white coats, and raise posters and banners against the gazette notification that allows ayurveda post graduate students to conduct 58 types of surgeries. Tuesday’s protest will be a part of series of nationwide protests called by IMA.“IMA wants the notification of CCIM to be withdrawn. Our next demand is that the Centre should immediately dissolve four committees of the national medical council which promote such mixopathy,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA.“All the colleague associations of modern medicine, speciality and super-speciality branches, government doctors, medical college teachers have supported our agitation and will take part in all the activities,” she added.“Any operative procedure is delicate and there is a thin line between life and death. The modern medical surgeon takes deep studies in anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pathology and anaesthesia. He performs hundreds of surgeries under his professors in the surgical streams before getting his PG degree,” said Dr Rajesh Sawarbandhe, honorary secretary of IMA Nagpur.“This cannot be compared with the ayurved curriculum, where the basic concepts are different. Mixing allopathic surgeries with ayurveda will hamper the growth and very existence of the ancient branch of ayurveda,” he added.In the next leg of the agitation, doctors will close all non-emergency medical services on December 11 from 6am to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-to-protest-mixopathy-at-prime-squares-today/articleshow/79612996.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy files discharge plea in illegal mining case||HYDERABAD: Telangana education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy on Monday filed a discharge petition in the CBI special court here, urging it to free her from the Obulapuram illegal mining case. The minister said she was wrongly implicated by the CBI in its illegal iron ore mining case pertaining to former Karnataka minister Gali Janardhan Reddy’s Obulapuram Mining Company (OMC). “All the files show that I had discharged my duties in a lawful manner in respect of granting mining lease to OMC in D Hirehal mandal of Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh a decade ago,” she said in her plea. She further said, “None of the two chargesheets filed by the CBI described my role as then mines minister and yet, the CBI chose to add me as an accused in its supplementary chargesheet.” The CBI relied heavily on two different statements given by an officer to show her as an accused, Sabitha contended. According to her counsel E Uma Maheswara Rao, Sabitha was initially shown as a witness in the chargesheets. “Later, the probe agency filed a memo in the court asking it to convert her as an accused. They did not add any new facts nor showed any incriminating material to this,” he said. Apart from the OMC case, Sabitha was also made an accused in three more CBI cases filed in the quid pro case where she was shown as an accused in three chargesheets pertaining to Dalmia Cements, Penna Cements and Indu Tech Zone cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/edu-minister-sabitha-files-discharge-plea-in-illegal-mining-case/articleshow/79614383.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||NTSE mock test: Students forced to sit on floors, December 8 exams postponed||LUDHIANA: With winter creeping in, the students of Class X of government secondary schools again were hassled, as they were made to sit on floors for two hours for National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) mock test on Monday. The exams scheduled for today will be postponed due to administrative reasons, sources said. A total of 3,083 students from 23 government schools appeared for the mock exam at their respective schools between 10am and 12 noon. This is the second mock test which will help the students evaluate their performance, as they still have a few days left to improve their scores. NTSE will be held on December 13. The school TOI team visited, Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Bharat Nagar Chowk, where 10 had appeared for the exams, students were sitting on the mats. When asked, Kamaljeet Kaur, principal, said, “I have instructed that the students should be made to sit on mats.” The same issue was faced at various schools in the district, including GHS Aloona Palla and Shaheed E Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls’ Senior Secondary School (GSSS) Bharat Nagar. Earlier, the issue was highlighted at GSSS Raikot, GSSS Indrapuri and GSSS Jawahar Nagar Girls. The problem became more glaring in the light of the fact that the state government insists that one of its top priorities is to provide free and quality education. Jasvir Singh, district mentor of maths, said, “Maths exams were conducted for Class VI, Punjabi for Class VIII and general English for Class XII. Exams for Class XII were held offline and for others links were shared.” Despite repeated attempts, Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ntse-mock-test-students-forced-to-sit-on-floors-dec-8-exams-postponed/articleshow/79613031.cms||Mehak Jain
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||Want to secure home loan? Read ‘death’ terms closely||VADODARA: If you are planning to take home loan along with insurance cover for it, make sure that you read the terms and conditions about ‘death’ scrupulously. For, the insurer could well reject the claim seeking repayment of the loan on some bizarre grounds of cause of death. Such a case has been reported from the city where the insurance firm, which was the sister concern of the private finance company, denied the claim on the grounds that the borrower, Naresh Jethwani, had “not died of a critical illness as per their policy’s terms and conditions”. Around five years ago, Jethwani, a 34-year-old photographer took a loan of Rs 18 lakh from the finance company to purchase his dream house on New VIP Road. Last year, he fell ill with high-grade fever and died after three days of treatment. As he died after paying the money for four years, Jethwani’s mother Nirmala approached the insurance company to pay the remaining amount of the loan. But the claim was turned down. As a result, Nirmala had to pay three EMIs from her own savings, until she ran out of money. Adding to the family’s woes, the finance company in September last year started pressurizing her to repay the remaining amount else the house would be attached. However, Nirmala received some relief last week when the consumer forum stayed the property attachment till a conclusion is reached. “To secure the loan, the company literally forced him to take an insurance cover for the loan from its sister insurance firm. Jethwani was ready to take a policy from a different company as the premium was less, but he was not allowed,” argued P V Moorjani, who represented Nirmala in the forum. Moorjani filed a case against the finance and insurance companies for turning down her claim and sought interim relief from the property attachment. On October 20, the additional Vadodara district consumer disputes redressal forum presided by IC Shah sent a show-cause notice to both companies. But on December 4, as no one appeared on behalf of the companies, the court stayed the attachment process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/want-to-secure-home-loan-read-death-terms-closely/articleshow/79612209.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 8, 2020||Nashik||Two politicians seek onion export ban withdrawal||NASHIK: The Centre’s ban on onion exports is facing opposition, with two top political leaders in Maharashtra demanding its withdrawal. Even onion farmers want the ban lifted following a crash in the average wholesale prices over the past two-three weeks. On September 14, the Centre had imposed a ban on onion exports after the average wholesale prices had shot up. Now, local MP Hemant Godse has written to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal seeking a withdrawal of the ban. Godse will also be meeting Goyal in Delhi. Nashik district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has, meanwhile, decided to take up the matter with NCP chief Sharad Pawar. The average wholesale price of old summer onions has dropped to Rs 1,400 per quintal, while the kharif onions are fetching an average rate of Rs 2,700 per quintal. The average wholesale onion prices of both summer and kharif onions were at around Rs 4,400 per quintal around a fortnight back on November 20. “Farmers are incurring losses. With an increase in the volume of new kharif onions coming into the market, the wholesale prices will continue to drop. We want the Centre to lift the export ban to balance the supply and demand,” said Bharat Dighole, president of the Maharashtra onion farmers’ association. “The shelf life of new kharif onions is less than a month. The produce starts to rot after that. Therefore, farmers can’t store the kharif onions and are forced to sell the produce at the prevailing market rates,” said Jaydatta Holkar, the director of Lasalgaon APMC. “We want the Centre to withdraw the ban and introduce minimum support price (MSP),” he added. Meanwhile, some farmers halted onion auctions at Lasalgaon APMC on Monday morning for 15 minutes demanding a withdrawal of the export ban.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-politicians-seek-onion-export-ban-withdrawal/articleshow/79612177.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 8, 2020||Goa||Bharat Bandh will not impact Goa, says CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said the ‘Bharat bandh’ call given by farmers to oppose three central agri-marketing laws would not impact Goa. He told reporters that the laws, which were passed by the Centre a few months ago, would benefit farmers and enable them to sell their commodities directly in the open market without the involvement of middlemen. “These laws will help farmers get a good price for their produce. They are farmer-friendly legislations,” he said. Opposition parties, including Congress, have lent their support to the nationwide bandh called for by thousands of farmers who are sitting on the borders of the national capital since November 26 demanding that the three agri laws be repealed. “We @incgoa extend full support to Goa Bandh called by Goa Units of All India Kisan Sabha & CITU, on 8/12/2020 in support of the Farmers of India agitating against Modi Govts attempts to handover Agriculture Sector to his Crony Capitalist Club,” Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) president Girish Chodankar tweeted. Recently, Union minister for environment forest and climate change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar had said the Modi government’s policy was to double farmers’ income by 2022. Referring to the three agri laws, he had said that except in Punjab, there was no major agitation over the matter. Javadekar, who was part of the Centre’s initiative to create awareness across the country about the new agri laws, had held a meeting with farmers at Chorao in this regard. The Union minister had also said that the government has allowed big companies to invest in agriculture and that farmers should get justice for their crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bharat-bandh-will-not-impact-goa-says-cm/articleshow/79615461.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Gali opposes framing charges in OMC case||Hyderabad: Principal special judge B R Madhusudhan Rao of CBI courts on Monday resumed the charges framing session in the same Obulapuram Mining Company case. Gali Janardhan Reddy, the prime accused in the case, urged the court not to frame charges against him. His counsel Gummakonda Srinivas Reddy told the court that Janardhan Reddy resigned to the post of director in OMC and that he has got nothing to do with the day to day affairs of the company. Though the CBI commenced its probe on OMC and another mining company, Bellary iron ore private limited company (BIOP), later the probe proceeded against OMC alone, he said. BIOP too was one of the accused, but the charge sheets speak only about OMC, he said describing the probe agency’s actions as unlawful and biased and not based on facts and files. The CBI says OMC crossed the border and mined in Karnataka and the border was not defined till today, he said. The judge posted the case to December 15. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gali-opposes-framing-charges-in-omc-case/articleshow/79614413.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||No student will be struck off rolls: Schools allay fears, extend deadline||Kolkata: Schools are unlikely to de-roster students from online classes and other facilities from Tuesday, though Calcutta High Court allowed them to do so if the parents concerned failed to pay April-November fees by November 30. Most schools on Monday extended the fee payment deadline till the end of the month, asking defaulting parents to clear the dues by then. Some schools have even pushed the deadline back to the end of the academic year in March, pointing out they parents would definitely pay up by then, even if in instalments. All the six schools run by the Archdiocese of Kolkata (Roman Catholic Church) in the city told parents they did not need to worry about any child being struck off the rolls over payment default. Many parents had explained to school authorities their inability to pay the arrears at one go. “There is no question of removing any child from online classes. We are extending the deadline till March,” said Fr Joy Cyprian D Souza, inspector of the diocesan schools run by the Archdiocese, Loyola High School, St Aloysius High School, St Mary’s School, St Anthony’s Primary and High School, St Peter’s High School and Meghamala. South Point announced it would not de-roster kids and extended the deadline to December 19. The authorities asked 250 defaulting parents to seek further waivers, instalment or another extension. “We can extend help as over 50% parents at South Point and two-third parents at M P Birla have not opted for waiver,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani. Lakshmipat Singhania Academy On Monday announced the extension of deadline till December 31. “We have no intention of removing any child. Only 10% parents are still left to pay...” said director of the school Meena Kak. Asian International School, too, extended the deadline to December 30, confirmed principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. Indus Valley World Academy decided parents could ask for extension of deadline, staggered payment of arrears or appeal higher waivers. Some, like Birla High School for Boys, Sushila Birla Girls’ High School and Shri Shikshayatan, extended their payment date to December 31. “The question of de-rostering from Tuesday does not arise,” said Brigadier V N Chaturvedi, spokesperson for the two Birla schools. The 12 CNI schools won’t remove kids from Tuesday but take a stock. La Martiniere recovered over 90% arrears, said secretary Supriyo Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-student-will-be-struck-off-rolls-schools-allay-fears-extend-deadline/articleshow/79614453.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Covid surge post Diwali but no second wave in Vid: Experts||Nagpur: Two weeks have passed since Diwali and the Covid-19 cases and deaths in Vidarbha have maintained a plateau so far. The cases and deaths have definitely increased as compared to two weeks pre-Diwali but this surge can’t be termed as second wave at all, say experts. Comparative figures also indicate the same.Vidarbha witnessed its peak of Covid-19 during two weeks between September 14 and 28. More than 46,000 cases and 1,300 deaths were reported during this phase. Recovery rate had reduced to 74%. Later, the situation gradually started coming under control. Many experts and even the administration was expecting sudden surge in cases and deaths post Diwali. Many had predicted that the crowd, rush, shopping, festivity, firecrackers and winter will together lead to increase in Covid-19 infection during Diwali, and the cases would be reported in the next two weeks.“There is no sign of second wave,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. “Second wave depends on the number of susceptible population. Rather we will have multiple peaks and troughs due to winter effect and increased mobility but not second wave,” he said adding that we have evidences of more than 50 % of population being already exposed to Covid-19, which means now less population is susceptible to the infection.Senior infectious disease specialist Dr Ashwini Tayade said that second wave is inevitable if we analyse the global statistics so far “but the magnitude of second wave depends on public behaviour”.According to Dr Tayade, the magnitude of second wave will depend on how stringently we follow the protocols from now onwards. “We can reduce it to just smaller surges as compared to primary wave. Pandemic fatigue and festive season together have definitely given rise to lack of compliance towards Covid protection protocols. It is contributing to increase in cases post Diwali,” she said. “We are aware about sero prevalence data. Keeping that in mind, if we are successful in protecting susceptible population which is still not exposed to Covid, we should be able to curtail the second wave,” said Dr Tayade.Covid impact on Vidarbha PeriodCasesDeathsCase fatality rateRecovery rateSept 14 to 28 (Peak period )46,2391,3722.74%74%November 1 to 14 (Pre-Diwali)11,5972202.72%91%November 22 to December 6 (post Diwali)16,2692962.65%93%* Less than 17k cases, 300 deaths- Due to crowds, festivity, movement during Diwali, a major surge was expected in the next 2 weeks- Some experts had predicted second wave during two weeks post Diwali - Had second wave hit Vidarbha, it would have led to at least 46,000 cases, 1,000 deaths- Less than 17,000 cases, 300 deaths reported during post Diwali incubation period- Recovery rate of 93% is highest so far while fatality rate of 2.65% is lowest so far- If people become more casual, second wave might hit in January-February||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-surge-post-diwali-but-no-second-wave-in-vid-experts/articleshow/79614431.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: PAU employees to organise rally today in support of farmers||LUDHIANA: The joint protest initiated on October 13 by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Employees’ Union (recognised) and PAU Teachers Association (PAUTA) to get their demands fulfilled from the authorities has entered 56th day on Monday. Employees gathered in large numbers for the rally organised on Monday. Baldev Singh Walia, president of PAU Employees’ Union, said, the protest will continue until the university accede to demands in writing. For now, he said they have had several meetings with university representatives who in principle have agreed to some of the demands of the employees. Kingra, president of PAUTA, said, “On Tuesday, the farmer community has called for national-level bandh in support of their cause. We will organise a massive rally outside Thapar Hall in support of them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pau-employees-to-organise-rally-today-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/79613043.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Pune||Anna Hazare to observe token fast||Pune: Social crusader Anna Hazare will observe a token fast till 5.30pm on Tuesday at Ralegan Siddhi to extend support to the Bharat Bandh, read a statement released by his personal secretary, Datta Awari. Hazare urged the protesters to stage the stir in a peaceful way. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anna-hazare-to-observe-token-fast/articleshow/79614414.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ludhiana||Schools, colleges to remain closed today in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Honouring the call made by the protesting farmers for complete bandh, district schools and colleges have decided to stay shut on December 8. S P Singh, president of Gujranwala Khalsa Educational Council (GKEC), said, “We are extending support to the agitating farmers, who are staging a protest at Delhi borders against the three farm laws passed by the Union government.” According to him, GKEC has decided to close down all its affliated institutes —Gujranwala Guru Nanak Khalsa College (GGNKC), Gujranawala College of Pharamcy, Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology(GGNIMT), Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Vocational studies(GGNIVS) and Gujranwala Guru Nanak Public School (GGNPS). He also made an appeal to the central government to resolve the issue amicably at the earliest. S K Chawla, president of Punjab Private School Organisation, who is also the principal of Shri Krishna Model High School, said, “All the schools will remain closed on December 8 in support of farmers. There will not be even online classes. No issue is so big that it cannot be resolved through Speaceful talks. The government should take timely and positive action.” Mona Singh, principal of Guru Nanak Public School Model Town, said, “Our school is also supporting this bandh. Farmers are the backbone of our country. They work day and night, be it in the scorching heat or biting cold. An Indian farmer earns his bread by the sweat of his brow. Our late Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri gave us the slogan, ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’, highlighting the fact that a farmer is as important as a soldier.” She said her school is also organising many competitions like poetry recitation, slogans, poster making and speech allowing students to voice their views on farmers. Videos and images will be uploaded on the school’s Facebook page.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/schools-colleges-to-remain-closed-today/articleshow/79613037.cms||Mehak Jain
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Death by drain||CHENNAI: A day after a doctor and her daughter, a student of architecture, died when their vehicle skid and they fell into a drain left open by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), TOI found many such death traps across the city. Sunday’s accident wouldn’t have happened had the NHAI covered the drain as per a 2018 proposal when the Chennai regional office wanted to cover all open-type storm water drains (SWDs) along the 32-km Chennai Bypass Road at `16 crore. But it was not approved by New Delhi HQ. Resubmission a year later too didn’t get the nod. “When the bypass road was laid in 2011, it was vacant land all around. As houses came up later, we realised the need for having a SWD network along service roads. Indian Roads Congress guidelines back then recommended open drains. But as accident rates are increasing, we plan to close them with slabs soon,” said a NHAI official. But, even on Monday no temporary follow-up measures were taken up by NHAI along the road. The situation was no different at other open drains including near Ambattur Industrial Estate along Chennai-Thiruvallur High Road (one died in Dec 2019), MGR Nagar Road in Chitlapakkam (One injured as car fell into SWD) and Walajabad Road (two elderly people died in November 2020). Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Chennai-based Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO, said most government agencies don’t place barricades or signboards to warn road users about ongoing civic work. Perungudi resident P Sajeevan said he had complained about an open drain on Kamarajar Nagar Sixth Cross Street several times but no action has been taken for two years. “Many children cycling to school have fallen in.” S Srinivasan, a retired Metrowater official, said accidents were common every monsoon. “Except for the new highway from Pattabiram to Vandalur, trenches on other highways are left open”. In most added areas and panchayats, open drains not only pose accident risk but are also health hazards, he said, recommending installation of grills of walls around them. The NHAI official said 70% of open drains along Chennai-Tada highway were closed and SWDs on Chengalpet-Irumbuliyur highway too were closed-type. R Rengachari, a transportation activist, said government agencies were aware that drains shouldn’t be left uncovered during monsoon, but a lot of related work remains pending. Official data suggests that Greater Chennai Corporation’s proposal to lay 1,100 km of SWD remains on paper. Times View In the past two years, 167 people died and 1,585 got injured in road accidents in Tamil Nadu due to non-adherence of safety protocols at construction sites, on roads and highways. Another 195, a national record, died due to potholes. But for a rare exception, no road engineer or contractor had been booked for criminal negligence. The state cannot escape the liability when lives are lost due to open trenches, potholed roads and snapped electric cables. As law on this issue is settled, courts will fix liability on the state, award damages and give liberty to it to collect the amount from the guilty. But for that to happen, police must first book the erring official and contractor for offences punishable under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC. The barest minimum a state could do is to erect a warning board/signal, or barricade the dangerous stretch. However, in case of tragedies, such warnings can only reduce the liability falling on the state, which could not be absolved of all liabilities. As per the Workmen’s Compensation Act, if someone disregards a safety instruction knowing fully well the consequences and brings injury upon himself, the liability on the management is little. But in case of death, even such indiscretion by the victim will not absolve the management of its culpability. Sections 304, 336, 288 of IPC and Section 198 of the new Motor Vehicle Amendment Act of 2019 allow engineers and contractors to be jailed for three years or penalised up to Rs 1 lakh. Let a beginning be made by booking erring officials, as also the contractors concerned, for the loss of innocent lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/death-by-drain/articleshow/79614452.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||MMC suspends doc’s registration for running path lab through technicians||Nagpur: In a first of its kind case, the Maharashtra medical council (MMC) has suspended the registration of a senior MD physician for two months for running an in-house pathology laboratory operated by technicians (DMLT) and not by qualified pathologists (MD in pathology). According to the Maharashtra association of practicing pathologists and microbiologists (MAPPM), this is the first case in India in which a doctor has been punished for professional misconduct. The order states that Dr Ashok Bawaskar, who owns a hospital in Khamgaon (Buldhana district), was also running a lab without qualified practitioners. He was referring patients to this lab and treating them on the basis of reports issued by non-qualified technicians.“This conduct is highly objectionable for the medical fraternity. The doctor has been negligent and indulged in gross professional misconduct,” says the order.The MMC acted on a complaint filed by Dr Gopal Soni, secretary of Buldhana district pathology association (BDPA). The case was under scrutiny since two years. Finally, the order was issued. Dr Sandeep Yadav, president of Maharashtra association of practicing pathologists and microbiologists (MAPPM) told TOI that laboratory reports can only be countersigned by a registered medical practitioner with post graduate (MD) qualification in pathology. “Running a laboratory without pathologists is an illegal and punishable offence under section 33 of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act 1961 while referring patient to illegal labs run by technicians is illegal and unethical as per the code of medical ethics regulation 2002,” said Yadav.MMC vce-president Dr Vinky Rughwani said that the doctor accepted his fault and so, the council ordered only 2 months of suspension of his registration. “Many such labs are operating across the state. We don’t want our members to promote such illegal activities. The suspension order was issued after we received an official complaint against the doctor. Henceforth, the MMC can take suo motu action in such cases,” he said.Dr Bawaskar said he will file an appeal with the national medical council (NMC). “Thousands of hospitals across the country are running in-house labs. Suspension of registration is harsh action for a long time practitioner like me. I have the right to appeal to the ethics and medical registration board as per the NMC Act,” he said.According to figures issued by MAPPM, there are 8,000 laboratories operating illegally in Maharashtra with 70% of them in urban areas. Many doctors are either running illegal laboratories in hospitals or referring patients to such laboratories for tests.CAN’T RELY ON TECHNICIANS* Doctor from Khamgaon (Buldhana) was running in-house pathology lab* Lab operated by DMLT technicians and not MDs in pathology* Doctor referring patients to laboratory run by DMLT* He was treating patients on the basis of reports by DMLT technicians* His registration has been suspended for 2 months* Doctors should stop patronizing illegal laboratories* Patients must choose lab with qualified pathologists||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mmc-suspends-docs-registration-for-running-path-lab-through-technicians/articleshow/79614464.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Leopard found dead on NH-44||Hyderabad: A leopard died when hit by a lorry on National Highway-44 at Seethagondi in Indervally range in Adilabad district on Tuesday. With information reaching forest officials that a leopard was found dead with injuries, the officials left for the spot of the accident to ascertain facts and gather details. It was reportedly surmised that it could have been hit by a vehicle, possibly a lorry while it was walking on the road. The leopard was found dead in Gudihathnoor mandal in Adilabad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-found-dead-on-nh-44/articleshow/79614424.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Cured count tops cases as testing drops, 16 dead in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded more recoveries (660) than new cases (480) on Monday, taking its total discharges above 3.29 lakh as against 3.48 lakh caseload. In tune with the trend, the PMC and rural areas also recorded higher recoveries than new infections in the last 24 hours. While the PMC limits added 202 cases, their discharges increased to 336. In the rural parts, the new cases stood at 141 as against 234 recoveries. In the PCMC limits, 137 new patients were added to the tally against 90 recoveries. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 16 more patients succumbed to the infection in the region on Monday, including nine from the PMC limits, four from the PCMC areas and three from the rural parts. The total death count climbed 8,508 on Monday, including 4,669 from the PMC limits, 1,668 from the PCMC areas and 2,171 from the rural and cantonment areas. The region on Monday conducted 6,299 tests, least since November 18. Of these, 2,243 were conducted in the rural areas, followed by the PCMC limits (2,145) and the PMC limits (1911). The region’s total testing has increased above 16.92 lakh. The PMC has so far conducted 8.42 lakh tests, followed by the PCMC (4.94 lakh) and the rural areas (3.54 lakh). Health officials said total active caseload was at 10,806 on Monday, including 5,019 active patients from the PMC areas. The patients on oxygen support in the PMC limits increased to 1,131 in the last 24 hours, while the number of critical patients has increased to 414.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-top-new-infections-as-testing-drops-16-more-dead/articleshow/79614444.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 8, 2020||Goa||In a first, Goa Medical College sends heart, liver, lungs to Mumbai, Nagpur||PANAJI: The state late on Monday night began the first case of organ harvesting at Goa Medical College (GMC) under the state organ tissue transplant organisation (Sotto). The organs — the heart, liver, lungs and two kidneys — of a 21-year-man who met with an accident on Thursday and was subsequently declared brain dead, were removed by three separate teams. “The harvesting of organs began at 1.30 am. His liver, heart and lungs were to be immediately moved out of Goa to conduct live organ transplant in donors outside the state,” said GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar. The heart will be transplanted to a recipient at a private hospital in Mumbai, whereas the liver was to be flown to Nagpur. A green corridor between GMC and the airport was setup to transport the organs out of the state. Bandekar said that they have four people on their waitlist for kidney transplants. Two of them will undergo the transplants simultaneously. The cross-matching for two potential recipients has been completed. Bandekar said they got on to the job on Saturday, when the accident victim was brain dead and his family was approached. The youth is from North India and was working in Calangute. “It is only after his family agreed that we set the process in motion, and the regional organ tissue transplant organisation (ROTTO) was intimated about it and we went on to complete other mandatory tasks,” he said. He said the first Anea test, a clinical test performed at the end of the brain death diagnosis procedure, was done on Monday morning, and the second in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-first-gmc-sends-heart-liver-lungs-to-mum-nagpur/articleshow/79615476.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Two held, woman booked on charge of roughing up traffic cops over mask rule||PUNE: Two men were arrested, and a woman was booked on the charge of roughing up a traffic constable after he intercepted them at Pushpamangal Chowk on Satara Road around 11am on Sunday for travelling in a car without properly wearing face masks. “They (car occupants) were wearing masks around their necks instead of covering their nose and mouth,” said senior inspector Arun Waykar of the Sahakarnagar police. According to the state’s prevailing Covid-19 safety norms, only a person driving alone in a car can travel without wearing a mask. In case of two or more occupants in a car, all of them must wear face masks covering nose and mouth. Times ViewCitizens should realise that they should wear masks for their own safety in the Covid times. It not just helps stop the spread of coronavirus but also effectively protects the individuals wearing it from getting infected. The authorities should take exemplary action against those not wearing masks in public places and manhandling police personnel. Besides mass awareness drives, upward revision of fine for not wearing masks can also be considered to enforce the norm.Waykar said, “We arrested Vinayak Sarjerao Pol (30) of Kirkatwadi on Sinhgad Road and his elder brother, Narendra (32) of Ambegaon Pathar, and booked the woman accompanying them for offences under sections 353 (obstructing government servant from performing his/her duty), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 188 (disobedience) of the Indian Penal Code.” He said, “Vinayak and Narendra are executives with a pharmaceutical company. We produced them before a local court, which remanded them in magisterial custody. They were sent to the Yerawada central prison on Sunday afternoon.” Constable Rahul Gosavi, posted with the Sahakarnagar traffic division, spotted the Pol brothers and the woman travelling in the car without properly wearing masks. He raised his hands and asked the car’s driver to stop. He told the car’s occupants to pay fine for not wearing masks after the vehicle stopped. “The car occupants claimed that they were wearing masks. An altercation ensued after Gosavi stood his ground and insisted on them paying the fine of Rs500 each. The car’s occupants got down, argued with Gosavi and abused him. They then pushed him hard on the floor,” said Waykar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-woman-booked-on-charge-of-roughing-up-traffic-cops-over-mask-rule/articleshow/79614489.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||14-year-old allegedly raped by 3 youths||Warangal: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three youth last month. The incident came to light on Monday after the girl’s mother Sunitha lodged a complaint with the police. According to Narsampet Rural inspector Satish Babu , the girl died on November 27 of Covid-19. Her mother, Sunitha, told the neighbours that her daughter had been running a high temperature and had her admitted to the MGM hospital in Warangal, where she breathed her last. However, doctors at the hospital suspected that she had contracted coronavirus and had died of the infection. They informed the police of the same. During the interrogation, the mother of the deceased girl told the police that she found her daughter’s mobile and noticed some chats with some youth from the village. She said that she suspected the youth may have attempted to rape her daughter. Initially the youth had taken her daughter to an RMP for treatment and later admitted her at MGM hospital, where she died. Based on the mother’s complaint, Duggondi police registered 174 IPC case. In view of the suspicious nature of the case, police are waiting for the post mortem report to move forward in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-year-old-allegedly-raped-by-3-youths/articleshow/79614469.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Seat fill-up: Some colleges score 90%, start classes||Kolkata: At a time several colleges and universities in the city struggled to fill their undergradute seats despite multiple rounds of admission, some institutes seemed to buck the trend with over 90% seats being taken there. According to the principals of those colleges, eight to 10% seats remained vacant in some subjects at the end of every admission season and this year was “not very different”. At most of those institutes, less than 10% seats were vacant when the education department last week instructed colleges to reopen admission portals again. One such example is Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration, one of the most sought-after commerce colleges in the city, which had less than 10% vacant seats when admissions closed on October 30. “Most of the vacancies were in the reserved category. We can apply for dereservation of those seats when the entire admission process is over,” said principal Debasish Banerjee. The institute is offering priority to those candidates who had applied earlier but could not make it to the final merit list. At J D Birla Institute, the only college affiliated to Jadavpur University, started online classes for its first-year students in September. There, only a little over 5% seats are yet to be taken. According to Deepali Singhee, principal of the college, they started online classes in May, much before other colleges could make arrangements. “New students seeking admission came to know that at J D Birla Institute, they would not have to worry about regular online classes. This might be a reason why we received a large number of applications,” said Singhee. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, an autonomous college under Calcutta University in Belur, too, started online classes almost six weeks ago, after more than 90% seats got filled. “Online classes are underway . Only 5% of our seats were vacant at the close of the admission in October,” said Swami Ekachittananda, principal of the college. This year, the entire UG and PG admission process had been online to ensure minimal contact during the pandemic. Despite receiving a deluge of applications, several colleges and universities, including Presidency and Jadavpur, found it difficult to fill up seats. After a meeting between education minister Partha Chatterjee and VCs, the government instructed institutes to invite fresh applications and wrap up admissions by December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/seat-fill-up-some-colleges-score-90-start-classes/articleshow/79614507.cms||Zeeshan Javed
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||No pre-arrest bail for seven accused of mindless revelery||VADODARA: A court has refused to grant legal protection against arrest to seven persons, who had recklessly fired cracker rockets on a house during Diwali. While rejecting their plea for anticipatory bail, the court of additional sessions judge A J Kanani also invoked the Constitution and reminded the accused revellers of their fundamental duties of maintaining peace and safety of citizens. ‘No law or the festival of Diwali gives the right to people to burst the crackers recklessly. It is true that people have the right to celebrate festivals by bursting crackers, but it is also their duty to maintain the peace and safety of other citizens too as rights and duties go hand in hand,” the judge observed in the order. On November 14, the seven persons had allegedly fired some 50-100 rocket crackers towards the house of Nareshkumar Mahida, a retired havaldar of the Indian Army living in Natwarnagar village of Savli, adjoining the city. When Mahida asked them not to hurl lit crackers towards his home as he had stored tobacco, they hurled abuses at him and allegedly thrashed him. They are also accused of assaulting his father and cousin and pelting stones at his house. On November 15, Mahida lodged a complaint against them with Bhadarwa police station. During their bail hearing, additional public prosecutor CG Patel argued that the seven had fired the rocket crackers when Nareshkumar and his family members were asleep. He also said that there was a stock of tobacco in the house which could have caught fire. The court upheld the argument that the act done by the accused was intentional. On November 24, the seven persons had filed bail applications claiming that they had been falsely named and that they were merely celebrating Diwali by bursting firecrackers. The accused are Ravindrasinh Vaghela, Bharatsinh Vaghela, Jitendrasinh Vaghela, Harichandra alias Hari Vadodiya, Chirag Mahida, Rajendrasinh Vaghela and Dharmendrasinh Vaghela, all residents of Savli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-pre-arrest-bail-for-seven-accused-of-mindless-revelery/articleshow/79612231.cms||Jay Pachchigar
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Way to a patron’s wallet is through a restaurant||Kolkata: A leading Bengali cuisine restaurant chain that was targeted twice by hackers in the past eight months found itself facing yet another attack on Sunday. This time, it was a wireless landline service by a private telecom operator that was hacked and calls from customers to the restaurant’s outlet in Sector V for home delivery orders were diverted elsewhere, exposing customers to fraudsters.According to a complaint lodged both at the Electronic Complex police station in Bidhannagar and the cyber cell of Kolkata Police, the owners of the restaurant that has its outlets in Ballygunge Place and Salt Lake and smaller formats in Kasba and Sector V, the phone number of the Sector V outlet was hacked.“We received alerts from two customers who were suspicious of the calls being received by a person who spoke in Hindi and being asked to deposit Rs 5 online as a booking fee. We were taken aback and called the number to find that it was indeed being answered by a fraudster,” recounted Anindya Palit, a director of the firm that owns the restaurant chain.A police officer from the cyber cell said the moment a customer accessed the link and made the payment, either from a bank account or an e-wallet, the account would be compromised and money can be siphoned off by the fraudster. There has been no complaint of any customer losing money yet. The restaurant has blocked the number for the time being and sought the telecom operator’s help to address the problem.Earlier this year, conmen had used Facebook to lure in people with lucrative offers and commit payments, leading to frauds. Police suspect local criminals have teamed up with Jharkhand-based gangs to carry out the frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/way-to-a-patrons-wallet-is-through-a-restaurant/articleshow/79613076.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 8, 2020||Pune||Pune’s positivity rate has been at 9% for 12 days now||PUNE: For the past 12 days, Pune’s Covid-19 test positivity rate has been holding at an average of 9%. The development is encouraging, said experts, who were worried about infection spikes after Diwali. In September, shortly after the Ganesh festival, the district had registered a positivity rate as high as 20%. However, 9% is still far from the comfortable level of below 5%, which — according to the WHO — a region has to reach for the pandemic to be considered “under control”. Dr Subhash Salunke, the advisor to the state on Covid-19, said authorities have now been asked to further increase testing. He said, “Currently, for the last 10 to 12 days, the positivity rate has been below 10%. The worry that cases were going to rise after Diwali has now been put to test. But this doesn't mean we can now relax. Our aim is to bring the value below 5%." Other experts said dips in the positivity rate from two major cities in Maharashtra - Mumbai last week recorded a positivity rate of 5% - indicated the state could expect some relief from the pandemic soon. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid-19 task force said the drop in positivity rate in Pune and Mumbai was "definitely a good sign". "I would say that if this trend holds for the next two to four weeks, we can officially declare the first wave over. The challenge after that would be stopping a second wave," Dr Joshi said. He added, "Had there been no Diwali, positivity rates would have dipped further. But despite festival rush, readings from the last 10 days have been stable. We have sustained a soothing plateau." Dr Joshi said testing, tracking and swift treatment still remain vital. He said the first wave in the state had its peaks mid-May, mid-June and after Ganesh festivities in September. He cautioned against mass gatherings and called on local authorities to limit attendance at events such as weddings. "Nearly 80% of cases came from these super-spreader events," he said. Dr Salunke too said if current trends hold, Pune could see sharper declines in key values by December-end. He said there have been no major policy recommendations for Pune yet. "There were discussions on increase in no-mask fines. But we haven't had a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to discuss new strategy. So we will continue to focus on testing and early detection. This will also help us bring down the Covid mortality rate to below 1%," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/for-12-days-now-pune-positivity-rate-has-been-holding-at-9/articleshow/79614505.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Panel sees red over excess Covid test bill||KOLKATA: Two hospitals have been asked to refund excessive amounts that they had charged from patients for Covid testing. Even though the amounts to be refunded are not substantial, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has been keeping tabs on private hospitals and labs for violating regulations on treatment of Covid patients. The state government has been capping the price of Covid tests from time to time. Kolkata resident Nibir Manna had knocked on the doors of the commission with the allegation that Fortis Hospital had charged him Rs 2,250 for an RT-PCR test even after the state government had capped it at Rs 1,500. The patient’s sample was tested on October 13, a day after the government had brought down the testing cost to Rs 1,500. The hospital, during the hearing, said the patient’s bill was generated before the circular on the newly capped price had reached the hospital. It has agreed to refund Rs 750 to the complainant. In another case, the health panel has asked Zenith Hospital in Belghoria to refund Rs 500, the excess amount the hospital had charged from Arnab Pal of Sodepur. Pal had gone to the hospital on November 7 for getting his swab sample tested and was reportedly charged Rs 2,000. By then, the testing cost had already been capped at Rs 1,500. During the hearing, the hospital said Rs 500 was charged as the sample had to be sent to another lab as it did not have testing facilities. The commission cautioned the hospital not to collect samples of OPD patients as it did not have lab facilities. “Sending samples of its admitted patients to another lab is okay. But how could the hospital collect swab samples from OPD patients as the hospital is not an authorised swab collection centre,” WBCERC chairman Ashim Kumar Banerjee said while asking the hospital to refund Rs 500 to the patient. Private labs were charging Rs 4,500 for an RT-PCR test till it was capped at Rs 2,250 on June 26. The cost was capped for the second time on October 12, at Rs 1,500. On Thursday, the state fixed this price at Rs 950. The health panel on Monday also asked some hospitals to refund a part of treatment fees to patients, some of who were admitted for Covid treatment. While Charnock Hospital was told to refund Rs 22,000, Medica was instructed to offer a discount of Rs 30,000 to a patient. Woodlands, Vivekananda Hospital in Durgapur and ILS Hospital were told to refund Rs 17,000, Rs 50,000 and Rs 65,000, respectively. Peerless was asked to review the bill of a patient. “Hospitals are now better streamlined when it comes to billing. As a result, the number of complaints is on the decline,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-sees-red-over-excess-cov-test-bill/articleshow/79613115.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Fake film distribution rights racket to evade GST busted||Nagpur: Tax sleuths have come across a unique case of GST evasion in which allegedly fake film distribution rights were sold through shell companies to avail input tax credit (ITC). This is part of a series of raids conducted by the Nagpur unit of directorate general of GST intelligence (DGGSTI) to catch tax dodgers from different sectors.Reducing GST liability by getting fraudulent ITC through fake purchases from shell firms has been the common modus operandi in all. Taxmen, who generally come across cases of fake purchases of physical commodities, said that for the first time purchase ficticous of film distribution rights were booked in its accounts by a company.In this case, the chain starts from a shell firm in Dhule extending to another such company — M & M Consultants, finally reaching a rights assigner which is a major corporate house actually in the business of film distribution. The last two companies are from Mumbai. It was seen that allegedly fake sales worth Rs290 crore by M & M Consultants led to generation of fake ITC worth Rs25 crore.The films, whose rights were sold merely on paper, were produced by big banners and included both old and new pictures. Dhule-based firm Star Vision, which later was found to be a non-existent entity, had sold film rights worth Rs7 crore to Mumbai’s M & M Consultants which later recorded many more transactions with large corporates. Even the second company was not found at the given address.Following searches, the rights assigonor, which is into the business of film distribution, paid up Rs25 corer against the ITC it had allegedly got through fake transactions. Sources said the liability can be higher for which investigations are under way.The DGGSTI has arrested M & M Consultant’s director Pradeep Malankar who has been remanded to judicial custody till December 18, said a press release issued by the agency.Searches revealed that the third company was engaged in licensing of movie rights by major production houses for broadcasting on national and international channels and had declared itself to be the sole rights holders of a number prominent production banners. The rights were further transferred on contract basis. In this chain, the rights were only transferred on paper.Film distribution which is taxed as a service attracts 12% GST. In some of the deals even commission was recorded on which another 18% of tax is levied.Lately, the DGGSTI had conducted a series of searches in which firms were found recording fake purchases to claim ITC. ITC is a proportionate reduction in GST liability on the basis of tax paid at the time of purchase of inputs which can be in the form of raw material or services.The drive had begun in November and so far six arrests have been made leading to deduction of fake ITC worth over Rs80 crore and recovery of Rs30 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fake-film-distribution-rights-racket-to-evade-gst-busted/articleshow/79614502.cms||Shishir Arya
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Good news for moms, infants: Zoo, Eco Park to get childcare rooms||Kolkata: Two of the city’s biggest winter crowd-pullers — Eco Park and Alipore Zoo — are set to get dedicated breastfeeding and childcare rooms this season after authorities said they have seen how young mothers struggle to feed their infants amid the crowd and dust every year.The state women’s commission had in December 2018 called for such nursing facilities at all public places, such as offices, malls, shopping centres, cinema halls, long-distance bus stands and other facilities with high footfall.“We have seen how young mothers struggle with their babies and are forced to feed them in public or behind bushes. We have identified a room near our administrative office, beside the zoo entrance, that we shall convert into a feeding room with all necessary amenities. The feeding room will be up for use this season only,” said zoo director Ashis Samanta.Hidco officials said the need for a nursing centre for infants was felt after several requests on the need for privacy to breastfeed infants in a hygienic place. Authorities said they had identified a room near gate No. 2 for conversion to such a facility after inspection. A makeshift arrangement is being set up to serve mothers with infants and toddlers till the facility is ready for use.Alipore zoo in the south and Eco Park in north compete for the crowd-puller crown every winter. Authorities expect the crowds to be thinner compared to previous years due to the pandemic. But they are likely to be large enough to make it uncomfortable for young mothers to feed their babies in public. Even Nicco Park in Salt Lake, the third-largest crowd-puller, has started allowing mothers to use their first-aid room to feed the infants in a private and sanitized environment.The demand for childcare rooms had gained momentum two years ago when a woman had protested after security staffer at a mall remarked that she should not have stepped out of her home when she asked for a breast-feeding facility. Though the mall concerned had childcare rooms on each floor, they were closed at the time for renovation. It was finally a retail store staffer who realized her plight and made available the trial room at the outlet for her to feed the baby.Over the next few months, all malls came on board the initiative to allocate space for childcare rooms. Apart from breastfeeding, the facility also comes in handy for changing diaper of babies.Young mothers have welcomed the move. “This will be of immense help. The measure will make the facility even more inclusive,” said Arpita Chaudhury, a private healthcare sector employee and resident of Salt Lake, who became a mother this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/good-news-for-moms-infants-zoo-eco-park-to-get-childcare-rooms/articleshow/79613091.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 8, 2020||Pune||PMPML to fine conductors for violation of social distancing norms||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will hold conductors responsible for any violations of social distancing norms in buses and fine them Rs100 for the first offence. “The conductor of a bus sees the number of passengers entering the bus, checks if they are wearing masks and maintaining social distance. The bus can be always stopped if it is crowded and the commuters can be told to get down,” a senior PMPML official said. “If the offence is repeated, the conductor would not be put on duty. It would mean no payment. When the PMPML resumed services from September 3, hand sanitisers were kept in many buses. Recently, it was brought to our notice that the sanitisers had vanished. It is the responsibility of the staff in the buses to check and make sure that everything is in place,” the official said. A source said buses were not being sanitised before each trip at many bus depots. Reacting to the PMPML’s plan to take action against the conductors, Rajendra Kharade, the president of the PMPML Kamgar Sangh (Intuc), said, “Why should the conductors be targeted? The PMPML should devise a proper system first. Why can’t they depute someone to monitor each bus stand? Conductors can only request people and they are doing that. It is the people who aren’t listening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-fine-conductors-for-violation-of-social-distancing-norms/articleshow/79614501.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||A bloody good wedding gift: A bus to help daughter-in-law’s mission||KOLKATA: This one marriage is secured in blood ties, quite literally. When a young couple tied the knots on Sunday, apart from other rituals, the wedding ceremony had a blood donation bus being inaugurated and 40 guests pledging to donate blood. The specialised bus had been gifted by the groom’s father to a voluntary organization with which the bride and her father are associated with. Ojas Patel of Sarat Bose Road and Shagun Sheth of Bhowanipore have been friends for about eight years. Shagun, who did her graduation from Presidency in economics, has been associated with the blood donation movement since she was 18. She was inspired by her father Dhanish Sheth, who is a founder trustee of Project Life Force (PLF), an organization that works on blood donation. During wedding talks, the bride’s father would often get calls for blood/plasma. “That was when I thought I should also contribute something to this social cause,” said Nagesh Patel, whose family deals with industrial machinery products. So the Patels got a bus specially designed at a Chandigarh factory to conduct blood donation camps. The bus arrived in Kolkata a couple of days before the wedding. Patel gifted the bus to PLF in the memory of his late parents. While Shagun is impressed by the gesture from her father-in-law, Ojas is looking forward to starting a new innings in blood donation activities. “I have been hearing about blood donation activities and PLF from Shagun. From now on, I will officially get myself involved in the cause,” said Ojas. Dhanish Sheth, the bride’s father, wanted to organize a blood donation camp during the wedding. But that had to be called off due to the pandemic. The bus has four blood donation beds, tables, waiting area, television screen and storage and preserving facilities for the collected blood before those are deposited in blood banks. “We already have a similar bus that has proved a boon during this pandemic. We will ensure to make the optimum use of this new one gifted to us,” said PLF director Ajay Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-bloody-good-wedding-gift-a-bus-to-help-daughter-in-laws-mission/articleshow/79613083.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 8, 2020||Business||Chanda Kochhar told Videocon's Dhoot to invest in hubby’s company: ED||MUMBAI: Former head of ICICI Bank Chanda Kochhar had in 2009 told Videocon group chairman V N Dhoot, whose loan applications had been pending with the bank, to invest money in her husband Deepak’s company, said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in its chargesheet filed recently. The documents attached to the chargesheet show that in Pacific Capital Service Pvt Ltd (PCSPL), one of the companies belonging to Kochhar, an office boy who served tea was shown as a director and had a stake in the company. Sharad Mhatre, the office boy, said that he was taking care of Deepak’s father and briefly worked as a driver with the family. He told the ED that he would sign documents on instructions from Deepak without knowing the content. Dhoot in his statement to the ED said that it would have been detrimental to his interests if he had not agreed to it. Videocon group invested Rs 64 crore ino NuPower Renewable Pvt Ltd (NRPL), a company controlled by Deepak. The ED alleged that Chanda misused her position in the bank to sanction a loan to Videocon group after violating rules and received kickbacks in the form of investments in her husband’s company, Nu-Power. The ED submitted the chargesheet against Kochhars and Dhoot before a special court on November 4 and annexed these statements to it. Dhoot told ED that Deepak asked him to invest in his company and insisted that he meet Chanda, who was then heading the ICICI Bank. Officials said that Chanda told Dhoot to “take care of her husband’s interest by putting money in his company”. Dhoot claimed it was because of this that he transferred Rs 64 crore of the Rs 300 crore loan disbursed to his group company by the ICICI Bank. The ICICI Bank in all had sanctioned Rs 5,393 crore loan to Videocon group companies in different tranches during the tenure of Chanda, of which the principal amount of Rs 2,812 crore turned bad. The collateral kept with the bank was not in proportion to the loan sanctioned, said the ED. The ED alleged that the loan to NuPower was not intended to be returned to Videocon, because a group company, Real Cleantech Pvt Ltd, which was created for holding the proceeds of crime, was allowed a silent death. The company was struck off in 2018, to break the link of returning the NuPower loan money to Videocon group, said ED. The Videocon group initiated the process to revive Real Cleantech after the ED started to investigate the money laundering case against it in 2019, all to show that money diverted to NuPower was a legitimate investment and returned to the Videocon group. Deepak has been controlling NuPower since its formation in 2008, through PCSPL, which was formed in 1999. Most directors of PCSPL were Deepak’s relatives or employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chanda-kochhar-told-dhoot-to-invest-in-hubbys-co-ed/articleshow/79616461.cms||Vijay V Singh
December 8, 2020||Meerut||Uttar Pradesh: Give undertaking on full transfer of midday meal grains, funds, govt school principals told||MEERUT: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked school principals to give an undertaking, saying that distribution of grains and funds for midday meals among students has been completed. The funds and grains of midday meals were given to the students for the lockdown period despite the closure of the schools. “All the school principals have been instructed to submit an undertaking detailing about the funds and grains that have been distributed so far. It should also state the reason behind the delay if distribution is still pending,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, director, Midday Meal Authority. This order was issued following the government’s decision to provide the families of more than 1.5 crore students studying in state government schools with the conversion cost and food grains for the Covid-19 induced lockdown period to lend a helping hand at a time of the pandemic. The order also said the money will be transferred only after the block education officers concerned provide the details of each student from Prerna portal to each school principal – who will further investigate the details before transferring the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/give-undertaking-on-full-transfer-of-midday-meal-grains-funds-govt-school-principals-told/articleshow/79611535.cms||Ishita Bhatia
December 8, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra wants to operate local trains as before||PUNE: The general public’s wait to board local trains in Maharashtra may get prolonged with the Central Railway still hesitant to allow access to one and all, despite the state government’s “serious considerations”. State home minister Anil Deshmukh told TOI, “We had to put the plan on hold as we had feared a major spike in Covid cases post-Diwali. The move is being seriously considered by the state government and a decision will be taken soon.” The Central Railway had rejected a similar proposal by the state government in October. A senior railway official said, “The state government cannot force or unilaterally decide that all passengers be allowed aboard local trains. They can request us and we then forward the same request to the railway board which further takes it to the ministry of railways and the ministry of home affairs (MHA). It is the MHA which gives an approval following which things roll back to us and then to the state government. Generally, requests from the state government on increasing trains and others gets approved fast without much delay. It is the state government which knows better about the current Covid situation of their state. If the request from the state government on the above comes, we will forward it to the railway board and the same will finally go to the MHA and they will decide whether an approval should be given on not which will, in turn, be intimated to the state government.” The Central Railway’s chief public relations officer (CPRO), Shivaji Sutar, told TOI that they had not received any fresh proposal from the state government. Another official with the Central Railway said they had requested a meeting with the state government. “We cannot suddenly allow everyone on the trains. The state government has to take full responsibility of ensuring social distancing,” he said. Two local trains between the city and Lonavla were started from October 12 in the Pune division, but only those with QR code passes issued by local administration are allowed aboard the trains. At present, both the Central and Western railways have been running 2,000 local trains in Mumbai and its suburbs. However, only those engaged in essential services, as notified by the state government, are allowed to access the service. In Mumbai, women were recently allowed to travel in these trains during designated time slots. People, who earlier used to take locals, now have to use their personal vehicles to reach their offices. “In trains like Deccan Queen or Pragati Express, which are operating, one needs to have a confirmed ticket. How many daily travellers will have the time to look for a confirmed ticket?,” wonders Ravindra Raut, who travels between Talegaon and Mumbai on his two-wheeler. Dilip Holkar, who travels from Khedgaon to Pune on his bike, echoed the sentiments. “It’s an endless wait even with some services having resumed. The state government must act fast,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-wants-to-operate-local-trains-as-before/articleshow/79614510.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Open drain robs teen of mom, sister||CHENNAI: Evangelin, a Class IX student, was waiting to dine with her mother and elder sister, who had gone to a supermarket. But that dinner was not to be. The mother and daughter died after falling into an open drain off the Irumbuliyur-Maduravoyal bypass around 8pm. The family had moved to the city from Puducherry 10 years ago after Evangelin and her sister, Evelyn, lost their father. On Sunday, Evangelin lost her entire family — her sister and mother Carolina. Evelyn’s classmate and best friend, Sharon Rose, recalled the moments after Evelyn had passed away. “I had been trying Evelyn’s phone after some of our teaching staff called me to inquire about her without disclosing much. Her phone was switched off. After a while, I received a call from the younger sister,” Sharon said. Evangelin told her, “Akka, Evelyn passed away. I can’t talk now.” Sharon, who is in Tuticorin, said she is gutted. Evelyn was the first person she befriended when she moved to Chennai from Tuticorin to pursue architecture at Dr MGR Educational and Research Institute. Evelyn’s mother or an autorickshaw used to pick her up from college every day. For the past two years, every day Sharon and Evelyn spent the evening after college hours talking about their dreams and gossiping until Evelyn’s ride back home arrived. “When college reopens and classes begin, it is going to be very difficult to let go of our memories,” Sharon said. Evelyn, said her classmates, was passionate about music as much as her academic pursuit and during the lockdown was even in a wavering mind, whether to pursue music full time, but decided to finish her degree first. A fan of the Korean boy band BTS, she was learning the violin when she was young and after her father’s demise, she discontinued. “She was learning to master the guitar and regularly sang in her church choir too,” said Sharon Sherini, another friend. Like several of her friends, Sherini too is worried about the fate of the younger sister. According to persons known to the family, the teenager is with her grandfather.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/open-drain-robs-teen-of-mom-sister/articleshow/79614508.cms||Srikkanth D
December 8, 2020||Trichy||Improper formation of coaches troubles Trichy-Thiruvanthapuram train passengers||Trichy: Passengers of the Trichy-Thiruvananthapuram-Trichy inter-city express are left in the lurch as the formation of the train is often changed by the railway authorities. Last-minute alterations of the coaches have made the passengers, particularly people with disabilities and senior citizens run from one coach to another, rail users said.Due to the confusion, a man with disabilities who boarded the train from Trichy junction could not find his seat until the train reached Dindigul, while a sexagenarian nun missed the Trichy-bound express at Kuzhithurai due to this confusion on Monday. This happens often, rail users alleged.Usually, SLR parcel and guard vans are attached to the engine followed by two or three unreserved coaches. Then there will be air-conditioned compartments. After that, there will be a maximum of 23 second class coaches with serial number commencing from S1 or D1. In the end, again there will be one parcel and guard van. Nowadays, all the compartments are connected with vestibules.Every second class coach has 108 seats, while it is 90 for unreserved coaches. According to railway sources, after the lockdown, railways started using unreserved coaches as reserved compartments.When booking tickets, passengers are allotted a particular compartment with specific seats. As the regular formation of coaches is being altered by the authorities in an improper order, passengers are forced to undergo the ordeal.As unreserved coaches are used as reserved compartments, the excess 18 (108-90=18) passengers are accommodated in the next or alternate coaches a few hours before the departure. Though it has been intimated by message, several passengers fail to notice it making it difficult to find their seat, users said.When contacted, a senior official from the operating department in Trichy railway division told TOI that they would look into the issue immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/improper-formation-of-coaches-troubles-trichy-thiruvanthapuram-train-passengers/articleshow/79615495.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Poor visibility due to fog claims six in Churu road accident||JAIPUR: Six persons including four women were killed in Churu when their vehicle collided with a truck coming from the opposite direction. While all six persons died on the spot, two injured are currently in a hospital and are said to be in a stable condition. The deceased were identified as Lalaram (60), Reshmi Devi (65), Kanaram (40), Kalawati Devi (30), Kamla Devi (35) and Seema Devi (50). Churu SP Paris Deshmukh told TOI, “The accident happened around 10am when the victims’ vehicle collided with a truck. The truck was coming from the opposite direction and was trying to overtake.” The accident happened in Sardarshahar’s Bhanipura in Churu district. Preliminary investigation suggests that due to fog the driver of the smaller vehicle could not see the truck and hence had no time to change lanes or apply brakes. “Although it was not early morning, there was dense fog on the highway as there are paddy fields on both the sides that caused the fog resulting in poor visibility,” added the official. The victims who belonged to Rawatsar in Hanumangarh were on their way to Dungarpur to attend a condolence meet. Following the accident, the victims were pulled out of the vehicle with the help of the locals as well as police officials. The accident also caused a traffic jam which was cleared within some time. Just two days backs, in two separate incidents, multiple vehicles had collided due to fog, though no one was injured. Accident claims two lives Jaipur: Two persons were killed in a road accident in Sriganganagar around 8:30am when the vehicle in which they were travelling collided with a milk tanker in Lalgarh. The accident occurred due to poor visibility because of fog when the vehicle was turning towards a blind curve. The deceased were identified as Ashok Kumar (42) whose son got married the night before and Rakesh Kumar (35). The groom’s vehicle was behind his father’s. There were a total of four passengers in the victims’ vehicle. Remaining two are undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poor-visibility-due-to-fog-claims-six-in-churu-road-accident/articleshow/79614513.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||MSU starts online training, jobs drive||VADODARA: The Centre for Career Counselling, Training and Placement of M S University, on Monday launched online training and placement drive for academic year 2020-21. Every year, campus placement starts in January while mega placement fair is organized once in a year. For the current academic year, the university has decided to conduct training and placement drive throughout the year to provide students training, internship and better career opportunities. “MSU is probably first in Gujarat to take up this initiative,” said vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas, adding that the initiative will not only benefit graduating students but also first year students. The first online placement was done by a city-based e-commerce company. “Career counselling, training and placement programmes will be organized and arranged on a regular basis throughout the year,” said professor Ranjan Aiyer, director of Office of the Career Advancement for Students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-starts-online-training-jobs-drive/articleshow/79612242.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Why press ‘attempt to murder charge’ for attending Tablighi meet, asks HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has observed that filing a chargesheet for “attempt to murder” against a person for attending the Tablighi Jamaat meet at New Delhi, even though that person tested negative for the novel coronavirus infection, prima facie reflects an abuse of the power of law. “The matter needs consideration,” Justice Ajay Bhanot said while directing the counsel for the applicant, Mohammd Saad of Mau district, to implead the UP DGP, Mau SSP and Mau circle officer as respondents in the case. The court also stayed criminal proceedings registered against Mohammad Saad at police station Kotwali, Mau district, under IPC Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) in the court of the Juvenile Justice Board, Mau, till further orders. The counsel for Mohammad Saad contended that the prosecution said in the chargesheet that the applicant had visited a religious congregation organised by Tablighi Jamaat in New Delhi but did not intimate the administration of his arrival after returning nor undergo voluntary quarantine. The counsel added that the applicant had tested negative and contended that even if evidence collected during investigation and in the FIR were taken at face value (though denied as incorrect), no offence was disclosed against the applicant. Times ViewCharges of attempt to murder can only be applied if there is an intent to kill. Even if the congregation is accused of being callous or reckless, it cannot be equated with attempt to murder. The HC is right.He said that the original chargesheet was drawn up under IPC Sec 270 and another IPC section, and even presented in the court, but it was then recalled and a fresh chargesheet was submitted under IPC Secs 307 and 270 as per the orders of the Mau circle officer. Justice Bhanot directed the circle officer to file a personal affidavit indicating how an “attempt to murder” charge was made out from the facts on record from material collected during the investigation, and to justify the amendment in the chargesheet directed by him. The HC also directed the additional government advocate, representing the state government, to file a “counter reply” in the matter within 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-press-attempt-to-murder-charge-for-attending-tablighi-meet-asks-hc/articleshow/79616462.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||JU, CU may follow Presi & IIT-Kgp, defer convocation||Kolkata: Convocations of the Indian Institute of Technology-Kharagpur (IIT-Kgp) and Presidency University have long been deferred. Now, Jadavpur University and even Calcutta University may follow suit. IIT-Kgp is likely to hold a convocation in person next year, when the pandemic situation improves and the students return to the campus. Like last year, Presidency University is considering distribution of digital copies of degrees that are awarded to its students on the day of convocation. JU on Sunday decided to take a call soon. “Considering the present situation, the convocation will not take place on the scheduled date of December 24. Instead, the officials were contemplating to hold a virtual convocation, but even that is unlikely now. Some of the universities in other states have held virtual convocation. But, in JU, the number of students is way more than others. Hence, it is unlikely to go virtual,” said an official. Calcutta University is likely to take a call in the upcoming Syndicate meeting about the possibilities of deferring the convocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-cu-may-follow-presi-iit-kgp-defer-convocation/articleshow/79613169.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||5 dead, several hurt in mishap at Banas river bridge||AJMER: Five persons were killed and several others injured when a truck collided with a van going towards Tonk, at Banas river bridge connecting Ajmer and Tonk districts, on Sunday night. A pall of gloom shrouded Bhilwara’s Shakergarh village on Monday morning, as the villagers attended the funerals of one of the accident victims, a 26-year-old woman, Kamelesh Devi and her four-year-old child Ankush. They were two of the five victims of the accident. Beena Khateek, a relative of the deceased said that Ankush was not to go for the wedding but threw a tantrum at the last minute and the mother was forced to take him as well. “Who knew this would be their last journey?” she said. The accident occurred around 11pm on Sunday, when a truck collided with the van going towards Tonk, in which 14 people including the driver, were returning after attending a wedding ceremony in Sanwar town. Initial help came from the villagers nearby. The accident led to a traffic jam, which the police later cleared. Harish Sankhla, SHO Jahajpur police station, who had rushed to the spot, told TOI that the driver of the truck fled away immediately after the accident. Police said that five critically injured were referred to Bhilwara, while the other four that went to private hospital were also referred to Bhilwara on Monday afternoon. There were 14 passengers in the overloaded van. All the nine injured were taken to a local hospital first, from where they were referred to MG Hospital in Bhilwara. The police have seized both the vehicles. “Four people died on the spot while the driver of the van, identified as Raju of Deoli in Tonk district, died during treatment on Monday morning. Of the five others who were injured, two are critical,” he said. The impact of the collision was so severe that the van was completely destroyed. Police suspect that it was overloaded. “The road from Sanwar to Deoli is a single-lane road with turns, and speeding must have led to such a fatal collision,” added police. The other deceased were identified as Ramlal Khateek of Piplood village in Tonk district and Ramchandra Khateek of Jhikli village of Bhilwara district. Police have registered a case against the truck driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-dead-several-hurt-in-mishap-at-banas-river-bridge/articleshow/79614519.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||All mandis to remain shut in Rajasthan to support Bharat bandh||JAIPUR: All the 247 anaj mandis and six fruits and vegetable mandis of Rajasthan will remain shut in support of Bharat Bandh call by farmers on Tuesday, said Babu Lal Gupta, chairman of Rajasthan Khaddya Padarth Vyapar Sangh. Meanwhile, various farmers’ organisations including Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, Kisaan and Mahapanchayat will march to New Delhi on Tuesday. They will also block Jaipur-Delhi highway on their way to Delhi at Bilaspur border. “There will be no business transactions in these mandis on Tuesday. It was decided during our executive body meeting,” said Gupta. Apart from this, the state Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), CPI-M, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Bar Council of Rajasthan, transporters’ associations, ration dealers’ association and several other market associations have extended their support to the bandh. Meanwhile, chief minister Ashok Gehlot has appealed for maintaining peace. “The farmers of Punjab and Haryana who have been agitating so far have received a good response all over the country as they have been raising their voice in a very peaceful and non-violent manner for the last 12 days,” said the chief minister after a meeting with police officials. Jaipur’s Muhana Mandi president, Rahul Tanvar said, “We fully support the farmers in their cause and oppose the Centre’s three black laws. Hence, we will remain shut on Tuesday. All the small vegetable mandis will also remain shut.” Pradesh Kisaan Sangharsh Samiti led by Himmat Singh also appealed to all the shopkeepers and businessmen to support the bandh. Earlier, Akhil Bharatiya Kisaan Sangharsh Coordination Committee had appealed to the business community and other sections of society to come out in support of Bharat Bandh. The three farm laws that are being opposed by the farmers of Punjab and Haryana are — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation); The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services and The Essential Commodities (Amendment). BJP-ally RLP extends support to bandh Jaipur: Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), an ally of the NDA, extended its support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the agitating farmers. Party convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal announced the decision of the party on Sunday. He said the party supporters will march to Delhi on December 12 in support of the agitating farmers after the ongoing panchayat polls. Beniwal also said he will take a decision on his party’s support to NDA-led government after December 8. He sought the intervention of the Prime Minister as there are protests all over the country regarding the agricultural bills. The farmers are dissatisfied with the bill which calls for PM’s immediate attention. He demanded the implementation of the MS Swaminathan committee report in toto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ll-mandis-to-remain-shut-in-raj-to-support-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79614534.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||Nearly 14,000 to be vaccinated in first phase||VADODARA: With Covid-19 vaccine expected to reach the city soon, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) health department is gearing up to ensure that it is administered without hiccups to health workers and doctors in the city. It has already started preparing a data base of such persons. VMC officials said that the storage of vaccines barring a couple of those that need extremely low temperatures should not be a problem. The urban health centers (UHC) of the civic body have ice-lined freezers to store vaccines. They are used widely for the universal vaccination programme. The civic body presently is focusing on ensuring that an exhaustive list of healthcare workers and professionals is prepared. These will include those from both the public and private sectors. Till last week, 13,700 persons were added to the list and the number is being updated. “Each refrigerator to store vaccines at the UHC level has a capacity of 225 litres. This is sufficient to cater to the needs as we do not expect huge stocks of vaccine to come at the same time,” said VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel. Patel pointed out that given the experience of the health system in handling vaccination programmes, there should be no problems in managing Covid-19 vaccination. “We have successfully handled the measles-rubella vaccination to around four lakh children in a short span. The vaccines stored then are also in a large quantity,” he said. The refrigerators to replace old ones in UHCs have already arrived in the city. Sources said that this was as part of the regular process of replacing obsolete ones. The process of identifying frontline workers and others who need vaccination is also underway. The lists of such persons is to be prepared by the respective department or organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nearly-14k-to-be-vaccinated-in-first-phase/articleshow/79612276.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 34-year-old TV actress succumbs to Covid||MUMBAI: TV actress Divya Bhatnagar, known for her roles in serials like ‘Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai’ and ‘Udann’, died of complications caused by Covid-19 on Monday. The 34-year-old actress, who was hospitalised nearly two weeks ago, was suffering from pneumonia, which worsened owing to coronavirus, her family had said. Her oxygen level had dropped to 71 and her mother said she was on a ventilator. Actors Devoleena Bhattacharjee and Shilpa Shirodkar shared the news of her death and posted pictures online. Bhattacharjee wrote, "I know life was too hard on you. The pain is intolerable. But I know today you must be in a better place and free from all the sorrows, pains, sadness, cheats, lies." Shirodkar, who had worked with Bhatnagar in 'Silsila Pyaar Ka' posted photos and wrote, "I'm so so so heartbroken. RIP my dearest Divya." Bhatnagar became well-known for her part as housemaid Gulabo in the long running serial 'Yeh Rishta Kya Kehlata Hai'. which she featured in from 2009 to 2011. Another series, 'Sawaare Sabke Sapne.. Preeto' saw her as a character named Jasmeet Dhillon. She crossed paths with Devoleena in the supernatural thriller 'Vish', which only lasted a few months. Bhatnagar had also acted in TV shows 'Udann' and 'Jeet Gayi Toh Piyaa Morre'. Yeh Rishta's actor Karan Mehra expressed shock on social media as well. “Woke up today to this shocking news of my colleague @divyabhatnagarofficial passing away. One of my favourite people on sets who would light up the room with her laughter and cuteness...Such is life with its hardships and uncertainties...May God rest your soul in peace." Bhatnagar's co-artiste Aalisha Panwar shared a still from a Holi scene, and wrote, "Still shocking, very hard to believe. You were one of the nicest person I knew.. such a good human being.. it was really too soon.. May your soul Rest In Peace." Bhatnagar's mother had levelled allegations against the actress's husband Gagan for having "duped and abandoned" her, but he denied the charges in a lengthy defence online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/34-yr-old-tv-actress-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/79615518.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Soon, exemption from NOC to use groundwater in 5 categories||JAIPUR: The state council of ministers at its meeting on Monday decided to give exemption from NOC for exploiting groundwater in five different categories and manufactured sand (m-sand) units industry status. The meeting also discussed preparations for vaccination against Covid-19. The use of individual household consumers in rural and urban areas, rural drinking water supply schemes, armed forces establishments, agricultural activities and micro and small industries with less than 10 cubic meters of water per day use need not require NOC for groundwater use. The state cabinet has decided to implement a three-tier system to make the system of public hearing more sensitive and effective at the lower level. Under this, the complaints of common people will be effectively resolved at the cluster, subdivision and district levels. A cabinet sub-committee will be formed to prepare a detailed framework in this regard, which will ensure its early implementation. The cabinet expressed the intention of providing minimum wages of Rs 220 per day declared by the state to MGNREGA workers on completion of the task. The state cabinet approved several amendments in the provisions of reservation for ex-service man in state services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/soon-exemption-from-noc-to-use-groundwater-in-5-categorie/articleshow/79614541.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Vadodara||VMC’s land acquisition officer booked in DA case||VADODARA: A land acquisition officer of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) was booked on Monday for owning disproportionate assets worth Rs 69.9 lakh. Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) lodged the offence against Mahesh Parnami after forensic investigation of his bank accounts and other transactions. ACB officials said that they had received a complaint stating that Parnami had purchased properties for himself and his family members using money earned from corrupt practices following which they had initiated an investigation. During the probe, ACB sleuths found out that Parnami had earned an income of Rs 90.9 lakh during his tenure in the civic body. However, during the same period he spent and made investments of Rs 1.6 crore. Between April 2009 and March 2019, an amount of Rs 30.2 lakh was deposited in his bank accounts and paid Rs 19 lakh cash for his household expenses and purchasing properties. During the same time, he also withdrew Rs 21.9 lakh from his bank account. “We have registered the case and the investigation is still on. We will know about his illegal sources of income after he is arrested,” said an ACB official. Parnami’s is the 30th case of disproportionate assets registered by ACB this year. ACB sleuths have unearthed disproportionate assets amounting to Rs 41.2 crores in all these cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmcs-land-acquisition-officer-booked-in-da-case/articleshow/79612303.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dud seeds: Farmer to get compensation||AHMEDABAD: A district consumer commission has directed a seeds trader and the producer company to pay compensation for failed harvest.  The farmer concerned established that the black sesame seeds purchased were of poor quality, which led to crop failure. The case belonged to Amreli district, where the consumer commission ordered a local trader in Savarkundla town, Patel Chemicals, and Reliance Seeds (Process) Company, to pay Rs 1.43 lakh with 6% interest, computing that the farmer bore this loss because of poor quality seeds.  The consumer court also ordered them to pay Rs 2,500 compensation to the farmer for harassment caused to him and for legal expenditure. The farmer from Kana Talav from Amreli district, Nareshbhai Shingala, complained to the commission that his family had purchased eight bags of black sesame — Manek (black gold-90) — for sowing in 13 bighas of land in July 2016. The plants grew six-foot tall, but they remain unfertilized. He was expecting 2 quintals of produce per bigha. At the end of the season, he suffered a loss of Rs 2.43 lakh because had the seeds been of good quality, he would have an output of 26 quintals. He invited experts from the agriculture department, who opined that the crop failure was due to poor quality seeds. The trader and the company opposed the complaint and the demand for compensation. The trader argued that he deals in packed bags of seeds so the liability lies with the company. After hearing the case and going through the documents, the Amreli District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission accepted that the poor quality seeds led to crop failure and ordered the trader and the company to pay for the harvest the farmer was expecting. It took into consideration the rate card of the Junagadh Agriculture University and computed Rs 5,515 per quintal produce and ordered the trader and the company to pay the amount in 45 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dud-seeds-farmer-to-get-compensation/articleshow/79614553.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||NDA govt must roll back black farm laws: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the NDA government at the Centre must shun its ‘arrogance’ and repeal the ‘black farm laws’. Gehlot’s appeal came on the eve of the farmers call for a ‘Bharat bandh’ on Tuesday. In a series of tweets, he said the farmers were spending nights on the streets in the chilly winter as the “government continued to ignore their demands”. Gehlot demanded the Prime Minister Narendra Modi should directly intervene in the matter and listen to the demands of the protesting farmers. “As more and more farmers are joining the agitation from across the country and gathering at Delhi border at great inconvenience to women and children, who are part of the agitation, too, the government must not delay paying heed to the welfare issues of the farmers,” the chief minister tweeted. “The NDA government must shun its arrogance, insensitivity, adamant attitude and roll back the black farm laws. The Congress party stands with our farmers in ensuring the mandi system, MSP must continue & farmers & farm lands are saved from big corporates,” he said. The agitating farmers had threatened to intensify their agitation and block more roads leading to the national capital if the government did not accept their demands. Targeting the central government over the hike in price of LPG gas cylinders, Gehlot said a large section of people are unable to buy cylinders. He claimed that in rural areas, cylinder bookings have gone down by 80%. “This has made the Ujjwala Yojana redundant,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nda-govt-must-roll-back-black-farm-laws-gehlot/articleshow/79614554.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Nothing bandh here, says Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani||AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: The government has bolstered security arrangements across the state in view of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by farmers for Tuesday.  The call is supported by major opposition parties. However, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Monday that everything in Gujarat will remain open as farmers of the state are not backing the agitation. But massive bandobust has been put in place in anticipation of widespread protests. “The `Bharat Bandh’ is an attempt by political parties to agitate against the central government, using the farmers as a pretext,” said Rupani. “The Congress, NCP, SP and other parties have in their election manifestos in the past promised to amend the APMC Act.” Rupani said those attempting to break the law will be dealt with severely. Gujarat DGP Ashish Bhatia said on Monday evening that cases will be registered against those who attempt to block traffic on highways and roads. Cases will also be filed against those who disseminate photographs and videos of the protests during Tuesday’s bandh with mala fide intentions. “Section 144 has been imposed across the state. Home guards, SRP, and gram rakshak dal personnel will assist local police forces,” Bhatia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nothing-bandh-here-says-rupani/articleshow/79614565.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt decides to legally register wetlands||Dehradun: In a move aimed at protecting wetlands, which are a rich source of biomass energy, the state government has decided to ‘legally register’ such lands. Officials say that the move will ensure protection of wetlands from encroachment and help the government keep a track of their land types and soil. This will be the first time in the state that wetlands will be physically inspected and put on the records on the basis of their ‘type’. Till now, all the inspections used to take place through satellite surveys and analysis, according to officials. According to the Forest Survey of India data, Uttarakhand is home to over 221 wetlands spread in around 54,000 hectares. Notably, wetlands are areas that are transitional between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by shallow water. Some of the wetlands in Uttarakhand are in dire straits and need urgent conservation. Some like the Asan Conservation Reserve on the outskirts of Dehradun though are doing well and in October became the first wetland from the state to be included in the prestigious Ramsar sites list. “In our working plans, we already know where all these wetlands exist in Uttarakhand. The new plan is just to renew things in a more tech-savvy manner. This will be good for the department, the state, and of course nature itself,” said a senior forest department official who did not wish to be named. The revenue department along with the forest department will soon kickstart the initiative under which, a ground inspection of the spot is to be done and the marshy land is to be ‘geo-tagged’. Also, the exact location and other information would be registered. It is also worth mentioning that a rapid assessment done by the World Wide Funds (WWF) in Uttarakhand in 2012-13 indicated that there are 116 wetlands within an altitude range of 300 metres to over 5,000 metres. Back then, 42 wetlands were prioritised for conservation. Since the report, the issue of conservation of flora and fauna of wetlands has been raised several times by conservationists at NGT and high court levels. In fact, NGT, too, had ordered the state government to take swift action to protect its wetlands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-decides-to-legally-register-wetlands/articleshow/79612320.cms||Shivani Azad
December 8, 2020||Kochi||Name ‘leader’ linked to racket, Congress to Kerala CM||KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The chief minister, who is in charge of the home portfolio, should name the ‘top leader’ of his party who is involved in reverse hawala through the diplomatic channel, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala urged on Monday. Stating that recent revelations have raised the stakes in cases linked to the gold smuggling, Chennithala said the CM and the government should reveal who is the person who is said to hold a constitutional post and has undertaken several foreign trips. “This is a pointer to the involvement of the political leadership of CPM,” Chennithala told reporters in Kochi. According to media reports, Swapna Suresh and P Sarith, key accused in the gold smuggling case, had, in a statement submitted before court, alleged the involvement of a high-profile politician. Referring to a report by a commission constituted by CPM, which found that V A Zakir Hussain, former secretary of Kalamassery area committee, amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income, Chennithala said this shows the decadence in the party. The Congress leader also alleged that the CM is staying away from active campaigning for the local body polls because the party felt that this could adversely impact the chances of its candidates. “Normally, a chief minister would have a prominent presence in local body polls. But here the chief minister is hiding in Cliff House,” Chennithala said. He also flayed Union minister V Muraleedharan’s statement questioning the naming of the famed annual boat race on Alappuzha’s Punnamada lake after Jawaharlal Nehru in a bid to justify the Centre’s bid to name the second campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology after RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar. “I am in agreement with Shashi Tharoor’s suggestion that the institute be named after Dr Padmanabhan Palpu,” he said. ‘CM, CMO’s role in focus’: When Swapna’s statement under Sec 164 of CrPC comes out the CM and one senior leader who holds constitutional post will have to quit, BJP state president K Surendran said in Thiruvananthapuram. He said with the new revelations it has become clear the CM and his men in the CMO were spearheading gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel. “It is hard to believe that only one person is behind these shady deals,’’ said Surendran. He, however, added he was not ready to reveal the name of the person who holds the constitutional position, whose name has been revealed by Swapna before investigating agencies. “The names will come out. I am not ready to disclose it,” Surendran said. The CM should at least show the courtesy to admit the mistakes he and his office have done in helping people involved in the gold smuggling. Each day new shocking reports of the involvement of higher authorities are emerging. However, neither the CPM nor the state government has been ready to issue a statement, he alleged. The chief minister has been evading questions on the involvement of his office in the gold smuggling case. The central leadership of the CPM is maintaining a studied silence. It is very strange how the party leadership can remain silent when the whole state is debating the involvement of the chief minister’s office in the racket, the BJP leader said. The statements given by people involved have justified the allegations raised by the BJP about the involvement of higher officials in the case. Now, the latest reports are that a person who is holding the constitutional position is also involved. People of the state have the right to know the truth. Therefore, the chief minister should speak out, Surendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/name-leader-linked-to-racket-cong/articleshow/79612313.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Tribal zones lead the way: Covid death rate below 1% in 16 districts||BHOPAL: While average Covid-19 death rate in Madhya Pradesh is 1.54% there are at least 16 districts where the average death rate is below 1%. Majority of these 16 are tribal dominated districts of Madhya Pradesh. The death rate is number of casualties reported against every 100 positive cases. The lowest death rate for Covid-19 in state as on December 7, is in tribal-dominated Dindori district. The death rate in Dindori is 0.11% where so far more than 900 people have tested positive for Covid-19 and only 1 death has been reported in the district. Similarly, in Panna district too, the death rate is 0.31%. Panna has more than 16% tribal population. The list of these sixteen districts include Balaghat, Niwari, Sidhi, Seoni, Anuppur, Mandla, Barwani, Sheopur and other districts. Sources said that tribal way of life which often involves less travel and natural confinement within the community, is also a cause behind the less spread of the disease in these areas. Apart from it, the lifestyle also bolsters the immunity of people in a natural way, thus protecting them against several infections, added sources. Apart from these districts, there are 22 districts of Madhya Pradesh where death rate is above the average death rate of 1.54 of the state. Highest death rate is 3.19% in Sagar district followed by Burhanpur district at 3.14% and another Bundelkhand district Damoh has a death rate of 2.94%. Cities like Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur are also among the 22 districts whose death rate is above the state average. The average death rate due of Covid-19 in the state capital is 1.55%, while that in Jabalpur is 1.57% and that of Indore is 1.71%. Gwalior district is the only big city which has lower than state average death rate. The death rate for Covid-19 in Gwalior is around 1.24% only compared to 1.54% state average. When contacted, chief medical and health officer, Dindori, Dr R K Mehra said, "Apart from the topography and lifestyle what has helped us in controlling the spread of disease is the fact that all the protocols were strictly followed. A total of 45,000 migrants returned to Dindori from different areas of the country. Each one was tested, they were made to stay in district headquarter before the results were available and only those who tested negative were allowed to go further to their native villages. For 15 days of every month we carry out a door-to-door survey covering the entire district, if anyone with fever or cough symptoms are found they are tested for Covid-19. Any patients who is found positive, is brought to hospital within 3 hours of generation of the report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tribal-zones-lead-the-way-covid-death-rate-below-1-in-16-dists/articleshow/79613307.cms||Amarjeet Singh
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||School fees: Rajasthan HC seeks single bench order, documents||JAIPUR: A division bench of Rajasthan high court on Monday sought the record of the single bench judgment related to the matter of school fees. The bench has also asked every party, including parents, school association and parents’ association to come up with whatever papers they have related to the fees matter and make their submissions before the high court. Court has given December 15 as next date of hearing. A single bench of Rajasthan high court had allowed the private schools to charge 70% of the school fees. Thereafter, the parents’ association had approached Rajasthan high court against this order of the single bench. The division bench while reserving its order had asked the state government to tell the court how they are going to charge the school fees. Thereafter, the government in its reply on October 28 had stated that an order was issued related to the school fees. “Under this, it has been decided to collect 70% of tuition fees from CBSE students studying in classes 9 to 12. On the other hand, tuition fees for students of these classes of Rajasthan Board have been reduced by 40%. Apart from this, while deciding about students of classes 1 to 8, the fees will be determined on the basis of course cuts. At the same time, private schools have been given instructions not to change the uniform,” additional advocate general (AAG) had informed the court. On Monday, the bench comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Kumar Sharma sought the records of the single bench order and stated that every party including parents’ association, school association and the state government should bring papers and records to make whatever submissions they want to make in the next hearing. “The court has given December 15 as next date of hearing,” said Sunil Samdariya, counsel on behalf of the parents association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-fees-hc-seeks-single-bench-order-docus/articleshow/79614557.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Name ‘leader’ linked to racket, Congress to Kerala CM||KOCHI/THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The chief minister, who is in charge of the home portfolio, should name the ‘top leader’ of his party who is involved in reverse hawala through the diplomatic channel, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala urged on Monday. Stating that recent revelations have raised the stakes in cases linked to the gold smuggling, Chennithala said the CM and the government should reveal who is the person who is said to hold a constitutional post and has undertaken several foreign trips. “This is a pointer to the involvement of the political leadership of CPM,” Chennithala told reporters in Kochi. According to media reports, Swapna Suresh and P Sarith, key accused in the gold smuggling case, had, in a statement submitted before court, alleged the involvement of a high-profile politician. Referring to a report by a commission constituted by CPM, which found that V A Zakir Hussain, former secretary of Kalamassery area committee, amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income, Chennithala said this shows the decadence in the party. The Congress leader also alleged that the CM is staying away from active campaigning for the local body polls because the party felt that this could adversely impact the chances of its candidates. “Normally, a chief minister would have a prominent presence in local body polls. But here the chief minister is hiding in Cliff House,” Chennithala said. He also flayed Union minister V Muraleedharan’s statement questioning the naming of the famed annual boat race on Alappuzha’s Punnamada lake after Jawaharlal Nehru in a bid to justify the Centre’s bid to name the second campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology after RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar. “I am in agreement with Shashi Tharoor’s suggestion that the institute be named after Dr Padmanabhan Palpu,” he said. ‘CM, CMO’s role in focus’: When Swapna’s statement under Sec 164 of CrPC comes out the CM and one senior leader who holds constitutional post will have to quit, BJP state president K Surendran said in Thiruvananthapuram. He said with the new revelations it has become clear the CM and his men in the CMO were spearheading gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel. “It is hard to believe that only one person is behind these shady deals,’’ said Surendran. He, however, added he was not ready to reveal the name of the person who holds the constitutional position, whose name has been revealed by Swapna before investigating agencies. “The names will come out. I am not ready to disclose it,” Surendran said. The CM should at least show the courtesy to admit the mistakes he and his office have done in helping people involved in the gold smuggling. Each day new shocking reports of the involvement of higher authorities are emerging. However, neither the CPM nor the state government has been ready to issue a statement, he alleged. The chief minister has been evading questions on the involvement of his office in the gold smuggling case. The central leadership of the CPM is maintaining a studied silence. It is very strange how the party leadership can remain silent when the whole state is debating the involvement of the chief minister’s office in the racket, the BJP leader said. The statements given by people involved have justified the allegations raised by the BJP about the involvement of higher officials in the case. Now, the latest reports are that a person who is holding the constitutional position is also involved. People of the state have the right to know the truth. Therefore, the chief minister should speak out, Surendran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/name-leader-linked-to-racket-cong/articleshow/79616805.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Ordering probe against M K Surappa unfair, says guv in letter to Tamil Nadu CM||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit has written a letter to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami expressing displeasure over his government setting up a committee, headed by a retired judge, to probe the alleged “financial irregularities and abuse of power” by Anna University vice chancellor M K Surappa, multiple sources told TOI. The governor had certified the good conduct of the vice-chancellor, who was appointed by him in April 2018, to run the premier institution. “In his letter to the chief minister last week, the governor said the inquiry is not correct and needs to be closed. The state government neither acknowledged nor has it replied yet,” sources said. The government had appointed Madras high court retired judge justice Kalaiyarasan on November 11 to head the probe committee after it found prima-facie all the allegations against the vice-chancellor, including the Rs 200 crore corruption charges, were serious in nature. The higher education department issued the order for a committee after the chief minister gave the go-ahead. Guv upset that state govt formed committee without his knowledge“The governor, who is also chancellor of the Universities, is upset because the state government constituted the committee without his knowledge,” said another source. Academicians say if the government could start an inquiry against the vice-chancellor based on anonymous petitions, the governor could grant sanction to prosecute the ministers based on complaints received from the public. Incidentally, Purohit has still not cleared the bills to bifurcate Anna University, despite lapse of three months of its unanimous passage in the legislative assembly. He took more than a month to give assent to 7.5% NEET quota bill and not before the state government issued an order. On a public interest litigation seeking to quash the government order on setting up the inquiry committee, the Madras high court on Friday added chancellor Banwarilal Purohit as a party in the case and adjourned it to December 9 for further hearing. The state government earlier objected to the vice chancellor seeking to get impleaded in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ordering-probe-against-surappa-unfair-says-guv-in-letter-to-tn/articleshow/79614549.cms||Julie Mariappan
December 8, 2020||Jaipur||Petrol price at an all-time high in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Petrol prices hit a record high in the state on Monday. The customer had to shell out Rs 91.09 for 1 litre of petrol, an all-time high. With this petrol becomes Rs 0.32 dearer. With an increase of Rs 0.29, diesel was sold at Rs83.06. Over the past few days, the prices of petrol and diesel have been setting new records. On December 1, petrol and diesel were sold without change in prices, since then the prices of petrol and diesel have been increasing. “It seems that the price will cross Rs100 per litre in the coming days if the trend continues. Public transport during pandemic time is full of risk. We have no other option except to use our vehicles rationally. Short distances should be covered by walking or one should buy a bicycle,” said Ashish Sharma, a videographer. Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers Association (RPDA) claimed that petrol is being sold in the market at an all-time high for the past few days. “We appeal to the state government to take immediate steps to provide relief to the people by reducing VAT and also by withdrawing road cess,” said Sunil Bagai, president RPDA. When the petrol price was Rs 90.47 per litre on December 5, buyers paid Rs 28.10 as basic price, Rs 32.98 central excise, Rs 24.50 as state VAT, Rs 1.50 as road cess and Rs 3.39 as dealers’ commission. “The road cess was implemented 12 years ago for two years but the state government has not withdrawn it, we demand that the government should act and withdraw road cess,” said Bagai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/petrol-price-at-an-all-time-high-in-state/articleshow/79614570.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao backs farmers, tells TRS cadre to make bandh success||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), which spearheaded the separate statehood movement for Telangana is now directly taking part in dharnas and rasta rokos after a gap of seven years. TRS is trying to send a strong message to the Centre on the farm bills by supporting the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various farmers’ organizations on Tuesday. After a clarion call by the TRS president and CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, TRS working president KT Rama Rao, ministers, party MLAs and leaders are taking part in the dharnas on the national highways, and have urged shops and commercial establishments to express their solidarity for the farmers’ fight by closing their shops from 10 am to 12 pm. “In Delhi, our party MPs staged dharnas and other protests on the premises of parliament and at Gandhi statue on the pending GST arrears and other issues,” a senior party functionary said. TRS is angry with the BJP, after its poor performance in the GHMC elections, especially their campaign against the party. Party chief reportedly asked TRS leaders and workers to make the bandh a big success by ensuring huge participation. The chief minister had already criticised the farm bills and even termed that the bills were passed in the parliament due to ‘goonda gardi’ by the BJP led NDA government during a meeting before Dubbak by-election. Later he also said a conclave would be convened with non-BJP parties, in the second week of December against the NDA government's anti-people policy and disinvesting public-sector undertakings. Meanwhile, social activist from Hyderabad, Khalida Parveen travelled to Delhi and addressed the farmers. Khalida on Monday said, “I have brought voice of Hyderabad to you . We are with you in this agitation.” DGP M Mahendar Reddy held a tele conference with all city commissioners and district SPs in view of the bandh. He told the senior cops to stay alert and ensure that law and order problems do not occur. Hyderabad: The Congress has demanded chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to convene a special session of the state assembly and pass a resolution that the Telangana government will not implement the three farm legislations brought by the BJP government at the Centre. “If KCR is really concerned about the welfare of the farmers, the ruling TRS should not confine its support only to the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday but also pass a resolution in the assembly against the three Acts, ” said former Congress minister Ponnala Lakshmaiah. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-backs-farmers-tells-trs-cadre-to-make-bandh-success/articleshow/79614561.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Rajkot||Cellphones, charger, tobacco found in Dhoraji sub-jail||RAJKOT: Two cellphones, one charger, several bundles of bidis and pouches of tobacco were found in Dhoraji sub-jail of Rajkot district on Sunday. Three undertrial prisoners were booked for the crime. Police said the cellphone and the charger were found from the barrack number one, while other barred items were recovered from barrack numbers — two, four, five, six and seven. Another cellphone was found from the barrack number seven. The seizure was effected during a surprise checking carried out by a team of Dhoraji police station officials. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cellphones-charger-tobacco-found-in-dhoraji-sub-jail/articleshow/79611627.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kochi||Customs submits evidence material in sealed cover at Ernakulam||KOCHI: Commissionerate of Customs Preventive probing the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, on Monday, submitted evidence material other than statements in a sealed cover at the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court, Ernakulam. Sources hinted that data extracted from the phones of M Sivasankar, the former principal secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, was among the contents of the cover. Earlier, after going through such a sealed cover which had statements of accused, court had observed that ‘big sharks who manipulated their solemn duties were involved in currency smuggling case in which the accused in the gold smuggling case are also involved’. The cover was submitted ahead of considering bail application filed by Sivasankar. However, when the bail application came up for hearing, the counsel for Sivasankar urged the court to postpone it to Friday. Later on, when the court pointed out that bail petitions cannot be postponed indefinitely, the counsel withdrew the application. Sivasankar was produced in court on expiry of customs custody period and court remanded him back to judicial custody. However, he would again be produced before the court on Tuesday since his 14-day judicial custody period ends on Tuesday. Meanwhile, recording of confession statement of prime accused Swapna Suresh and Sarith P S in the currency smuggling case began on Monday. The statement recording is likely to continue on Tuesday as well. They had earlier given confession statements under Section 164 CrPC to the judicial first class magistrate in the gold smuggling case as well. The duo was in customs custody and their custody period would expire on Tuesday at 5pm. The court in an order on December 1 had said the investigating officer had produced very crucial three statements of Swapna and Sarith in a sealed cover. These statements were taken on November 27 and 28, while they were in customs custody in connection with the case relating to smuggling of foreign currency by an Egyptian national, who was an employee at the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram with the active assistance of Swapna and Sarith. Meanwhile, sources said the CRPF security provided for officials and staff of customs have been extended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-submits-evidence-material-in-sealed-cover/articleshow/79612327.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Won’t nix FIRs against anchor for Sufi saint remarks: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday refused to quash FIRs lodged against a TV anchor for his alleged defamatory remarks against Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti during a show on June 15, saying any attempt at dissemination of discrimination on the basis of race, religion, caste, creed or region must be condemned. The court granted Amish Devgan protection from arrest till conclusion of the probe if he cooperates. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna said, “We must act with the objective for promoting social harmony and tolerance by proscribing hateful and inappropriate behaviour... It is not penal threat alone which can help us achieve and ensure equality between groups... As stated earlier, in a polity committed to pluralism, hate speech cannot conceivably contribute in any legitimate way to democracy and, in fact, repudiates the right to equality.” Referring to the relevant portions of the transcript of the TV debate anchored by Devgan, SC said it was “apparent that the petitioner (the journalist) was an equal coparticipant, rather than a mere host”. Emphasising the importance of freedom of speech and expression, the bench, however, referred to various verdicts of SC and said, “The argument that in a democratic society, there is no scope for agitational approach and the law, if bad, can be modified by democratic process alone was rejected on the ground that if the same is accepted it would destroy the right to freedom of speech...” Complaints alleged that Devgan had insulted the saint belonging to the Muslim community and thereby hurt religious sentiments and incited hatred against the community. The court also ordered transfer of all seven cases registered in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh to Ajmer where the first complaint was filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-nix-firs-against-anchor-for-sufi-saint-remarks-supreme-court/articleshow/79616469.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Five kids, 2 doctors among 272 new cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: With 272 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the tally of positive cases in Bhopal has reached 33136. Among those who tested positive are a five kids under 11 years of age. Two of them are aged below 5 years. Apart from kids, 13 elderly aged above 70 years are also in the list of 272 who were tested positive. Of these, three are aged above 80 years. Two city doctors were also among the 272 who tested positive. The areas from where these positive patients were found includes, Char Imli locality where two new case were found while in Arera Colony, 3 new cases were found on Monday. In Kolar and Kolar Road, 24 new cases were found, while two new cases were found in Hoshangabad Road localities and 4 new cases were found in Piplani. Likewise, 7 new cases were found in Saket Nagar and 6 new cases were also found in Ashoka Garden. Among other localities, 9 new cases were found in Bairagarh. So far, a total of 531 deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported in the state capital. From December 1 to December 7, total of 13 deaths have been reported in the city. As on December 7, there were a total of around 2894 active cases in the city. Of the total 33136 reported positive so far, a total of 28562 have recovered from the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5-kids-2-docs-among-272-new-cases-in-city/articleshow/79613375.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs to push for fulfilment of GHMC poll promises||HYDERABAD: The newly-elected corporators, who emerged victorious in the GHMC elections, face an uphill task of fulfilling their promises. As the 4,300 residential welfare associations (RWAs) are gearing up to breathe down the necks of the elected candidates, the new term is unlikely to be a cakewalk for the latter.  The RWAs, which played a crucial role in garnering support for the candidates of the major political parties are now keen on getting those poll promises realised.  In fact, some RWAs even went to the extent of entering into agreements with the candidates in the presence of a notary. “We asked all the 4,300 RWAs to track the issues mentioned in the ‘people’s manifestos’ and ensure those are fulfilled by the new corporators,” United Federation of Residential Welfare Associations (UFERWAS) general secretary, BT Srinivasan told TOI. “Once these corporators assume office our RWAs will be after them to fulfill the promises they made to us. We will keep a close watch till all the promised works are completed,” Srinivasan added. The Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad (FNECS), which organised interactive sessions with the candidates, is also keen to push for the fulfilment of promises. The FNECS wishlist includes reopening of cantonment roads, improvement of junctions at Yapral, Kandiguda, Ammuguda and Hanuman Temple, inclusion of the area under the Strategic Nala Development Programme to resolve water logging problem in SS Enclave and other colonies around Kapra Lake, and the rejuvenation of the RK Puram lake. “As representatives of the RWAs, we have taken written commitments from the candidates,” FNECS secretary, CS Chandrasekhar said. Members of an RWA in Uttamnagar, Malkajgiri, had already met TRS corporator and took an assurance to resolve major issues such as laying of a 100-feet road, revamping of the existing stormwater system, and improvement of the drainage system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-to-push-for-fulfilment-of-poll-promises/articleshow/79614575.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||FASTag in all toll plaza lanes from January 1||HYDERABAD: Come January 1, all the lanes at toll plazas on the highways will be 100% FASTag lanes. Central government has made it mandatory that all vehicles should have FASTag from January 1.  To ensure easy availability of FASTag adequate number of points of sale (PoS) would be set up at every toll plaza, fuel stations on national highways and regional offices of National Highways Authorities of India. Even banks have been asked to set up PoS at toll plazas. These PoS would also facilitate recharging of FASTag on the spot. Marshals will be deployed to ensure that vehicles without FASTag will not be allowed to enter in to any of the lanes at toll plazas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fastag-in-all-toll-plaza-lanes-from-jan-1/articleshow/79614587.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kochi||Kerala will challenge new farm laws in SC: Minister for agriculture||THRISSUR: The farmers, who are agitating against contentious agri reforms in Delhi, received an impetus on Monday after the LDF government in Kerala openly stated that it will not implement the controversial farm laws passed by the Centre and that the government would approach the Supreme Court challenging the same. Minister for agriculture V S Sunilkumar said that the government will fully support the farmers who are agitating in Delhi and that Kerala has taken steps to file a petition challenging new farm laws in the apex court within a week. The advocate general of the state has been instructed to proceed in this regard. The minister pointed out that agriculture is an item in the concurrent list of the Constitution, and by passing these laws, Centre has blatantly encroached on the powers of the states given under the Constitution. “There was no consultation with states, before bringing in these legislations. When the much-detested APMC Act was introduced earlier, there was at least a provision that states can either accept or reject it. That’s why states like Kerala could refrain from implementing it. But, the new farm laws have been framed in such a way that all states will have to implement them,” he said. The government will also explore the possibility of introducing alternative laws by invoking Article 304 (3) of the Constitution. This Article helps states make separate laws, if any central law encroached on their powers, Sunilkumar said. However, there are some constraints for states to explore the potential of the Article as they will have to get the President’s assent for new laws, he added. The minister said Kerala government will fight against new farm laws and cooperation of all like-minded states will be mobilised too. States like Punjab and Rajasthan have already raised their voice against the laws, he said. Sunilkumar said the new laws are detrimental not just to farmers, but all Indians. The law essentially caters to the interests of corporates, who will now decide the availability and price of food in the country. This will eventually decimate food security and how can we have national security without food security, he asked. The minister lashed out at the Centre for trying to encroach on the powers of the state in areas like education and healthcare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-will-challenge-new-farm-laws-in-sc-minister/articleshow/79612342.cms||T Ramavarman
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman murdered in Pahadishareef||Hyderabad: An unknown woman was found murdered at Jalpally lake in Pahadishareef on Monday. Police are suspecting it to be a case of rape and murder. They are waiting for the postmortem report to confirm if there was a sexual assault. Police officials said that the victim died after she was hit on her face by a boulder. The accused ensured her face was beyond recognition by repeatedly assaulting her with the boulder. The deceased, who was wearing a burqa, could be around 30 years of age. Though the incident occurred on Sunday night, it came to light only on Monday morning when the locals noticed the body in a pool of blood. Dog squad and clues team were roped in. A case was registered under 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Though the incident occurred on Sunday night, it came to light only on Monday morning when the locals noticed the body in a pool of blood||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-murdered-in-pahadishareef/articleshow/79614589.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Star who promised mission impossible in Tamil Nadu politics returns to being reel life hero||CHENNAI: Having announced his decision to launch a political party in January, Rajinikanth must be fine-tuning his party’s programmes and policies, right? Wrong. The actor has chosen to do something more familiar: face the arc lights. Sun Pictures’s big-budget production “Annaatthe” is his 168th film and Rajnikanth will fly by private jet to Hyderabad’s Ramoji Film City for the shooting from December 14. But before that, he drove down to Bengaluru from Chennai to seek his elder brother Satyanarayana’s blessings for his real and reel life ventures. Annaatthe’s filming schedule is about 45 days, but it will be released after the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu as post-production work will take time. Rajinikanth is to launch his new political party in January and a formal announcement will be made on December 31. Kalanidhi Maran’s Sun Pictures is using the experience that Hyderabad Sunrisers, the IPL team the company owns, gained during the tournament in Dubai recently to create a bio bubble to keep stars and crew safe from the pandemic. “We are booking exclusive floors in a hotel, located within Ramoji Film City for the entire film crew, which includes actors Meena, Khushbu and Keerthy Suresh in leading roles,” Sembian Sivakumar, COO, Sun Pictures told TOI. “An exclusive doctor will be on standby for the superstar,” he said. “Fortunately, we shot the portions involving large crowds prior to the lockdown, ” said Sivakumar. Announcing his political foray on Thursday, Rajinikanth said about 40% work was pending for the film and he would complete it before turning his attention to politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/star-who-promised-mission-impossible-in-tn-politics-returns-to-being-reel-life-hero/articleshow/79614585.cms||D Govardan
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopalis stand in solidarity with farmers protesting in New Delhi||BHOPAL: Farmers and organisations in the state capital continue to stand in solidarity with the farmers in Delhi. Fasts and prayers were held in parts of Madhya Pradesh on Monday, with a call to the Union government to repeal new agriculture laws. The state unit of Bhartiya Kisan Union also continued its dharna at Neelam Park on Monday. After the farmers associated with BKU were denied permission to hold dharna at MP Nagar, they shifted to Neelam Park. President of the organisation leading the dharna said, “We want the centre to withdraw new laws which have been termed as anti-farmer.” He said that supporters of the organisation will go for the bandh called on December 8 . “We request the people to observe the bandh in support of the annadata of India. Shutting down the shops for a few hours will not make any difference for the cause,” he said. At Gandhi Bhavan, activist of Youth4Farmers held a day long fast for the farmers. The agitation was supported by Ekta Parishad, an organisation of farmers and labourers. Gaurav Jaiswal of Kisan Satyagrah said, “Youth in small groups under the banner of #Youth4Farmers and even in their individual capacity are holding agitations and fasts across the state on Monday. This is how we have extended our support for the cause.” Meanwhile, sessions of kabir bhajans, patriotic songs and prayers were also held for the farmers. Mahendra Singh Gurjar of Kamgar Morcha in Mandsaur appealed to the people to observe bandh on Tuesday. Agriculture minister Kamal Patel appealed to the farmers to give up their agitation and said that the new laws would help make farmers self-reliant. “ The new law is not against the farmers, it is for them to help them change their lives,” said the minister at a press conference on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopalis-stand-in-solidarity-with-farmers-protesting-in-new-delhi/articleshow/79613415.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana medico does a Munnabhai in exam, caught with gadgets||HYDERABAD: In a plot straight out of the Bollywood flick Munnabhai MBBS, a post-graduate medical student in Telangana was caught using a digital receiver and transmitter fitted in a waiting car to cheat. The student from Prathima Institute of Medical Sciences was part of a group of nine taking MD (social and preventive medicine/community medicine) at the Kakatiya medical college centre in Warangal. On December 2, the last day of the exams, where only five students appeared, authorities noticed that an Innova was strategically placed outside the examination centre. “When security personnel informed me, I asked them to seize and search the vehicle. The driver of the vehicle couldn't give proper answers. After searches, our securitymen found hi-tech equipment like transmitters, receivers and other digital apparatus,” principal Dr Sandhya Sunkaraneni told TOI. “We immediately searched all the students taking the exams in the hall. One of them was found in possession of a receiver and other digital equipment,” she added. While authorities hushed up the news, a video of the car and pictures of the equipment surfaced on social media on Monday. NTR University of Health Science officials, who were conducting the exams, were immediately informed and the student was sent out of the examination hall, she added. “NTRUHS told us not to file a police complaint as it is an academic matter. The university also suggested not to reveal the name of the student,” she added. While it’s an offence under the prevention of malpractice and unfair means, KMC didn't file a complaint with Mattewada police of Warangal. “If the students turned violent or resisted, we would have filed the complaint. NTRUHS have to take the call,” she said. The vehicle is registered in the name of an industrialist.. But the local police said they would register an FIR, if KMC files a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-medico-does-a-munnabhai-in-exam-caught-with-gadgets/articleshow/79616023.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 8, 2020||Vijayawada||H-1B fraud: AP couple on the run after duping Telugu students in US||VIJAYAWADA: A lookout notice has been issued against a Telugu couple in the United States for allegedly duping several students under the guise of getting them H-1B visas. The alleged scam came to light on Monday after a complaint was lodged with the department of Homeland Security in Atlanta though the fraud is believed to have been committed over the course of several months. As per the complaint filed by some of the victims, Sunil and Praneetha posed as visa consultants and promised students studying in different universities and colleges of providing F1 visas. They also collected $25,000 from each student. Unconfirmed reports said the couple cheated students of Rs 10 crore.. But officials said they have so far accounted for Rs 1 crore as the amount was transferred to the account of Sunil’s father Muthyala Satyanarayana in West Godavari district. Sunil and Praneetha are absconding and are believed to have left the US and hiding somewhere in Europe. Sunil’s father Satyanarayana too is absconding as local police could not find him when they went to his house recently. Apart from homeland security, the Interpol too has issued a lookout notice against the couple. This isn’t the first time that a visa consultant from India has been booked for visa fraud. Most recently in August, Ashish Sawhney, director of Value Consulting from Pune, was arrested for $21 million H-1B fraud in Eastern District, Virgina. The homeland security has also issued advisories to all local universities and colleges about such scams and warned them against unauthorised work permit visa consultants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/h-1b-fraud-ap-couple-on-the-run-after-duping-telugu-students-in-us/articleshow/79616026.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||DGP asks district police chiefs to make list of top-10/top-5 most wanted criminals||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s new director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Monday directed the senior superintendents of police (SSPs) and superintendents of police (SPs) of all districts to identify and make a list of top-10 and top-5 most wanted criminals of their respective jurisdictions. While speaking to the range and district-level police officials via video conferencing, Kumar said after identification, action must be initiated and efforts should be made to arrest them. “I have told the SSPs and SPs to focus on history sheeters. In case of criminals carrying the reward of Rs 5,000 or more on their head, the Special Operation Group at the district-level and the Special Task Force at the state-level will be responsible for their arrest,” said Ashok Kumar. Kumar also gave necessary directions to the cops in view of the Bharat Bandh call given in support of the ongoing farmers protest. Police officials across the state were told to make sure that markets are not closed forcibly by the protesters. “Strict action would be taken against anyone trying to take law into their hands. The district police officials have been told to conduct meetings with people in their respective jurisdictional areas to ensure peaceful bandh on December 8,” said DGP Ashok Kumar. According to the police sources, cops would be keeping a close tab on social media and anyone trying to spread rumours or attempting to disturb the law and order situation will face strict action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dgp-asks-district-police-chiefs-to-make-list-of-top-10/top-5-most-wanted-criminals/articleshow/79612354.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Vendor killed in Hyderabad for refusing to lend money||HYDERABAD: A 48-year-old vegetable vendor was killed by a man at SBH colony in LB Nagar after he allegedly refused to lend him money, on Sunday night. Venkanna, a resident of Kakatiya colony, used to intimidate Babu to lend him money. On Sunday night, Venkanna, along with his wife, demanded money from Babu. “When Babu said that he does not have money, Venkanna and his family members resorted to vandalism and damaged Babu’s vegetable cart. They then beat up the victim. Babu was shifted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” police said. The accused have been taken into police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vendor-killed-for-refusing-to-lend-money/articleshow/79614592.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Centre’s move draws flak from left & right||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said Congress will fight against the Centre’s decision to name the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) in the state capital after RSS leader M S Golwalkar. Mullappally said the intention behind naming the campus after Golwalkar, who stood for a religious state and declared that freedom is possible only in a Hindu nation, is to destroy religious harmony. It is a shame that name of such a person is given to country’s prestigious institute like RGCB, he said. He asked what was Golwalkar’s contribution to the field of science and technology. “At the same time, leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi were leaders who led the country to development,” he said slamming Union minister V Muraleedharan for dragging Nehru’s name into such a controversy. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, on his Facebook post, wrote: There are two reasons for opposing the Centre’s decision to name the research facility after Golwalkar. The state government had handed over the institute to the Centre to elevate it to a world-class institute... If PSUs are handed over, the Centre would privatize them. If such institutes are handed over, the Centre would show disdain by giving such names...” The second reason he cited that Golwalkar was a person who had openly insulted the people of the state, women in particular. “Golwalkar, during a speech on December 17, 1960, at Gujarat university, had said there was a rule in the state that the first offspring of a married woman of any class in the state should be fathered by a Namboothiri to create a cross-breed of human beings. Golwalkar was a person who nurtured and spread such kind of beliefs and the name of such a person being given to a scientific institute cannot be justified at any cost.” Isaac asked if V Muraleedhran and M T Ramesh are toeing the same belief about the women of the state, and if they are, they should say it openly. Muraleedharan and Ramesh had earlier defended naming the institute after Golwalkar and had said if the names of leaders like Nehru and Rajiv Gandhi can be given to various institutions, Golwalkar’s name too could be given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/centres-move-draws-flak-from-left-right/articleshow/79612356.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Groom on way to Ghaziabad for wedding takes a detour, joins farmers’ agitation||Bareilly: Wearing a crisp sherwani and decked in flowers and currency notes, Zia Ul, 26, was already running late for Ghaziabad-- where the bride’s side was waiting for him on Monday afternoon-- when he decided to take a detour, for the farmers’ sake. At the site of protest in UP’s Sambhal, organised by a political party, Zia Ul stood out. Protesters thronged him for selfies, and thanked him for coming. But for the groom, it was just a small gesture of respect towards growers who are up against the government’s three farm laws. Son of a farmer, Zia Ul supports his uncle in his business. “It is my wedding day. The date was fixed a few months ago, otherwise I would have actively participated in the protests. I urge our Prime Minister Narendra Modi to understand the grievances of the farmers. They are the backbone of the nation and the new laws should be reverted for their benefit. At the same time, I also request people to protest peacefully and give way to ambulances and people in need,” the groom said. Zia Ul, his family members and friends remained with the protesters for nearly an hour and then left for Ghaziabad where his nikah was solemnised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/groom-on-way-to-ghaziabad-for-wedding-takes-a-detour-joins-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79612355.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||At 20, this B Tech student from Telangana is helping others land jobs||HYDERABAD: At an age when young graduates are usually busy finding their footing in a highly competitive world, 20-year-old Sai Abhinay Chepuri, is not just a successful entrepreneur but is even helping others land jobs. Through his startup — Make It Memorable (MIM) — the final year B Tech student has so far assisted about 70 people, who are talented but not adequately educated, find employment by connecting them with big corporate firms. “Right now, my startup is helping photographers and videographers land well-paid jobs. In the near future, I intend to work with mechanics, electricians, masons, among others, and help them in getting full-time jobs,” the student of Lovely Professional University told TOI adding that his startup has not charged a single rupee from these 70 people. While a majority of those he works with, Chepuri said, have immense talent, they do not know how to showcase their work or build a portfolio. They also lack communication and soft skills. “So, my professors provide basic training to these people at free of cost. Going forward, I plan to charge a nominal fee so that I can help more people,” said Chepuri, who launched this startup in his first year of B Tech. A resident of Karimnagar, the young entrepreneur said he has lau Madhya Pradesh chief minister and BJP central board member Shivraj Singh Chouhan nched another startup---Enviropromise — which currently has 10 employees and 10 interns, and is in talks with Thub and venture capitalists for funding. “Through this startup, we are going to work in four different areas. Firstly, we will be directly working with farmers and teach them efficient ways to produce crops and provide them a platform to sell fresh and organic food items. We will also manufacture and sell recycled products,” said Chepuri adding, “I intend to produce bio-diesel/bio-petrol from waste and manufacture electric and solar vehicles too.” Though family members and friends, he admits, never expected him to start a venture so early in life, the engineering student says he’s always aspired to be where he is today. “Starting my own company was my life’s biggest goal. I am glad I have achieved it early in life as doing so gives me an edge and opportunity to take more risks,” Chepuri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/at-20-this-b-tech-student-is-helping-others-land-jobs/articleshow/79614597.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 8, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on action against autos, drivers for violations||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday sought details from the state government on the number of licences issued for autorickshaws and share autos and action taken against the drivers for violations in the state. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by ‘Traffic’ Ramasamy who sought to take stringent action against the auto drivers who are violating traffic regulations by carrying more than 12 passengers instead of three as per the law. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that share autos have become very useful to the public for transportation. The judges said that it is brought to the knowledge of this court that the autos are violating the traffic regulations by carrying more number of passengers instead of the permitted limit of three people. The judges observed that if accidents occur, the victims would not be able to claim any compensation since the autos are violating the traffic rules by carrying more number of passengers. Though the state government had submitted a report with regard to the details about the autos plying in Madurai, this court wants a comprehensive report with the state-wide details, the judges said. Hence, the judges put forth the following queries: number of licences issued for autos and share autos in the state; violations done by these autos and action taken against the violators; and imposed and suspension of auto licences in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-action-against-autos-drivers-for-violations/articleshow/79614605.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: TiE global entrepreneurship summit all set to begin today||HYDERABAD: TiE Hyderabad on Monday said it will be hosting one of the largest virtual entrepreneurship summits in the world that will be inaugurated by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday. The summit ends on December 10. The summit on theme ‘Entrepreneurship 360’ will also be attended by Union minister for MSME Nitin Gadkari, New Delhi CM Arvind Kejirwal and state IT minister KT Rama Rao along with over 20,000 entrepreneurs, 200 investors and 300 speakers along with members of 25 TiE global chapters. The summit will see participation by over 200 global investors. It will focus on challenges faced by entrepreneurs, provide a platform for strategies to grow businesses. World leaders such as President of Mauritius, President of Costa Rica, Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and Mohammad Yunus will be speakers. Business leaders such as John Chambers, Gautam Adani, NR Narayana Murthy, Indra Nooyi, Mohandas Pai, Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Swati Piramal, Rohini Nilekani, Vineet Nayar, Vijay Sekhar Sharma, Ritesh Agarwal and Sheryl Sandberg will attend. Mahavir Sharma, chairman TiE Global, said, “TiE Global Summit 2020 aims at bringing together start-ups, entrepreneurs, global leaders including heads of countries, successful business leaders, investors with a strong intent to invest in start-ups and enhance opportunities for startups across India to get investments worth billions of dollars. Also act as a gateway to provide Indian entrepreneurs gain market access to countries such as US, Canada, LatAm, Middle East, Europe and APAC.” The summit on theme ‘Entrepreneurship 360’ will be attended by Union minister Nitin Gadkari, New Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejirwal and state IT minister KT Rama Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tie-global-entrepreneurship-summit-all-set-to-begin-today/articleshow/79614603.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: K C Venugopal seeks apology from Union minister||KOZHIKODE: AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, MP, has lashed out at Union minister of state for external affair V Muraleedharan over his statement on the Nehru Trophy Boat Race. Addressing the media at the press club in Wayanad on Monday, Venugopal said the minister should tender an apology to the public for insulting the first Prime Minister of the country. Muraleedharan while justifying the naming of the second campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology after RSS ideologue M S Golwalker had asked which sports did Nehru play to have a boat race named after him. Asked about the statement by UDF convener M M Hassan about local-level understanding with the Welfare Party in the local body elections, Venugopal said that it was KPCC president who is mandated to speak about the official stand of the party in the state. “The UDF has not carried out seat-sharing talks or entered into tie-ups with parties outside the front,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/venugopal-seeks-apology-from-union-min/articleshow/79612366.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Nagpur||Vid wheat, paddy rates show pitfalls of diluting MSP regime||Nagpur: Farmers in Punjab on the warpath against the government mainly grow wheat and paddy, and are entirely dependent on procurement by Food Corporation of India (FCI) at the minimum support price (MSP). There are fears that the new farm laws may dilute the MSP regime. This would expose the wheat and paddy farmers completely to the mercy of private traders, getting them rather low rates for their produce.Vidarbha can be a perfect example to prove their point, say traders and farm activists. Though cotton, soyabean and tur are the mainstay crops of the region, farmers having irrigation facilities also go for wheat in the Rabi season. There has been no MSP procurement of wheat in Vidarbha for last 10 to 20 years, say traders. Due to this, the rates of wheat have been substantially below the MSP.Wheat has a MSP of Rs1,975 a quintal for the current year. As against this, market rates are in the range of Rs1,400 to Rs1,600 a quintal, say traders.“Crops like cotton, soyabean and even tur are purchased on MSP by agencies but not wheat. Farmers also bring wheat to the market, which does not fetch more than Rs1,400 to 1,600 a quintal,” said Sudhir Kothari, director of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) at Hinganghat.Atul Senad, a trader at Kalamna APMC yard, said the MSP ranges according to the grade. The market rates range from Rs1,600 to Rs1,750 at Kalamna, the largest yard in terms of area. He accepted that the price is below MSP for wheat.Senad said simply fixing the MSP cannot help farmers. Rather the government should initiate procuring also, or else the rates are likely to rule below the level.“A number of farmers who have irrigation facility do go for wheat as a second crop. This year, there are reports of farmers plucking out the cotton crop to sow wheat instead,” said Vijay Jawandhia, Shetkari Sanghathana veteranHe said traditionally the rates of wheat have been below MSP, as there is no government procurement here. If the government is not able to buy the produce at MSP, it should subsidize the expenses directly to bridge the gap, he believes.The paddy farmers of eastern Vidarbha this year are mainly depending on MSP procurement under way in the region this year.Sources in the paddy belt say farmers from pockets in Bhandara district have suffered crop losses due to floods this year. The state government is offering a bonus of Rs700 a quintal over and above the MSP of Rs1,800 a quintal. This has led to a majority of farmers going toward government procurement centres, said sources here. In Vidarbha, paddy is mainly grown in Bhandara and Gondia districts, apart from some parts of Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-wheat-paddy-rates-show-pitfalls-of-diluting-msp-regime/articleshow/79613416.cms||Shishir Arya
December 8, 2020||Madurai||Give report on welfare measures for cops: HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday posed a series of queries to the state government, including comparison of salary given to the police personnel in Tamil Nadu and other states, and sought a report from it. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by A Masilamani, a retired policeman from Karur district who sought for a direction to increase the salary and allowance of police personnel, to increase the per capita of the police force in the state and also sought to fill up the vacancies in the police department. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that it has been brought to the notice of this court that the salary provided to the police personnel are less in the state when compared to the other states in the country. Hence, the judges put forth the following queries: What are all the problems faced by the police personnel in the state and whether there is a mechanism for addressing their grievance; whether time bound promotion is given; and whether insurance benefits are given to the police personnel. The judges also sought for details on the number of police personnel who deserted their jobs and the number of police personnel who committed suicide during the past 10 years in the state; whether one day holiday is given to the police personnel and whether leave is granted to them for attending social functions and birthdays of their children. The judges further sought details on the police:people ratio in the state; number of vacancies and the steps taken to fill the vacancies in the police department; details on the number of police personnel who are facing criminal and departmental proceedings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/give-report-on-welfare-measures-for-cops-hc/articleshow/79614608.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Dehradun||Farm protests: AAP holds protest march to gherao CM’s office, stopped by police||Dehradun: Ahead of Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh call by farmers against the three contentious farm laws, the Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), led by its state chief SS Kaler, carried a protest march to gherao the chief minister’s house. Hundreds of AAP workers who gathered at Kalidas Road Chowk were stopped near Hathibarkala by the police from going ahead. During the march, the AAP workers raised slogans against the Centre and demanded withdrawal of the three farm bills. “AAP supports the farmers who are protesting against the anti-farmer laws passed by the Centre. We are also supporting the Bharat Bandh call on December 8,” said Kaler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/farm-protests-aap-holds-protest-march-to-gherao-cms-office-stopped-by-police/articleshow/79612372.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 8, 2020||Goa||Special ferry rate reduced from Rs 250 to Rs 100 per trip||Panaji: The government has decided to reduce the rate for special ferry services on all routes, except the Cortalim-Marcaim route, from Rs 250 to Rs 100 per trip. Following discontentment among the public about the enhanced rate, minister for river navigation Milind Naik had moved a note to chief minister Pramod Sawant to reduce the fare. The same has been approved by the chief minister, an official said. Villagers of Chorao had moved the high court of Bombay at Goa after the river navigation department raised the fare for special trips from Rs 50 to 250 earlier this year. Special trips are conducted when regular ferry service is halted. The villagers said that the rate was raised without considering any factors and done in an “arbitrary manner” and hence, the order hiking the fare should be revoked. The ferry being the only medium of transport to reach the mainland, the fare hike especially affected people working the night shift who had to shell out Rs 250 a trip either to return to the island or go out. Villagers who had to leave the island at odd hours in the event of an emergency, too, were left with no choice but to pay Rs 250 for a special trip. The villagers have for long been demanding a bridge to enable them to travel without hassle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-ferry-rate-reduced-from-rs-250-to-rs-100-per-trip/articleshow/79615703.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cases drop, dip not as big in ventilatory patients||AHMEDABAD: Analysis of the occupancy pattern for non-requisitioned beds at 103 city hospitals treating Covid-19 patients reveals that the numbers of beds occupied have dipped, but fall in absolute number is not as great as the bed occupancy ratio, which has come down from 94% to 69% in two weeks. In the past week, the number of beds occupied in isolation and high-dependency units (HDU) (patients needing oxygen) reduced by 21% and 17%, respectively, based on data from the Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). In comparison, cases requiring ICU beds (without ventilator) and ventilators reduced by 15% and 9%, respectively. Overall occupancy reduced by 17.7% from 2,815 to 2,317. The overall numbers have seen a slight reduction in Ahmedabad city, as new Covid-19 cases on November 23, 30 and December 7 were 319, 291 and 289, respectively, implying a dip of 9.4% in two weeks. The deaths on these three dates were 13, 13 and 9, respectively. What changed for the city, however, was the addition of 651 beds in the past two weeks, including 40 with ventilators and 103 ICU beds without ventilators. The biggest jump was observed in HDUs with 347 beds for patients requiring oxygen. “Complaints of unavailability of beds have reduced significantly. The issues patients sometimes face is admission at hospital of their choice,” said Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA. The addition of beds has also reduced the burden on government hospitals. At Medicity, overall occupancy was 914 of 1,800-odd beds available. \ “Occupancy at its peak after Diwali had reached 1,300. Across institutions, 180 patients are on ventilatory care which includes ventilators, ICUs and oxygen support. The ratio has reduced by about 30-35% compared to the scenario two weeks ago,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-drop-dip-not-as-big-in-ventilatory-patients/articleshow/79614621.cms||Parth Shastri
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Make Bharat Bandh successful, says Congress||BHOPAL: State Congress on Monday said issued a statement saying the party is in total support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers on Tuesday against the three agro-reform laws passed by the Centre. The party sent an instruction to its district offices saying that AICC’s instructions are to make the protest of farmers successful. Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Monday said that the Centre’s three agrarian laws were passed without discussion and approval of farmers. He claimed the laws will destroy farmers and has no mention or assurance of acquisition of agricultural produce under Minimum Support price (MSP). Nath argued that the laws will end the mandi system and will benefit only the corporate world, encourage black-marketeering and profiteering. “These laws are totally against the interest of farmers,” the senior Congress leader said. Kamal Nath reminded that the Modi-Centre came to power promising to double the income of farmers and make farming a profitable venture and now with these black laws is out to destroy agriculture and agrarians. “It is shameful that all farmers’ unions and organisations are protesting for the past 11 days in this tremendous cold weather with their families and the obstinate Union government is not revoking the laws,” Kamal Nath said. He claimed that the Union government is working under the pressure of corporate houses. Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh appealed to all citizens of the state to “cooperate” and observe Bharat Bandh on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-make-bharat-bandh-successful/articleshow/79613418.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bareilly||Groom on way to Ghaziabad for wedding takes a detour, joins protest||BAREILLY: Wearing a crisp sherwani and decked in flowers and currency notes, Zia Ul, 26, was already running late for Ghaziabad-- where the bride’s side was waiting for him on Monday afternoon-- when he decided to take a detour, for the farmers’ sake. At the site of protest in UP’s Sambhal, organised by a political party, Zia Ul stood out. Protesters thronged him for selfies, and thanked him for coming. But for the groom, it was just a small gesture of respect towards growers who are up against the government’s three farm laws. Son of a farmer, Zia Ul supports his uncle in his business. “It is my wedding day. The date was fixed a few months ago, otherwise I would have actively participated in the protests. I urge our Prime Minister Narendra Modi to understand the grievances of the farmers. They are the backbone of the nation and the new laws should be reverted for their benefit. At the same time, I also request people to protest peacefully and give way to ambulances and people in need,” the groom said. Zia Ul, his family members and friends remained with the protesters for nearly an hour and then left for Ghaziabad where his nikah was solemnised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/groom-on-way-to-ghaziabad-for-wedding-takes-a-detour-joins-farmers-agitation/articleshow/79612364.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||BJP takes exception to Hemant’s tweet, JMM appeals for support||Ranchi: The ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha on Monday issued an appeal to people of the state to make Tuesday’s Bharat bandh called by farmers’ unions a success. The central general secretary of the party, Supriyo Bhattacharya, also said that JMM workers would hit the streets in support of the strike to send out a strong message to the Centre. Addressing the media at the party office here on Monday, he said: “The farm laws passed by the Centre are unconstitutional and must be withdrawn. Just amending the laws will not be enough.” Bhattacharya added that agriculture and farm work were listed as state subjects in the Constitution and the Union government had no right to frame laws in those matters. “We have all witnessed how the bills were approved in Parliament, setting aside all procedures and code of conduct. Now when the farmers are agitating, efforts are being made to silence them as well,” he said. “My appeal goes out to everyone who eat rice and wheat produced by these farmers. We should support their demand and make the Bharat bandh successful, so that the idea of selling out agriculture to corporate houses is thwarted,” Bhattacharya said. BJP, on the other hand, lashed out at chief minister Hemant Soren for his tweet expressing support to the bandh. Party spokesperson Saroj Singh said that if the CM was supporting the bandh, would the state government declare an official holiday or ask its officials to not report to work on Tuesday. “We are wondering if the administration will take any action against elements that resort to vandalism to enforce bandhs,” he said. Replying to the charges of BJP, Bhattacharya said that Soren was also the working president of JMM. “Hemant Soren has one Twitter handle, so his appeal was as a party worker and not as the chief minister of the state. He has not used the Twitter handle of Jharkhand CM,” he said. BJP state president Deepak Prakash addressed the media in Jamshedpur and criticised Congress for opposing the farm laws. “Anyone can check the Congress website and their stand on farm laws as was mentioned in point number 11 of page number 17 of their manifesto for 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” he said, adding that not just Congress but other UPA partners have also changed their position on farm laws. Prakash said that none other than Rahul Gandhi in 2013 had announced to de-list fruits and vegetables from the APMC Act to bring down the prices. “People should understand the dual policies of these political parties and decide what is good for the farmers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-takes-exception-to-hemants-tweet-jmm-appeals-for-support/articleshow/79612648.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||FIR against Babulal bro for threat to Giridih SDM||Bokaro: Giridih police have lodged an FIR against the younger brother of former chief minister and leader of opposition Babulal Marandi, Nunulal Marandi, for threatening Giridih SDM Prerna Dixit last week, deputy commissioner Rahul Kumar Sinha said on Monday. On Saturday, Nunulal, who is a member of the BJP district unit, sparked off a controversy by reportedly calling Dixit ‘Hitler’ and he threatened to teach her a lesson when BJP is back in power. He allegedly said that he would get her trampled by a tractor and then throw her body in a ditch. The comments were made after the local BJP unit sought permission to hold a demonstration on December 8 but the SDM’s office denied it. The demonstration was aimed at putting pressure on the administration to float tenders for sand mining. Upon denial, Nunulal lost his temper and made those nasty comments. Later, he issued an apology after the local media reported about the incident. BJP, however, distanced itself from the comments made by Nunulal. The party’s district president, Mahadev Dubey, said, “Whatever he said was his personal view and the party doesn’t support it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fir-against-babulal-bro-for-threat-to-giridih-sdm/articleshow/79612662.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Jamshedpur||2 deaths take Jharkhand Covid toll to 988||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded two Covid death, 179 fresh infections and 214 recoveries on Monday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,10,186. Of these, 1,07,710 have recovered, 988 have died and 1,759 are still battling the viral infection. The deaths reported on Saturday came from Dhanbad and East Singhbhum. The state capital reported the highest number of new cases (79), followed by Easti Singhbhum (25), Bokaro (13) and Dhanbad (10). The remaining 20 districts reported new cases in single digits. As per government data, taking the recovery rate touched 97.71% while the seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15% against the national average of 0.32%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/2-deaths-take-state-cov-toll-to-988/articleshow/79621596.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||Hadiya selling women in Jharkhand take up alternative careers||Ranchi: The state government’s initiative to provide a respectable source of income to the scores of rural women involved in selling hadiya (country-made liquor) under its Fulo Jhano Ashirwad Yojna has borne fruit as a sizeable percentage is benefiting from alternative jobs like poultry farming and sewing. According to the data released by the state rural development department, of the 16,549 women identified under the ‘Mission Navjivan’ survey – conducted in July – 7,117 have been provided with alternative sources of income. As part of the Yojna, the selected women were given soft loans and were counselled and assisted by Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotional Society in setting up their own business. As a token of appreciation, earlier this week state rural development secretary Aaradhna Patnaik congratulated the self-help groups (SHGs) members across all districts for counselling and training those women and making the scheme a success. Addressing the SHG members via video conferencing, Patnaik said, “I congratulate all of you for making the scheme a success. I would urge you to keep up the good work and to encourage more rural women to familiarise themselves with the livelihood scheme that offers interest-free loans for entrepreneurship.” Beneficiary Shweta Hansda, a resident of Dumri block in Giridih district, shared her experiences with Patnaik. “Due to financial constraints, I had to sell hadiya for three years. But after being motivated by the SHG didis and with the financial help from the government, I have opened a ration shop in my village and now earn around Rs 6,000 per month,” she said. Similarly, Palamu resident Sanju Devi spoke of the benefits she received under the scheme. “I, along with 12 other women from my village, were involved in selling haidya since 2017 as we didn’t have any other option. But all of us have left the business, thanks to the scheme. Some are now involved in poultry farming while I have purchased a sewing machine and now run a small tailor shop in my village,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hadiya-selling-women-in-jharkhand-take-up-alternative-careers/articleshow/79614945.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||People’s participation must to solve traffic issues: Ranchi MP||Ranchi: Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth on Monday called for increased participation of the civil society in solving traffic woes of the state capital. Seth, who presided over a meeting of the district road safety committee here, said day-to-day problems faced by the common people have to be kept in mind before implementing any measure. Talking to TOI, Seth said: “The authorities have been implementing several measures to solve traffic woes of the state capital but we haven’t made any significant progress. So I would urge the authorities to increase people’s participation in finding solutions.” The meeting was attended by several members of the committee — including the district transport officer, traffic SP, municipal commissioner and representatives of the NHAI and state highway authority. Ranchi district transport officer Praveen Prakash said: “The members discussed the works being carried out on NH-33 and NH-75 and ways to decongest city roads by removing encroachments. Traffic authorities also highlighted the current status of signalling in the city.” On being asked what they were planning to do to increase public participation in implementing road safety measures, Prakash said: “We have decided to invite prominent people from business, academic and social sectors to get better ideas.” On being asked about road accidents and fatalities reported in Ranchi district this year, Prakash said: “A total of 435 accidents have been reported between January and October; with 298 casualties and 265 injured.” A review of steps taken to curb traffic violations by motorists was also conducted by district authorities during the meet and as per district transport officials a total of 1,75,880 challans were issued for traffic violations, 21,941 driving licenses were suspended and 12,370 people were counselled by traffic authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/peoples-participation-must-to-solve-traffic-issues-ranchi-mp/articleshow/79612621.cms||Gaurav Pandey
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||2 deaths take Jharkhand Covid toll to 988||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded two Covid death, 179 fresh infections and 214 recoveries on Monday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,10,186. Of these, 1,07,710 have recovered, 988 have died and 1,759 are still battling the viral infection. The deaths reported on Saturday came from Dhanbad and East Singhbhum. The state capital reported the highest number of new cases (79), followed by Easti Singhbhum (25), Bokaro (13) and Dhanbad (10). The remaining 20 districts reported new cases in single digits. As per government data, taking the recovery rate touched 97.71% while the seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.15% against the national average of 0.32%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-deaths-take-state-cov-toll-to-988/articleshow/79614785.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||CBSE Exam 2021: Schools bat for offline exams, await Board, govt guidelines||RANCHI: After carrying out online classes throughout the academic session, conducting the annual examinations will be another challenge for the schools. Several schools here said that offline examinations would be ideal but much depends on state government guidelines and the Covid situation. Meanwhile, many prominent schools have advocated for re-opening of educational institutions with proper safety norms. Their managements were hopeful that a decision on starting schools in January would be taken. Speaking on the issue, the chairman of Jharkhand Academic Council, Arvind Singh, said, “If the Covid situation improves, JAC would conduct the examinations through the offline mode. A large chunk of our students hails from economically weaker section and far-flung areas. They do not have smart phones and data connectivity to take part in online examinations.” Delhi Public School principal and chairperson of Sahodaya schools Ram Singh said that schools have been closed for a long period and both the students and the teachers were eagerly waiting for the schools to reopen. He further said that his school would like to hold annual examinations off-line owing to limitations of online test. Singh said, “If schools reopen, we would certainly hold the offline examinations while complying with Covid protocols.” Several other schools, including the Don Bosco and the Guru Nanak Public School, said they were awaiting the guidelines from CBSE and the state government. Principal of Guru Nanak Public School Manohar Lal said that CBSE authorities were scheduled to meet government officials by end of the week and some decision may be taken in the meeting. Meanwhile, the president of Jharkhand Abhibhawak Sangh, Ajai Rai, said that while schools were awaiting government directives, the parents were in a state of confusion. He said, “The schools should promote all students this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-bat-for-offline-exams-await-cbse-govt-guidelines/articleshow/79625510.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||On Bharat Bandh, biz as usual for traders||Ranchi: Even as political parties gear up to hit the streets for supporting the Bharat bandh on Tuesday – called by farmers protesting against the recently enacted farm laws at the Delhi-NCR border – it’ll be business as usual for bus owners and traders. Citing the losses incurred during lockdown and the chance to make that up during the ongoing wedding season, the proprietors have decided against halting their operations. Jharkhand Bus Owners’ Association president Krishna Mohan Singh said “As of now, we have decided to ply intra and interstate buses as usual and depending on the situation in the streets tomorrow, we will decide accordingly.” He added, “The bus owners are free to stay off the roads if they prefer to do so. The association has purposely refrained from issuing any directive owing to the losses incurred during lockdown and due to several buses being booked in advance for ferrying baraatis.” Autos too are expected to follow suit. An office-bearer of the Jharkhand Diesel Auto Chalak Sangh said that no decision to stay off the roads has been taken yet. The state’s apex body of traders, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), is neither in favour of nor against the bandh, its president Kunal Ajmani said. “Traders will go about their business as usual. Till December 11, we have a peak marriage season and that gives us a chance to do brisk business. After being closed since March due to the lockdown we cannot afford to shut shops now. A final call, however, will be taken based on tomorrow’s circumstances,” he added. Meanwhile, political parties — including the ones in the ruling dispensation, Congress and JMM — are set to hit the streets on Tuesday. Congress, which on Sunday had directed its cadres to come out on the streets in order to “make the bandh successful”, chalked out the modalities on Monday. “The bandh ha primarily been called by the annadatas (providers) of the country and the party stands by them. Tomorrow the party workers will hold demonstrations, organise marches and sit-ins from the state to the panchayat level against the anti-farmer laws,” Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said. Another party spokesperson, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, said the party will ensure maintenance of law and order. “We appeal to the shopkeepers and business owners to down their shutters tomorrow,” he added. JMM, the leading alliance partner in the mahagathbandhan government, has extended its support after chief minister and party’s working president Hemant Soren said on Sunday night that they will stand in solidarity with the farmers. Police, on the other hand, have upped their vigil to ensure that the bandh remains peaceful. State police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said all the districts have been asked to mobilise their respective forces in sensitive pockets in order to make sure that public property isn’t damaged. “All the districts have been asked to identify sensitive areas, including highways and railway tracks, for deployment of additional forces. All of the district forces have been asked to make sure that the safety norms pertaining to Covid-19 are followed. They will also keep an eye on social media for any derogatory posts or videos.” Ranchi police will deploy forces at bus stands, interstate check-posts and roads leading up to the railway station and airport from early in the morning. City SP Saurav said, “We will follow all the established drills and protocols which are required to maintain law and order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/on-bharat-bandh-biz-as-usual-for-traders/articleshow/79612639.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||7 Jharkhand districts may plunge into darkness from Saturday after DVC warns of power regulation||Ranchi: Seven districts of the state are likely to plunge into darkness from Saturday as the power major, Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), has threatened to regulate power in these districts if its monthly power bills of Rs 150 crore are not paid in full. The state-owned power distribution company, Jharkhand Bijli Vitaran Nigam Ltd. (JBVNL), confirmed the development on Monday. DVC supplies power to Bokaro, Dhanbad, Giridih, Koderma, Ramgarh, Chatra and Hazaribag districts. Talking to TOI, JBVNL executive director K K Verma said, “We have received a letter from the DVC demanding full payment of its monthly energy bills. The average monthly bills owed to DVC for the power it supplies to the 7 districts are to the tune of Rs 150 crore. We are in talks with the power major to resolve the crisis. We stand committed to pay for power purchased from the DVC every month. Steps are already underway to clear all outstanding bills.” Verma also said the total outstanding bills owed to DVC is around Rs 4,950 crore but clarified that the Centre has already adjusted around Rs 2,834 crore in two instalments this year by auto-debiting from the state’s consolidated account maintained with the Reserve Bank of India. Payment of the balance amount is under discussion, he said, adding that the DVC’s recent letter is regarding the monthly power bills. Since the beginning of this year, JBVNL has purchased power worth around Rs 225 crore from DVC every month. Following initiatives taken by the Jharkhand Urja Sancharan Nigam Ltd., the state-owned power transmission company, to strengthen the power infrastructure in various districts of the state, the dependence on DVC has been curtailed and the power bills have come down from Rs 225 crore to Rs.150 crore at present, Verma explained. On JBVNL’s revenue collection, Verma said, “Our revenue has taken a hit because of the Covid pandemic and a moratorium on payment of power bills by consumers. The government had provided three months’ moratorium along with other relief in September this year, reducing our collection from Rs 250 crore to a paltry Rs 90 crore. As a result, we had defaulted on payment of monthly power bills to DVC.” He added, “We expect our monthly revenue collections to cross Rs.300 crore from January 2021 and payment of monthly bills to DVC would be regularised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/7-jharkhand-districts-may-plunge-into-darkness-from-saturday-after-dvc-warns-of-power-regulation/articleshow/79612719.cms||Tapas Biswas
December 8, 2020||Ranchi||Explain demolition of shops in Steel City: Saryu to DC||Jamshedpur: Independent MLA from Jamshedpur East Saryu Rai and his Bharatiya Jan Morcha members on Sunday expressed anguish over the East Singhbhum district administration’s decision to demolish 22 shops constructed on encroached land near Sunisuniyah gate near Burmamines area on Saturday. The MLA called up the deputy commissioner from the demolition site and asked for clarifications on why the action was taken without prior information to the local legislator. The demolition drive was undertaken by the district administration, officials of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and Tata Steel on Saturday. Rai said, “The shopkeepers were earning their livelihood and not have lost their source of income. Thus is an injustice.” Rai pointed out that encroachments have mushroomed at several other places in the Steel City, but the administration is not taking any action. The MLA also tagged the demolition drive as a political vengeance. Meanwhile, sources said the administration had planned to remove the encroachment in the area long back and the shop owners were formally informed on Saturday two hours before the drive. According to sources, many of the shops in the area were controlled by jailed gangster Akhiklesh Singh and his associates. The makeshift hotels often turned into illegal liquor dens after sundown. Anti-social elements used to frequent the liquor dens which created a lot of problem for the locals and cases of eve-teasing were on the rise. After the shops were razed, the shop owners and their supporters blocked the main road near the area for two hours. Police had a tough time removing the agitators who demanded adequate compensation for the affected families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/explain-demolition-of-shops-in-steel-city-saryu-to-dc/articleshow/79612490.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Business||UK creditor asks court to scrap Pramod Mittal’s offer||The single creditor which made steel magnate billionaire Laskhmi Mittal’s brother Pramod Mittal bankrupt in Britain, Moorgate Industries UK (Moorgate), on Monday challenged Mittal’s IVA (individual voluntary arrangement) in the London high court. It is calling for a court order that the IVA — which was approved by a majority of creditors — be revoked. If the insolvency and companies court (ICC) grants the order, Pramod (64) will revert to being bankrupt, meaning a bankruptcy trustee will have wider powers of investigation into his assets globally. Pramod owes Moorgate 140 million pounds (Rs 1,375 crore) debt plus interest but under the terms of the IVA he only has to pay Moorgate back 266,000 pounds (Rs 261 lakh). The IVA was approved by 75% of the value of the creditors at a creditors’ meeting on October 26. Moorgate voted against the IVA. Moorgate is seeking a court order that the IVA be revoked either on the basis of “material irregularities” or on the basis that the creditors who approved it, did so “in bad faith”, the court heard. According to the IVA, Mittal owes 20 unsecured creditors 2.5 billion pounds (Rs 24,500 crore). The creditors include his wife Sangeeta, son Divyesh, father Mohan Lal and nephew Amit Lohia. Moorgate’s barrister Joseph Curl told the court that “the trigger for the IVA appears to have been the bankruptcy trustee pressing Pramod to deliver up electronic devices and documents” and then all these creditor claims — “came out of the woodwork” — which are “seriously dubious” and “relying on obviously uncommercial debts” and have not been through any judicial determination. He alleged the IVA had been procured to “stymie the bankruptcy powers of investigation.” “The IVA was done so he could avoid delivering up electronic devices and documents so the legitimate creditors like my client don’t have access to the documents we need,” Curl said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/uk-creditor-asks-court-to-scrap-pramod-mittals-offer/articleshow/79616478.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Cabinet panel for OBC census, Rs 5,000 crore to run schemes||MUMBAI: Amid growing tensions between the OBC and Maratha communities in the state, the cabinet sub-committee for OBCs has submitted its primary report, recommending an independent census of the community in the state and a Rs 5,000 crore budget provision to be made for schemes for the community in the Maharashtra budget. This is being seen as an attempt to protect the OBC quota. The primary report was submitted by food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, who heads the sub-committee, to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. The report has recommended that the state should forward its suggestion for an independent OBC census to the Centre. "It has been decided that the state will pass a proposal in the winter session about sending this recommendation to the Centre," a minister said. A housing scheme for OBCs, overseas education scholarships and filling the recruitment backlog in government posts are a few of the other recommendations made by the committee. The sub-committee for the OBCs was formed in mid-October after the Supreme Court gave an interim stay on implementation of the Maratha quota in the state. Now some Maratha groups are demanding a share of the 19% OBC reservation, which may lead to a conflict between the communities. The meeting was chaired by Thackeray and attended by deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Bhujbal and other ministers. According to the primary report, the sub-committee recommended that Rs 100 crore to be kept aside for housing schemes for OBCs in the state, an overseas education scholarship for OBC students, Rs 200 crore be given to the state-run Vasantrao Naik Vimukta Jatis and Nomadic Tribe development corporation and Rs 150 crore for the 'Mahajyoti' (Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Research and Training Institute). It has also asked that the recruitment backlog in government establishments be filled, hostel facility be set up for OBC students in various districts and a special fund should be made available for 12 trader communities (Balutedars). VJNT minister Vijay Wadettiwar claimed the demand for an independent census had nothing to do with the Maratha reservation issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-cabinet-panel-for-obc-census-rs-5000-crore-to-run-schemes/articleshow/79616501.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 8, 2020||World||Biden builds his health team to fight the raging pandemic||President-elect Joe Biden said he will nominate California attorney general Xavier Becerra for secretary of health and human services on Monday as one of the top officials on his team to fight the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Biden chose Becerra, 62, a Latino former congressman, as he faces more pressure to add diversity to his cabinet appointments. Becerra will lead the health agency as officials struggle to contain a resurgence of the novel coronavirus, including record infections and a daily death toll that has exceeded 2,000 in recent days. “This team of world-class medical experts and public servants will be ready on Day One to mobilise every resource of the federal government to expand testing and masking,” Biden said in a statement, adding that they would “oversee the safe, equitable, and free distribution of treatments and vaccines”. More than 282,000 Americans have died from Covid-19, according to a Reuters tally. Authorities in California, the most populous state in the country with about 40 million residents, on Monday compelled much of the state to close shop and stay at home the day after it reported a record 30,000-plus new cases. Biden’s choice of Becerra adds a political operator to a health effort that would otherwise largely rely on government administrators and health experts. During his time in Congress, Becerra played a role in passing the Affordable Care Act, Democratic President Barack Obama’s main domestic policy achievement. Biden also chose Rochelle Walensky, chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital, to run the US Centers for Disease Control. Biden picked Vivek Murthy, a physician and former surgeon general, to return for a second term as surgeon general. He is trusted national voice on health issues and a long-time adviser to Biden. Dr Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, whom Biden has tapped as his chief medical adviser on the coronavirus, said he would be involved in all aspects of the response. Biden also named Jeff Zients, an economic adviser, as a coronavirus “czar” to oversee a Covid-19 response that will soon include an unprecedented operation to distribute vaccines. He chose Marcella Nunez-Smith, a professor at the Yale School of Medicine, to lead a group to deal with addressing the disproportionate virus impact on Black and Latino Americans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-builds-his-health-team-to-fight-the-raging-pandemic/articleshow/79616502.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||At over Rs 80 per litre, diesel at two-decade high in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The price of diesel, which stood at Rs80.51 on Monday, is the highest in Mumbai in two decades, leaving transporters and motorists fuming. Between April and December, the rates of fuel —both diesel and petrol —have increased by around Rs 14, making it one of the biggest hikes in recent years. While petrol price zoomed from Rs 76.31 on April 2 to Rs 90.34 on December 7, diesel prices saw a gradual hike from Rs 66.21 in April to Rs 80.51 per litre on Monday. The record high price of diesel is likely to increase freight charges on transportation by 7-8% and drive up prices of essentials. Transporters from All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) have threatened a repeat of their 2018 nationwide agitation if the hikes are not curtailed. Sources said diesel was at its lowest in two decades on June 4, 2002 when the rate was Rs 22.84 a litre at the pumps. The increase has been over 250% since then. “Also, the 21% hike in diesel rates during Covid months between April and December and 18% hike for petrol during the same period are uncalled for. We strongly protest the hikes and want the government to give relief on taxes, VAT and excise -- the rates for which are highest in our state,” said a leading transporter from Masjid Bunder, requesting anonymity. According to statistics obtained by TOI, diesel cost around Rs 23 a litre in June 2002, and had increased to Rs 33 in December 2004 after which it was hiked to Rs 40 in June 2006. In a subsequent dip, diesel was around Rs36 in January 2008. The prices went up again -- from Rs 44 a litre in March 2011 to Rs 66 in May 2014, followed by a slide to Rs 57 in July 2017. After this, fuel prices witnessed a record hike. By October 2018, it had peaked to Rs 80.10 a litre. Exactly a year later, prices were brought down and it was retailing at Rs 70.76 in October 2019. By April 2, 2020, the prices were further reduced to Rs 66.21. During the initial two Covid months, prices remained steady. “Prices have been fluctuating since June, and the present rate is unwarranted,” said Bal Malkit Singh, core committee member of AIMTC. “When international crude prices are considerably down, diesel has soared above Rs 80 per litre in Mumbai. The mathematics of decontrol regime is not understandable. It is adversely impacting the common man, farmers and the transport sector,” he said in a statement released on Monday. Transporters have warned that if pushed to the wall, they may agitate again. In 2018, they had protested with a nationwide chakka jam, which crippled transportation of manufacturing and industrial goods and affected operations at the ports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-over-rs-80-per-litre-diesel-at-two-decade-high-in-mumbai/articleshow/79616506.cms||Somit Sen
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Court says 4-year-old can't be tutored, 2 get 20 years for rape||MUMBAI: Observing that a four-year-old child cannot be tutored to depose falsely, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court convicted and sentenced two 20-year-old college students to 20 years' rigorous imprisonment for being involved in her sexual assault. The crime was committed in 2018 when she was three. While one accused, her neighbour, sexually assaulted her in the common passage of their building, the other, his friend, abetted the offence by keeping watch and giving him instructions. He also touched her inappropriately. A third, a juvenile in conflict with law, also accused of sexually assaulting the child, is being tried separately. On the night of November 20, 2018, the child's uncle who had come out of the house to pacify his crying baby, found the girl in the common passage, sitting on a couch with the accused and the juvenile. The other convicted accused was standing guard. The three boys soon left. The child's uncle then took her home and informed her father about his observations. When the child's mother took her into confidence, she described the sexual assault.  When a local doctor examined the child and confirmed her version, the family went to the police. The accused were subsequently arrested. The child, her mother and uncle were among those who deposed during the trial. Refusing to grant leniency to the accused on grounds of their youth, the court said age alone could not be the dominant factor in deciding the quantum of sentence. "Logical explanation or reasoning would always be available in favour of any age and then it would be almost impossible to imprison any accused. The child of three years who used to call the accused 'dada' (elder brother)... (they) took disadvantage of the trust and committed rape," the court said. The court said the quantum of sentence should not only deter the accused from committing such offences in the future but also the public at large. The court observed child sex abuse is considered the most heinous crime as it exposes the minor to such grave trauma that it can take a lifetime to feel normal. "Punishing the accused is little solace to the sufferings caused to her without any fault on her part," the court said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-court-says-4-year-old-cant-be-tutored-2-get-20-years-for-rape/articleshow/79616514.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||Second victim of Mumbai's Lalbaug blast succumbs, several critical||MUMBAI: One more person succumbed to injuries from the cooking gas cylinder blast at Lalbaug on Sunday, taking the toll to two. The victim, identified as Kareem Khan (45), was among the injured admitted to the BMC-run KEM Hospital. According to a BMC press release, four patients at KEM continue to be critical, while six are stable. Four members of the Ambike family admitted to Masina Hospital, Byculla, are also critical. Those critical have around 70% to 90% burn injuries. Sushila Bangare (62) was the first victim of the blaze. The blast occurred just after a fire broke out while food was being prepared for a pre-wedding 'haldi' ceremony. Fire officials said a gas leak had caused a minor fire when cooking was underway on the day of the haldi. The accident occurred on the second floor of the four-storey building. Dilip Khatu, president of the proposed Sarabhai cooperative housing society, said the bride's father, Mangesh Rane, ran a catering business. "Since it was his daughter's marriage, he decided to do the catering himself. His family did not stay here. His son Yash and he have suffered severe burn injuries. Khan worked as a cook with Rane. Rane had brought a commercial cylinder to prepare the food. The gas leak resulted in a blast and its force was such that the walls on either side of that room crumbled and fell. The fire spread so rapidly that all those who opened their doors hearing the blast were injured. Even the common toilet doors have been twisted out of shape. The toilets cannot be used unless the doors are replaced," he said. "It is a real tragedy. We stay on the third floor. Our Diwali lantern caught fire, but luckily it did not spread elsewhere," said Khatu. There are 31 tenants and nine shops in the 85-year-old building which stands on a Wakf Board property. The residents have been trying to go in for redevelopment for several years now. "Our building has been repaired nearly 20 times. We urgently need to go in for redevelopment," said Khatu. On Tuesday, Mhada will be carrying out repairs of the second floor. BEST has discontinued electricity supply to five rooms on the second floor as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/second-victim-of-mumbais-lalbaug-blast-succumbs-several-critical/articleshow/79616523.cms||Clara Lewis
December 8, 2020||World||US acts against Pakistan, China for violations of religious freedom||WASHINGTON: The United States on Monday designated Pakistan and China in its list of "Countries of Particular Concern" (CPC) for engaging in or tolerating "systematic and egregious violations of religious freedom". Both Pakistan and China are among the 10 countries highlighted by the US State Department as CPCs for their failure to stem the persecution and discrimination of faith groups. In an official statement, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Burma, China, Eritrea, Iran, Nigeria, the DPRK, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan have been designated as CPC under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, as amended, for engaging in or tolerating systematic, ongoing, egregious violations of religious freedom. The Secretary of State further informed that countries - Comoros, Cuba, Nicaragua and Russia have been placed on a Special Watch List for governments that have engaged in or tolerated "severe violations of religious freedom". "The United States will continue to work tirelessly to end religiously motivated abuses and persecution around the world, and to help ensure that each person, everywhere, at all times, has the right to live according to the dictates of conscience," Pompeo said. Additionally, al-Shabaab, al-Qa'ida, Boko Haram, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, the Houthis, ISIS, ISIS-Greater Sahara, ISIS-West Africa, Jamaat Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin, and the Taliban have been designated as "Entities of Particular Concern" under the Frank R. Wolf International Religious Freedom Act of 2016, Pompeo said. He further said that Sudan and Uzbekistan have been removed from the Special Watch List based on "significant, concrete progress" undertaken by their governments the past year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-acts-against-pakistan-china-for-violations-of-religious-freedom/articleshow/79616524.cms||---
December 8, 2020||World||US acts against Pakistan, China for violations of religious freedom||WASHINGTON: The United States on Monday designated Pakistan and China in its list of "Countries of Particular Concern" (CPC) for engaging in or tolerating "systematic and egregious violations of religious freedom". Both Pakistan and China are among the 10 countries highlighted by the US State Department as CPCs for their failure to stem the persecution and discrimination of faith groups. In an official statement, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Burma, China, Eritrea, Iran, Nigeria, the DPRK, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan have been designated as CPC under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998, as amended, for engaging in or tolerating systematic, ongoing, egregious violations of religious freedom. The Secretary of State further informed that countries - Comoros, Cuba, Nicaragua and Russia have been placed on a Special Watch List for governments that have engaged in or tolerated "severe violations of religious freedom". "The United States will continue to work tirelessly to end religiously motivated abuses and persecution around the world, and to help ensure that each person, everywhere, at all times, has the right to live according to the dictates of conscience," Pompeo said. Additionally, al-Shabaab, al-Qa'ida, Boko Haram, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, the Houthis, ISIS, ISIS-Greater Sahara, ISIS-West Africa, Jamaat Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin, and the Taliban have been designated as "Entities of Particular Concern" under the Frank R. Wolf International Religious Freedom Act of 2016, Pompeo said. He further said that Sudan and Uzbekistan have been removed from the Special Watch List based on "significant, concrete progress" undertaken by their governments the past year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/us-acts-against-pakistan-china-for-violations-of-religious-freedom/articleshow/79616525.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||Bharat Bandh: APMCs closed, but buses, cabs to run in Mumbai||MUMBAI: With key APMC markets closing on Tuesday to support the Bharat Bandh for farmers, fruit and vegetable supply to the city will be impacted. Buses, autos and taxis are expected to ply. Smaller taxi and rickshaw unions, though, joined the strike, which will affect transport in parts of the city, including Kalyan. Retail shops and banks will remain open. Members of the key union, the Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation, will report to work and support the bandh by wearing badges and holding morchas and demonstrations. The APMC markets in Vashi and Kalyan will be shut and will be joined by a section of the 315 market yards in the state, along with traders and loaders' unions. "We have given a call for the closure of state APMCs and expect at least 50-70% of the 315 APMCs to remain closed," said NCP leader Shashikant Shinde, secretary, Maharashtra Rajya Mathadi Transport and General Kamgar Union. With transporters' unions also on strike, supply of essentials could be squeezed. "We join the bandh and suspend our operations. Farmers are our anna-daata," said Bal Malkit Singh of All India Motor Transport Congress. The transporters' bandh could also affect the supply of goods to businesses in the city. Autos, taxis and buses will ply in most parts of the city with bigger unions, including BEST workers' union, not joining the bandh. Nearly 1.5 lakh autos, 20,000 taxis and 4,500 BEST buses are expected to ply. In Kalyan, the rickshaw union led by Shiv Sena leader Prakash Penkar is supporting the strike as also Shiv Vahtuk Sena that controls autos and taxis mainly in the eastern suburbs. Banks will function. "We will work but show our solidarity by wearing badges and holding morchas and demonstrations," said Devidas Tuljapurkar, general secretary of the Maharashtra State Bank Employees' Federation. Most retail shops will be open. "If any individual wants to keep a bandh, it's their call," said Viren Shah of the FRTWA. Extra police force of up to 600 constables and nine platoons of SRPF have been deployed in the city. "Forcible closure of establishments will not be allowed. Action will be taken," police said. Key farmer and trade unions in the state will hold demonstrations at district and tehsil headquarters. People's movements, women's groups and student associations are taking part too. (With inputs by BB Nayak, Pradeep Gupta, Bella Jaisinghani & Mateen Hafeez)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bharat-bandh-apmcs-closed-but-buses-cabs-to-run-in-mumbai/articleshow/79616539.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Terror plot: ISI henchman held in Dubai, 5 arrested in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s special cell has carried out an operation leading to the detention of most wanted gangster and ISI henchman Sukhmeet Pal Singh, alias Sukh Bhikhariwal, in Dubai, with assistance from UAE police, top sources have told TOI. Simultaneously, the special cell arrested two Punjab-based alleged assassins — who were in the end stage of executing the killing of a right-wing leader in the capital — along with three Kashmir-based Hizbul Mujahideen operatives from east Delhi early on Monday. Now, the intelligence establishment at the highest level is coordinating the deportation of Bhikhariwal. ‘ISI plan to use Khalistan, Kashmir links exposed’Bhikhariwal, sources said, was nabbed from a flat in Dubai after his location was confirmed by Delhi Police's sources deployed on ground. The cops said that this operation, which shows the growing cooperation between the two countries, has exposed the Pak spy agency's new plan of trying to use the Khalistan and Kashmir networks to revive extremism in Punjab and other parts of the country. In the past three years, UAE and Indian intelligence had coordinated on the arrest of AgustaWestland middleman Christian Michel and Rajiv Saxena, among others. While officials in Delhi Police remained tight-lipped on the UAE operation, they elaborated on the operation in Delhi saying they had averted a "slew of targeted killings" in the capital with these arrests. The cell had kicked off an operation in April this year after receiving inputs about targeted killings being planned and executed by the ISI through Bhikhariwal. "While these inputs were being developed, multiple teams were dispatched to Punjab, UP and Uttarakhand to collect specific information with active coordination and cooperation of central intelligence agencies," said DCP (special cell) Pramod Kushwaha. Last month, police commissioner S N Shrivastava had formed a crack team to carry out the operation. The team comprised encounter specialist ACPs Lalit Mohan Negi and Hriday Bhushan and inspectors Sunil Rajain, Ravinder Joshi and Vinay Pal to execute the last phase of the operation. A few days ago, an intercepted chatter suggested that Bhikhariwal had instructed his sharpshooters to commit another targeted killing of a right-wing leader in Delhi on the instructions of ISI. Bhikhariwal had further tasked them to meet some persons from Kashmir in east Delhi near the Ramesh Park bus stand, Shakarpur. The suspects, belonging to Hizbul Mujahideen, were to hand over cash to the assassins. Cops started to look out for a car with a J&K registration number. "Accordingly, a trap was laid. Around 6.45am, two cars were spotted near the place of information. The advance team immediately moved to verify the suspects. Sensing police presence, the suspects tried to flee by firing at the police party," DCP Kushwaha said. The police party too fired in self-defence. Both sharpshooters were nabbed along with their three Kashmiri associates. "The Kashmiri men were found in possession of 2kg of fine-quality heroin and Rs 1 lakh in cash. Three sophisticated pistols of different make were recovered from the two sharpshooter," Kushwaha added. The men from Punjab were identified as Gurjit Singh, alias Bhaa, and Sukhdeep Singh, alias Bhura, while the Kashmiri suspects were identified as Shabbir Ahmed, Ayub Pathan and Riyaz Rather. Pathan is claimed to have disclosed that he was working for Hizbul Mujahideen and his handler was his cousin, Abdul Majeed Khan, who is at present based in Rawalpindi and is a senior operative of Hizbul. Khan had introduced him to a Pakistan-based operative, codenamed "Sadakat", who is handling channelling of funds to India through narcoterrorism. "Sadakat tasked them to receive a consignment of narcotics and deliver it to his other contacts in Punjab,” DCP Kushwaha added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/terror-plot-isi-henchman-held-in-dubai-5-arrested-in-delhi/articleshow/79616532.cms||Raj Shekhar
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Water supply in south Delhi to be affected on today and tomorrow||NEW DELHI: Water supply in large parts of south Delhi are likely to be affected on Tuesday evening and Wednesday morning due to ongoing repair work of a water supply line near Delhi-Meerut highway. DJB has advised the residents to store sufficient water as per their requirement. The statement issued by the water utility stated that due to critical leakage repair work in south Delhi, main supply line near Yamuna Bridge on the Delhi-Meerut expressway under Sonia Vihar water treatment plant, the supply would not be available for this period in its command areas. “The shutdown will be from 9am-11pm on Tuesday, while morning supply on Wednesday will not be available,” DJB stated. The list of affected areas include Greater Kailash, Vasant Kunj, Kailash Nagar, Sarai Kale Khan, Lajpat Nagar, Moolchand, Ambedkar Nagar, Okhla, Panchsheel Park, Shahpur Jat, Kotla Mubarakpur, Sarita Vihar and parts of Siddharth Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/water-supply-in-south-delhi-to-be-affected-on-today-and-tomorrow/articleshow/79616522.cms||---
December 8, 2020||India||Noted Punjabi poet Surjit Patar to return Padma Shri||Punjabi poet Surjit Patar on Monday said he would return his Padma Shri award in solidarity with farmers. Patar, chairman of the Punjab Arts Council, received the Sahitya Akademi award in 1993 and Padma Shri in 2012. “I’m at pains to describe the way the central government is treating farmers. The government must listen to their miseries. I have taken the decision with a heavy heart,” he said. Former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal too has announced that he is returning his Padma Vibhushan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/noted-punjabi-poet-surjit-patar-to-return-padma-shri/articleshow/79616551.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Patients with post-Covid fibrosis responding to treatment, say docs||Panaji: After extended treatment for post-Covid fibrosis, several patients who initially complained of breathlessness following discharge have successfully recovered and joined work. Fibrosis occurs when lung tissue becomes damaged and scarred, making it more difficult for the lungs to function properly. Head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the GMC, Dr Durga Lawande, said these patients suffered from severe Covid pneumonia but made full recoveries after three months of extended treatment. “Patients are responding well to the extended treatment. This is good news for all of us as these were severe Covid pneumonia cases where the patients initially experienced breathlessness even at rest on discharge,” she said. Some patients, depending on the severity of their condition, continued to be administered steroids and anti-fibrotic drugs for around three months. Doctors who have been using anti-fibrotic drugs to treat lung fibrosis cases even before the spread of Covid-19, have found that the drugs’ efficacy has been better while treating people with Covid-19 as well as post-Covid patients. “We have been using anti-fibrotic drugs to prevent further development and progression of fibrosis during pre-Covid times, but these wouldn’t clear the fibrosis. Here, we have found that the drugs are helping patients a lot. When we repeated CT scans after three months, we noticed a marked improvement where at least 80% of the fibrosis has been cleared,” Lawande said. Some severe Covid pneumonia cases require hospital admission after discharge from Covid hospitals, while others are referred directly from Covid hospitals before discharge. They are administered injectable drugs while the rest, whose conditions are not so severe, are treated at the OPD level. Some even require extended oxygen therapy for a month. “We have seen patients who, initially after discharge, couldn’t walk small distances without becoming breathless because of fibrosis. Some have now successfully recovered after prolonged treatment,” Lawande said. The department’s OPD has also been seeing post-Covid patients present with anxiety, stress, depression and other psychological problems as a result of being in the ICU set-up for weeks. Fear of the unknown, being totally dependent on others, and the fear of Covid and death are among the other factors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/patients-with-post-covid-fibrosis-responding-to-treatment-say-docs/articleshow/79615243.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 8, 2020||India||Kerala to challenge new farm laws in Supreme Court: Agriculture minister||The LDF government in Kerala on Monday said it will not implement the farm reform laws but will challenge them in the Supreme Court within a week. State advocate general has been instructed to proceed in this regard. Agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar said the government will also explore the possibility of introducing alternative laws by invoking Article 304(3) of the Constitution. He said by passing these laws, the Centre has encroached upon the powers of the states bestowed by the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-to-challenge-new-farm-laws-in-supreme-court-agriculture-minister/articleshow/79616553.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Recoveries exceed new cases, active tally declines||Panaji: Goa’s tally of active cases dropped to 1,296 on Monday as recoveries exceeded new cases. As many as 154 recoveries and 90 new cases were reported, while the Covid-19 death toll rose to 702 with three casualties. Two men – a 78-year-old and a 71-year-old — who were detected having acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) shortly after admission to hospital, succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College and hospital. Both had more than one comorbidity. Besides this, a 76-year-old woman from Majorda having multiple comorbidities died after treatment of over 20 days at ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. As many as 41 patients were hospitalised during the day and 102 permitted to be in home isolation. With 1,575 samples tested, the positivity rate was pegged at 6% on Monday. Only four centres – Ponda, Margao, Panaji and Porvorim – continue to see some increase in new infections, albeit marginal. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that these are big centres having jurisdiction over larger areas vis-à-vis other centres. The new cases reported by them are few, nonetheless. Dr Betodkar said the state is witnessing a steady decline in new infections. However, it will continue to report 100 to150 infections a day in the days ahead. “The virus is still here, but the situation is under control,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recoveries-exceed-new-cases-active-tally-declines/articleshow/79615297.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Goa||Senior citizen raped by Chhattisgarh native||PANAJI: A senior citizen was raped by a 34-year-old native of Chhattisgarh. Agacaim PI Vijay Rane said that the incident took place around 14 days ago, but was not reported as the 65-year-old survivor lives alone and was scared to do so. The accused was arrested within 24 hours of registration of the crime. The accused, a coconut plucker, used the pretext of dropping the woman to her home after both had visited a coconut plantation belonging to her daughter. “A few kilometres from the coconut plantation, the accused took a different route and went into the jungle where he raped her,” Rane said. The Agacaim PI said that the accused and the survivor were neighbours and that a little over a fortnight ago the survivor had called for the accused to ask him to pluck coconuts. After visiting the plantation the accused told the survivor that he would do the plucking the following day, Rane said. That is when the accused offered to drop the survivor to her home, he said. The survivor was traumatised and did not reveal the incident to anyone, Rane said. However, the incident was known to the villagers, but not a single person came forward to inform the police, he said. Eventually, as the news of the incident spread in the village, one villager called the survivor’s daughter who lives abroad and narrated the incident to her. The survivor has two daughters one of whom lives abroad while the other lives in North Goa. Rane said that the plantation belonged to the daughter who lives aboard. “The daughter then lodged a complaint and a FIR was registered,” he said. Rane said that on the day of the rape itself, the accused along with his wife and children left the house where they lived. “It was a blind case. We worked day and night and traced the accused who was staying at Sulcorna, Quepem,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/senior-citizen-raped-by-chhattisgarh-native/articleshow/79615309.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Dense fog in Delhi, air quality severe||NEW DELHI: Thick blanket of fog covered parts of Delhi on Monday morning after the visibility dropped to zero at Palam station from 4.30am to 8.30am. This was the first time this winter when the visibility touched zero due to dense fog. Safadarjung, the capital’s base station, saw moderate fog with visibility of 300m in the morning. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD said, “As the easterly winds blew for two days, it caused an increase in moisture level causing dense fog. The wind direction changed from north westerly to easterly on Sunday afternoon, but moisture level went up in the past two days.” Track the pollution level in your cityIMD has forecast dense fog for Tuesday and moderate for Wednesday. On Monday, the minimum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while the maximum was 28.2 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal, at Safdarjung station. The Met official said both maximum and minimum temperatures were likely to stay above normal this week. The minimum is expected to hover around 11-12 degrees in the next five days, and may go up to 13° Celsius on December 12, while the maximum is likely to remain around 26-27° C. Delhi is expected to receive very light rain on December 11. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality remained in the higher end of ‘very poor’ category with an overall Air Quality Index of 400 on Monday, according to the data shared by CPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dense-fog-in-delhi-air-quality-severe/articleshow/79616504.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Consider having exam centre in Goa, nat’l open school told||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) to consider having an examination centre in Goa so that students have access to education. The division bench, comprising justices Mahesh Sonak and Manohar Jawalkar, was hearing a writ petition filed by Kavya Shetty, a resident of Davorlim, Salcete, stating that the institute denied her certification as she didn’t clear two subjects. The petitioner stated that she was unable to answer the theory papers of the March 2020 senior secondary course public examinations after it was postponed twice, and thereafter cancelled, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Consequently, the institute changed the assessment method vide a notification in July. Counsel for the petitioner Jatin Ramaiya pointed out that the notification is arbitrary to first-time learners, and it fixes an irrational and arbitrary criteria in allotment of theory marks based on three prior public examinations. The counsel also stated that the petitioner had urged the institute to reassess the marks/grades allotted to her, including those theory papers which were not conducted. Earlier the court had directed the NIOS to conduct an on-demand examination for Shetty. However, since there was no centre in Goa, she could not avail of such facility. Counsel for the institute informed the court that the next public examination, at which the petitioner can appear, will be held in January 2021. Although the examination date has not been finalised, she can apply for registration between November 23 and December 10, the counsel said. Whilst disposing off the petition, the court recorded its appreciation for advocate general Devidas Pangam, for extended financial aid to Shetty to enable her to pursue her education. The bench further observed, “According to us, though it may not be appropriate to issue any direction to have an examination centre in Goa, the institute must at least consider the feasibility of having such a centre in Goa so that not only the petitioner, but students similarly placed have access to education. We are sure that the institute will look into this aspect with the required seriousness and sensitivity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consider-having-exam-centre-in-goa-natl-open-school-told/articleshow/79615332.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Anti-coal protests won’t affect BJP in ZP polls: Tanavade||Panaji: Brushing aside any adverse effects of the ongoing anti-coal protests across the state, state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday exuded confidence that the party will win the forthcoming zilla panchayat (ZP) elections. Tanavade told reporters that voters are confident that BJP will resolve the coal issue and that it will not have any effect on the prospects of the party’s candidates contesting the polls. Chief minister Pramod Sawant also echoed similar sentiments. To a question on whether the coal issue will backfire on BJP in the polls, Tanavade said that there are a lot of political parties in the fray who want to launch their candidates. But in doing so, they have launched this agitation too early, and hence BJP is at an advantage as this will give us time to resolve the issue, he said. “Those who have joined this agitation belong to various political parties, and they have always opposed BJP,” he said. Tanavade also said that coal, power transmission line, double-tracking, and widening of the national highway are not new issues. “Congress is taking part in the agitation, but the same party had granted permissions to Adani and JSW for coal handling operations. Now they are regretting this, but we need some time to change their earlier decision,” Tanavade said. He said that BJP also has an advantage in the ZP election as its candidates were on the ground working during the lockdown. “We had organised various programmes with the intention of helping people,” he said. On the other hand, opposition parties’ candidates were not seen anywhere during the lockdown, Tanavade said. “After the election commission announced the Bihar elections, we realised that ZP elections will be held in Goa. During the past two months, our candidates have been on the ground,” the state BJP president said, adding, “Looking at our work, people of the state will vote for BJP.” Voting for the ZP election will be held on December 12, while counting will be held on December 14, announced Goa State Election Commission on Saturday. The election, earlier scheduled in March, was postponed due to the pandemic. The election would be held in 48 seats out of 50 seats. People without face masks will not be allowed to vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-coal-protests-wont-affect-bjp-in-zp-polls-tanavade/articleshow/79615374.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||On ZP trail, Cong, MGP look to ride together to overcome BJP’s organisational might||Panaji: In order to challenge the BJP in the zilla panchayat election, Congress is working on a tacit understanding with MGP, NCP and in some constituencies even AAP, the party said on Monday. The party’s Morjim candidate, Mahesh Konadkar, came out in support of MGP candidate Shidhar Manjrekar, while MGP is likely to support the Congress candidate for Arambol. “It is important for all Goans to unite and ensure that the ZP candidates fielded by BJP and its allies are defeated,” said state party president Girish Chodankar. “Congress is also extending support to some candidates in a few constituencies who have strong winning chances, to ensure that there is no division of votes favouring BJP. Our sole aim is to defeat BJP and its allies and save Goa from destruction.” Leader of the opposition, Digambar Kamat, Chodankar and other party office-bearers have been holding meetings at a feverish pace over the past few days to hammer out the collaborations. Despite the back-channel talks, Congress and MGP are competing in some constituencies. The party met with 16 of its North Goa ZP candidates to take stock of preparations for the December 12 elections. Former chief minister Pratapsingh Rane and North Goa Congress president Vijay Bhike were present for the meeting, where they reviewed the party’s strategy for the election. The party is confident that it can overcome the organisational might of the BJP. Rane has appealed to voters to participate in the elections and support Congress candidates. “The time has now come to bring change in Goa to facilitate revival of the economy and plan for the betterment of the state,” the Poriem Congress MLA said. A similar meeting for South Goa ZP candidates was held a day earlier in Margao. “We are all confident of our victory and we are committed to be the voice of the people to protect the identity of Goa. BJP has already begun with its dirty tricks, but the people of Goa have now realised their true colours,” the party said in a statement. Kamat, who also met the ZP candidates, said that the recent agitations, particularly the protests surrounding the Mollem projects, prove that BJP has lost people’s trust. “The people of Goa will give a befitting reply to BJP’s false promises on restart of mining, providing employment and reviving the economy,” said Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-zp-trail-cong-mgp-look-to-ride-together-to-overcome-bjps-organisational-might/articleshow/79615377.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||‘All highway projects to be ready by June next year’||Panaji: Director general for the ministry of road transport and highways, I K Pandey, was in Goa on Sunday to review the status of all ongoing highway expansion and upgradation projects. Pandey said that all ongoing work on the highway projects will be completed by June 2021. “Regular reviews are being taken to see if there is any problem and how quickly these projects can be completed. All projects in Goa are slated to be completed by June 2021. After the review I am confident that these works will be completed very soon,” said the director general for the ministry of road transport and highways. Massive highway expansion work, covering 135km of roads in Goa, is in the advanced stages. The highway expansion work will also bring in a new bridge at Colvale. Under the multi-crore highway expansion project, the national highway is slated to be widened from its current two-lane structure to four lanes. This will allow vehicles to cruise at a speed of 80 to 100 kmph. The project will link the states of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka starting at Patradevi on the Maharashtra-Goa border to Polem on the Goa-Karnataka border, which will be of a total length of 135km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-highway-projects-to-be-ready-by-june-next-year/articleshow/79597983.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Special ferry rate reduced, to now cost Rs 100 per trip||240 words. Edited Times News Network Panaji: The government has decided to reduce the rate for special ferry services on all routes, except the Cortalim-Madkai route, from Rs 250 to Rs 100 per trip. Following discontentment among the public about the enhanced rate, minister for river navigation Milind Naik had moved a note to chief minister Pramod Sawant to reduce the fare. The same has been approved by the chief minister, an official said. Villagers of Chorao had moved the high court of Bombay at Goa after the river navigation department raised the fare for special trips from Rs 50 to 250 earlier this year. Special trips are conducted when regular ferry service is halted. The villagers said that the rate was raised without considering any factors and done in an “arbitrary manner” and hence, the order hiking the fare should be revoked. The ferry being the only medium of transport to reach the mainland, the fare hike especially affected people working the night shift who had to shell out Rs 250 a trip either to return to the island or go out. Villagers who had to leave the island at odd hours in the event of an emergency, too, were left with no choice but to pay Rs 250 for a special trip. The villagers have for long been demanding a bridge to enable them to travel without hassle. The petition was filed since the river navigation department has not considered this request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-ferry-rate-reduced-to-now-cost-rs-100-per-trip/articleshow/79615384.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sion kicks off Covaxin trial with at least 6 volunteers||MUMBAI: Even as Bharat Biotech from Hyderabad, which is developing Covaxin, applied to the Drug Controller of India for an emergency use authorisation, Sion hospital confirmed that its trial had just kicked off. The hospital is one of the two trial sites for Covaxin and is supposed to recruit 1,000 participants to study the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. JJ Hospital in Byculla is the other trial site. Dr N T Awad, head of respiratory medicine at Sion hospital, confirmed that the trial started on Saturday after the vaccine doses arrived. "Six to seven participants have got the first dose," he said. JJ Hospital has already recruited over 50 participants. Alongside trials, preparations for storage have also begun. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the four medical colleges - KEM, Sion, Nair and Cooper - would be able to store up to 1.5 lakh vials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sion-kicks-off-covaxin-trial-with-at-least-6-volunteers/articleshow/79616585.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh: Commuters pin hopes on Metro in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Commuters in Delhi are likely to face a tough time on Tuesday with many app-based cabs and autorickshaws keeping off the roads in solidarity with the protesting farmers, who have called for a Bharat Bandh against the Centre’s new farm laws. Delhi NCR’s lifeline — Delhi Metro — will, however, remain fully operational with train services on all corridors. The combined fleet of Delhi Transport Corporation and Cluster Scheme buses will also run as usual. An official of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said that train services would be available as usual, including on the sections connecting the capital with NCR towns. The combined fleet of 6,601 DTC and Cluster Scheme buses will also be deployed on the capital’s roads, even though DTC has not been operating any inter-state buses since the protests by farmers at border points began affecting traffic movement between Delhi and its neighbouring states. Those who depend on app-based cabs or autorickshaws for their commuting are, however, likely to face a dip in availability of these, with some unions supporting the bandh. “We have decided to support the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday and our drivers will not ply their cabs but support the bandh peacefully. Ola and Uber taxis will not operate in Delhi-NCR on Tuesday,” said Kamaljeet Gill, president, Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association of Delhi. Although app-based aggregators Ola and Uber refused to reply to queries sent by TOI regarding availability of cabs on Tuesday, according to sources in the companies, availability of cabs in Delhi NCR is likely to be a problem due to Bharat Bandh. A source in one of the companies said, “We are plying tomorrow and it is normal for us everywhere but we have told our drivers to be cautious. However, compared with other cities, Delhi-NCR will probably be the worst affected due to the protests by farmers at the city’s border points.” Auto and taxi unions, however, are divided on the question of support for the nationwide closure. “We fully support the call for Bharat Bandh by farmers and on Tuesday, kaali peeli taxis, tourist taxis, tourist buses and cabs plying on Ola and Uber platforms will not operate on Tuesday,” declared Sanjay Samrat, president, Delhi Taxi Tourist Transporters Association. Some other auto unions also said they would support the bandh and their members would keep their vehicles off the roads. In contrast, Rajendra Soni, general secretary of the Delhi Auto Rickshaw Sangh and Delhi Pradesh Taxi Union, insisted that autorickshaws and kaali peeli taxis, particularly those operating from Indira Gandhi International Airport, will run as usual. Watch Bharat Bandh: Delhi Metro to remain fully operational with train services on all corridors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commuters-pin-hopes-on-metro-in-delhi/articleshow/79616513.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SC irked with government work on Central Vista amid petitions||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday expressed displeasure over the Centre going ahead with the Central Vista project despite the matter being in court and judgment reserved on pleas seeking scrapping of the plan. The SC though allowed the foundation-laying programme for the project after the Union government assured that no construction will be carried out without its approval. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, which had on November 5 reserved its verdict on the project, took suo motu cognisance of reports that construction will start after PM Narendra Modi lays the foundation stone for the new Parliament building on December 10. But Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured that no construction work would start till the matter is adjudicated by the court. “This matter was listed suo motu in view of certain developments...,” the SC said. 10 bldgs to be razed for Central VistaAfter interacting with the solicitor general and when the concern of the court was expressed, on instructions, the solicitor general stated that there will be no construction activity of any nature on the concerned site(s) nor demolition of any structure will be done, including further trans-location of tree(s) will be kept in abeyance, until the pronouncement of judgement in all these cases. We take that statement on record. In view of the above, we clarify that the authorities would be free to continue with procedural processes without altering the status of the site(s) in question in any manner, including to continue with the scheduled programme of foundation stone-laying on December 10," the bench said. The apex court has already reserved its verdict on a batch of petitions challenging the Centre's decision to construct a new Parliament building, central secretariat as well as office premises for ministries under the Central Vista Plan. The Central Vista redevelopment plan involves demolition of around 10 buildings, including Shastri Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, Vice-President’s House and Lok Nayak Bhavan. It is planned that a common central secretariat complex and a new Parliament building would be constructed. It envisages a new triangular Parliament building, with seating capacity for 900 to 1,200 MPs, expected to be constructed by August 2022 when the country will celebrate 75 years of independence. The common central secretariat building is likely to be ready by 2024. The sanction of Central Vista plan has been challenged on various grounds, including that the environmental impact assessment was not done and that it was approved in a haste without seeking views from the general public and getting approval from the heritage committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-irked-with-government-work-on-central-vista-amid-petitions/articleshow/79616516.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Missing antibodies does not mean loss of immunity, say experts citing study||BENGALURU: A US-based study that individuals exposed to Covid-19 can have a fairly long immune response has sparked guarded hope among experts involved in managing the pandemic in the state, as they feared immunity would be short-lived since many infected people had no antibodies. Dr V Ravi, former head of neurovirology, Nimhans, said the study revealed most people — not everybody — showed an immune response against the infection after recovery. However, the study is awaiting peer review and publication in a scientific journal. “The study shows that while antibodies wane, the immune cell response is present and this is very encouraging,” said Dr Ravi. “We hope it will last long.” Conducted by researchers at the Centre for Infectious Diseases and Vaccine Research, La Jolla Institute of Immunology, California, the study claims memory cells help people who have recovered from an infection fend off another attack even six months after the initial infection. In 90% of the respondents of 185 recovered patients, immune memory consisting of three immunological compartments was measurable even five months later, indicating that durable immunity against Covid-19 is a possibility. Although there have been suspected reinfections across the state, they comprise less than 1% of the total cases, points out Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and member of the state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee. “Although the study is pending peer review, I am relieved that immunity lasts long and it will settle at least some unresolved questions,” Dr Babu said. “It’s wrong to say the absence of antibodies implies no protection. Antibodies will wane, but memory cells will remain intact.” He said this means that the immune system will remember the previous infection and mount a response when next exposed to the virus. “That’s a sign of real protection,” Dr Babu said. “Antibodies for any disease will not remain in the blood forever.” Dr Deepak Sehgal, professor and head, department of Life Sciences, Shiv Nadar University, Greater Noida, concurred with Dr Babu, saying there is a high similarity between SARS that broke in 2002 and the ongoing pandemic. “Though antibodies may reduce over the years, memory cells in the immune system are activated when there is an exposure for the second time,” Dr Sehgal said. However, he admitted the US-based study does not have scientific reference yet to prove its point. Different strainsDr Sehgal quotes a 2007 study by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), US, that said reinfection was possible for severe acute respiratory syndrome after three years. Researchers had studied 176 people who had SARS and noticed that they harboured specific antibodies for an average two years. There was a significant reduction in immunoglobulin in the third year. The study suggested people may be susceptible to reinfection after three years of initial exposure, he said. Dr Sehgal said Covid-19 reinfections are possible since the chances of different strains of the virus infecting people in different episodes are high. He said different strains will have different levels of infectivity. “There are similarities between SARS and the current pandemic,” Dr Sehgal said. “It is said that there are 16 different strains of SARS-CoV2 across the world so far. Though there is no proof, it is possible reinfections can occur. The strains of the virus affecting a person in two different episodes could be different.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-missing-antibodies-does-not-mean-loss-of-immunity-say-experts-citing-study/articleshow/79616593.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 8, 2020||Goa||‘Forest claims by Netravali tribals to be disposed of within three months’||Poinguinim: Setting up of the special court at the premises of Netravali government high school to settle the forest rights claims of the villagers has brought them some relief. The villagers residing in the area of this remote wildlife sanctuary had to travel nearly 30 to 35 kilometres all these years to get their forest right claims settled, which led to the issues dragging on for decades. The tribals said they are now able to follow up their cases in a better way. Deputy Collector for Sanguem Ajay Gaude, who has been empowered to settle the tribals’ forest rights claims, has assured the villagers inhabiting Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary that the special court under him will be holding sittings every Tuesday and Friday to dispose of their claims at the earliest. Gaude told TOI that he has asked the forest department to produce their plans with respect to Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary and said that the concerned villagers have already produced relevant documents on their part. Therefore, the orders in a majority of the cases can be expected to be pronounced within two to three months’ time, Gaude said. More than 700 cases in Sanguem under the Forest Rights Act 2006 are waiting to be disposed of since the implementation of the Act in the state in 2012. Until the special court was set up, the hearings were taking place at the deputy collector’s office in Sanguem. Gaude said that of the 1,220 cases pertaining to the whole of Sanguem, around 500 cases have already been disposed of and the remaining, connected particularly to tribals of Netravali Wildlife Sanctuary, are waiting to be disposed of. The majority of the cases pertaining to tribals from the sanctuary area are connected to the forest land where they have been undertaking agricultural plantations for the last 50 years or more and some families for around 100 years, Gaude added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-claims-by-netravali-tribals-to-be-disposed-of-within-three-months/articleshow/79614551.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Algal blooms withdraw from Canacona coast, tourists return||Poinguinim: Sea water along the Canacona coast, which had turned green and foamy recently due to algal blooms, has begun to normalise in appearance. The stench emanating from the water is also nearly gone. However, some clumps of seaweed have now washed up along the coast, but tourist activities have resumed. Close on the heels of algal blooms invading the Canacona coastline, seaweed was seen along the shoreline on beaches such as Agonda, on Sunday afternoon. At first, there were apprehensions among locals on whether it is harmful. But by Monday activities on the taluka’s beaches had normalised. Godwin Fernandes from Agonda said that some waste had been deposited on the beach in the form of rotting seaweed, but tourists had begun returning to the shoreline. “There is total normalcy on the beach and tourists as well as locals are seen walking on the beach and even venturing into the water, which is clear like before,” said Simon Fernandes from Palolem. Nearly half of the shoreline at Agonda had a seaweed known as Sargassum strewn across it. Some tourists were still apprehensive about venturing into the water seeing this sight as first algal blooms and later dead jelly fish had turned up on the coast along Canacona on December 3 and 4. While the algal blooms gave out a stench, even jelly fish are known to sting. In addition, there were also incidents of dead fish washing ashore at Polem, Agonda, Patnem and Khola. Therefore, initially many tourists had remained cautious on seeing the seaweed till they realised that it was not harmful. Sargassum is learnt to inhabit shallow waters and coral reefs. It can be harmless to humans but once it is washes ashore it starts decomposing and can be hazardous to human health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/algal-blooms-withdraw-from-canacona-coast-tourists-return/articleshow/79614568.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Positivity rate lowest in six months, rush in hospitals eases||NEW DELHI: The positivity rate of Covid-19 touched 3.15%, the lowest in nearly six months, on Monday. This was also the seventh day running when the positivity rate — number of positive cases from those tested — remained below 5%. The positivity rate on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday was 4.96%, 4.78%, 4.2% and 3.68%, respectively. “In a month positivity declined to 3.15% today from 15.26% on 7th Nov. During the same period RTPCR positivity reduced to 6.68% from 30.20%. Lowest positivity rate in the last six months. Steadily corona cases and positivity coming down. Hope this will continue. Please observe all precautions (sic),” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain wrote on twitter. Public health specialists say declining positivity rate signals ebbing of the third wave of the infection outbreak in the national capital. On Monday, Delhi recorded 1,674 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total infection tally in the state to over 5.93 lakh. The positive cases came from 53,207 tests — 21,362 RTPCR and 31,845 rapid antigen tests — conducted in the last 24 hours. Sixty-three fatalities were recorded in the past 24 hours, pushing the death toll in the national capital to 9,706. The tally of active cases on Monday dropped to 22,486 from 24,693 the previous day. The number of active cases has been dipping constantly because the number of patients recovering has been more than new cases for nearly a fortnight. On Monday too, new cases were 1,674 and recovered patients were 3,818. Dr Suresh Kumar, the medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said stricter enforcement of rules to wear masks in public places was one of the key actions that helped in controlling the outbreak. “Aggressive testing and treatment also played a key role,” he added. The dip in cases, Dr Kumar added, has helped reduce the rush in hospitals. Lok Nayak Hospital, which has 2,000 reserved beds for Covid-19 patients, had 1,645 vacant beds on Monday. At AIIMS Trauma Centre, Safdarjung, GTB and Apollo hospitals also, there were 77, 264, 1256 and 123 vacant beds respectively for Covid-19 patients. In total, the real-time data shared by the hospitals on the Delhi Corona App showed 12,896 out of 18,813 Covid-19 beds were vacant. Total 2,258 ICU beds – 484 with ventilators and 1,774 without ventilators – were also vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-lowest-in-six-months-rush-in-hospitals-eases/articleshow/79616601.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||ATS and NSG anti-terror exercise on||Panaji: An anti-terror exercise is being conducted jointly in the state by the National Security Guard (NSG) and anti-terrorist squad (ATS) of Goa police. On the first day, three dummy bombs planted at various locations in the state were defused. North and south district police, fire and emergency services, ambulance and the local administration are also participating in the exercise. Around 500 NSG commandos from across the country are participating along with around 1,000 Goa police personnel, including ATS. “NSG and Goa police are carrying out a multi-day, multiple-target exercise,” sources said, adding that capability and preparedness of Goa police will be checked through this exercise. A similar exercise was conducted in 2018. Sources said Goa is always on high alert due to its popularity as a top international tourist destination, and such exercises help as a confidence building measure. The dummy bombs were planted near Miramar beach, secretariat at Porvorim and Kala Academy, Panaji. The exercise is also conducted at vital installations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ats-and-nsg-anti-terror-exercise-on/articleshow/79614586.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Panaji’s zebra crossings being redone after 5 yrs||Panaji: After five years of being neglected, roads across Panaji were marked with zebra crossings in an effort to implement traffic regulations. Six zebra crossings were painted starting from Down the Road near the old Patto bridge at Panaji till Customs House. Another 29 will be painted across the city in this week. Other essential markings, like those for two-wheelers and four-wheelers, were also painted by the pay parking contractor hired by the Corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP). A total of 35 zebra crossings across the city were in urgent need of repainting due to weathering. While they are in the process of being freshly painted, pedestrians may still require assistance from traffic police for safe passage. The CCP is contemplating writing to the traffic cell to depute officers at these crossings to ensure that motorists do not speed on the roads approaching these crossings. Signage boards are also likely to be replaced, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panajis-zebra-crossings-being-redone-after-5-yrs/articleshow/79614591.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Goa||Goa Diary introduces 450ml pack||Ponda: To prevent hassles for consumers over tendering the exact change, Goa Diary is introducing a 450ml pack of toned milk for Rs 20. This is in addition to its existing 500ml pack. The half litre packet is priced at Rs 22 and Goa Diary received reports of some petty quarrels over the Rs 2 change experienced by some dealers. “Considering this, we decided to launch a new pack that would round up the rate to Rs 20”, Durgesh Shirodkar, chairman of the dairy administrative committee, said. The dairy had been selling four variants – full cream (orange packet), standardized milk ‘Shakti’ (green packet), cow milk (red packet) and toned milk with a brand name ‘Cold Gold’ (blue packets) in Goan retail market. While full cream costs Rs 55 per liter, Shakti is priced at Rs 25 for 500 ml. The cow milk rate is Rs 23 per 500 ml packet and Cold Gold will now be available at Rs 22 for 500 ml and at Rs 20 per new 450 ml pack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-diary-introduces-450ml-pack/articleshow/79614600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Didi takes stock of E Midnapore, may join public outreach event||Midnapore: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to participate in the government’s public outreach programme, Duare Sarkar, on Tuesday to get feedback from the grassroots on the public delivery system on the Adhikari turf in Midnapore. The Trinamool Congress chief gathered inputs on party organization from party leaders in the evening after Suvendu Adhikari posters made an overnight appearance in Midnapore town on the day of the CM’s public rally. Banerjee stayed back in Midnapore for a day, after her rally on Monday, to talk to party leaders and MLAs when rebel Suvendu, who is Nandigram MLA, his brother and Trinamool MP Dibyendu Adhikari and Uttar Kanthi MLA Banasree Maity were among prominent rally absentees. Suvendu left his Kanthi home soon after Banerjee began her speech but didn’t make it to the rally. “Trinamool’s East Midnapore president Sisir Adhikari is sick. Two MLAs, Sudarshan Ghosh Dastidar and Jyotirmoy Kar, too are sick. We had a total 13 party MLAs from East Midnapore; of them, one died, bringing down the tally to 12. Two are not keeping well. A total eight MLAs turned up for Mamata Banerjee’s meeting today, leaving out the two absentees,” said Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri. When Trinamool’s Sabang MLA Nirmal Ghosh wanted to talk to Banerjee as she was coming down from the dais, the party chief asked him to come to the Midnapore Circuit House along with others. Later in the evening, district leaders and party MLAs called on the Trinamool chief to confirm their allegiance to her. At the interaction, Banerjee sought information about the party organization in the district. According to Trinamool insiders, some organizational changes and also in Midnapore zilla parishad are on the way. For instance, Trinamool’s Midnapore spokesperson Debashis Chowdhury, alias Munmun, is tipped for the party’s district general secretary post. He was also asked to oversee party organisation in Jhargram following the wrangle he had had with Trinamool’s Kharagpur MLA Pradip Sarkar. Banerjee also updated herself about the activities of Suvendu-loyalist zilla parishad functionaries Rama Prasad Giri and Amulya Maity. Trinamool’s West Midnapore president Ajit Maity said the party chief held a discussion with some of them. “She has asked me to involve Congress-turned-Trinamool leader Hema Choubey in party activities in Kharagpur and make her the Yuva Trinamool vice-president. Debashis Chowdhury is to be the district general secretary. These apart, there have been a few decisions that will be carried out in future,” Maity said, without a word on disciplinary action against “gaddars” (traitors) Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha member Manas Bhuniya swore at in the CM’s rally. Before meeting MLAs and party organizers, Banerjee paid a visit to the bereaved family of TMC old guard and former MLA Mrigen Maity, who passed away on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didi-takes-stock-of-e-midnapore-may-join-public-outreach-event/articleshow/79615497.cms||Sujoy Khanra
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal in SC against HC’s CAG Amphan audit order||Kolkata: The Bengal government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the Calcutta high court order directing the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) to conduct “financial audit and performance audit” of Amphan relief fund utilisation in Bengal within the next three months. The Calcutta HC had on Friday rejected a state appeal for a revision of the order seeking to allow the state government some time before the CAG audits. Samik Bagchi, petitioner Khayirul Sk’s lawyer, said they have also filed a caveat in the apex court and therefore they will also be heard. The HC, while seeking the CAG audit last Tuesday, left it to the Centre and state to decide on how to act if it traced any fault. The HC, however, made it clear that the order will not impede the continuing Amphan relief measures either by Bengal or other authorities. The high court said it was confident Bengal will cooperate with CAG for the two-tier audit. The HC also extended the audit ambit to enquire into allegations in a PIL that “the list of Amphan relief beneficiaries shown on the website of the State Government does not reflect the true state of affairs”. The HC said the Centre and the state were free to submit all relevant materials and records to the CAG “for consideration”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-in-sc-against-hcs-cag-amphan-audit-order/articleshow/79615523.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker dies in Siliguri cop clash||SILIGURI/JALPAIGURI: A BJP supporter died in Siliguri after thousands of party workers and cops battled on the streets of north Bengal’s biggest city for nearly three hours on Monday during the BJP’s march on state secretariat Uttarkanya. BJP leaders alleged 44-year-old Ullen Roy died of police lathi-charge and pellet wounds. The party called a 12-hour bandh in north Bengal on Tuesday and demanded “President’s Rule in Bengal”, a CBI probe into the death and a stop to “police atrocities”. Party seniors later met state governor Jagdeep Dhankhar in Kolkata and demanded “an impartial probe into the death”. Bengal police officials denied any lathi-charge or use of firearms, claimed cops “showed restraint” but said water cannons and tear gas were used to disperse “the violent crowd” that indulged in “arson, brick-batting, firing and vandalism of government property”. “The actual cause of death will be known only after a post-mortem,” the police statement said, prompting BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvar-giya to demand videography of the post-mortem probe and a magisterial inquest. The Trinamool Congress accused the BJP of using violence as “a political weapon” in the run-up to the 2021 state election. “Every loss of life is sad. But the BJP is indulging in guns-and-goons politics. Rallyists carried firearms and vandalised property and instigated violence during a pandemic,” Trinamool Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar said, adding: “They will sacrifice their own worker’s life for publicity.” Two BJP Yuva Morcha rallies started around 1 p.m. from Jalpai More and the Jalpaiguri-Siliguri border. The first headed towards Teen Batti and was led by central leader Vijayvargita and state leaders Mukul Roy and Soumitra Khan; the second, in which Ullen Roy was there, headed towards Fulbari and was led by state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh. The marchers met police barricades at Teen Batti and Fulbari about half-an-hour later but the scale of violence was “far greater” at Fulbari, cops said. Rallyists set on fire two police bikes and a police-requisitioned bus, prompting cops to start firing rubber pellets. “Cops were using water cannons before that but they proved ineffective,” a senior official said, adding that four cops, too, were injured in the violence. Among the protesters here was Ullen from Jalpaiguri. He first fell on the ground after a lathi-charge by cops, BJP state chief Ghosh said, adding that he was taken to a nursing home where he died of his injuries. Ullen’s wife, Malati, said he sold tea leaves and worked in tea gardens. “He had a rice-and-fish meal in the morning and told us he would return after the rally to get our daughter, Chintaman, admitted to class V at a school in Lalitabari,” she said. The couple have two more children, Buddhadeb and Sagar. “He died of pellet wounds. I do not know what I will do without him,” Malati said. Cops accused BJP workers of committing “serious acts of violence” but BJP leaders Ghosh and Vijayvargiya said 39 of their supporters were injured and had to be treated in hospital. “Cops launched a Nandigram-style attack on BJP supporters,” Ghosh said. “One can understand the politicisation of police but the criminalisation of politics is beyond tolerance,” Vijayvargiya added. But state tourism minister Gautam Deb accused the BJP of “endangering life”. “It can resort to anything for political benefits,” he added. Governor Dhankhar later said in Kolkata that the administration and police “must desist from a partisan stance and act in a politically neutral manner”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-worker-dies-in-siliguri-cop-clash/articleshow/79615519.cms||Roshan Gupta
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||Cracks in opposition unity, Mamata Banerjee not to support bandh||KOLKATA: Cracks have emerged within the opposition ranks as the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday said it will not support the ‘Bharat Bandh’ and asked its workers to stay away. The TMC has been at the forefront in opposing the farm laws in Parliament. It has also lent its support to the protests by the farmers but has decided not to go with Tuesday’s Bharat Bandh call. Party MP Saugata Roy on Monday said, “TMC stands in solidarity with the farmers, but will not support the Bharat Bandh in West Bengal as it goes against our principles.” Earlier, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee had tweeted, “I am very much concerned about the farmers, their lives and livelihood. GOI must withdraw the anti-farmer bills. If they do not do so immediately we will agitate throughout the state and the country. From the very start, we have been strongly opposing these anti-farmer bills.” The bandh has found support from the Congress, SP, DMK, RJD, PAGD, NCP, CPI, CPM, CPI-ML, RSP, AIFB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-lends-support-to-farmers-cause-party-to-hit-streets-but-govt-against-bandhs/articleshow/79615525.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Health scheme to come closer home to address Covid fears||Kolkata: The Bengal government’s Duare Sarkar programme — including Swasthya Sathi, the state’s universal health coverage scheme — is set to literally go door-to-door, in order to avoid overcrowding at camps set up for the purpose. Acting on concerns that citizens’ response to the programme has led to serpentine queues at neighbourhood camps, which could lead to a spike in Covid cases, the government announced on Monday alternative methods of reaching out to people, including delivery of forms at home and even downloading them from the government’s Egiye Bangla portal. Since the Duare Sarkar programme was launched last week, over 31 lakh people have queued up at the ward-level camps to avail themselves of the bouquet of 11 government benefit schemes. In urban areas, particularly Kolkata, Swasthya Sathi — which offers a family floater policy with annual coverage up to Rs 5 lakh — has proved to be especially popular. Though ward coordinators and civic officials have been trying to maintain Covid norms, it has been virtually impossible to do so because of the number of people turning up. Sources in the government said a plan was in the works to dispatch forms from local ward offices to homes in the ward so that people didn’t have to physically queue up. The government was also looking at setting up drop boxes for submitting filled-in forms, and even an online option. Piyali Paul, a homemaker at Parnashree who queued up for four hours on Sunday, felt home delivery of forms would be a huge help. “It’s not just Covid. I feel excruciating pain if I stand for long. If the form is delivered home, we could fill it in and submit it,” she said. In some wards, the outreach to citizens’ homes started on Thursday. According to Tapan Dasgupta, the borough X ward coordinator, given the rise in expectation of residents in large areas of Baghajatin, Pallisree, Golf Garden, Bijoygarh, Azadgargh and other neighbourhoods in Tollygunge, he had to deliver Swasthya Sathi forms door-to-door so that applicants could be handed over health insurance cards at KMC-organized camps held between Friday and Sunday. “People, particularly senior citizens, were getting impatient in the queue. We recognized the problem and decided to spare them the trouble by delivering the forms home,” Dasgupta said. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of Board of Administrators that governs KMC, toured large areas of Chetla on Thursday distributing Swasthya Sathi forms to households. Ward coordinators have been also asked to accompany civic volunteers to deliver Swasthya Sathi cards to households. The health card is being issued in the name of the seniormost woman member of the family. Names of other members of the family are added as beneficiaries. If the woman head of family is a senior citizen, another family member can attend the camp with copies of Aadhaar card, voter card and photo identity card. Demand for Khadya Sathi (ration card) and other vital civic services, including mutation of properties, was also rising, said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-health-scheme-to-come-closer-home-to-address-cov-fears/articleshow/79615626.cms||Debasish Konar
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Doctors on Covid duty, 63 newborns died in Sagar hospital in 3 months||BHOPAL: Sixty-three newborns — nearly 30% of those admitted —died in Bundelkhand Medical College in Sagar, Madhya Pradesh, between September and November, coinciding with the diversion of paediatric specialists to handle the Covid surge in the district. The spike in neonatal deaths has set alarm bells ringing, especially in the wake of baby deaths in Shahdol hospital. Officials told TOI that the hospital management now plans to withdraw some child specialists from Covid duty and put them back in paediatric care and neonatal ICU (NICU). Sagar divisional commissioner Mukesh Kumar Shukla told TOI that doctors in the special newborn care unit (SNCU) would be spared Covid duty so that they can monitor child care. Since the hospital caters to people from surrounding districts as well, some children are already critically ill and don’t survive. But the deaths in these three months were higher than average, say doctors. Worrying numbers: Newborn fatality rate at 29.3% at Sagar hospitalTwenty per cent deaths are acceptable but it went up to 28-32%,” a doctor said. The national neonatal mortality rate in 2018 was around 18%, and Madhya Pradesh’s much higher at 26%. At 29.3%, the newborn death rate at this hospital is alarming. The SNCU at this hospital started on August 15 at the height of the Coronavirus pandemic. After the retirement of the head of the paediatrics department, there is no professor to lead it. In fact, the advertisement for this post was released on Monday, said medical college sources. Admissions rose in October and November, so did deaths. While admissions rose by around82% between September and November, neonatal deaths shot up by over 107%. This alarming spurt was noticed when the government called for data from all hospitals after 13 newborns died in Shahdol District Hospital in eight days. Sagar is the divisional headquarters of Bundelkhand, known for its backwardness and high incidence of malnutrition among lactating mothers and newborns. Two days ago, the dean of the medical college, Dr R S Verma, set up a committee for the “death audit”. Dr Abhay S Tirki, professor of medicine, heads the panel, which comprises Dr Satyendra Uike, assistant professor-anesthesia, Dr Ashish Jain, n assistant professor-pediatrics and Dr Priyanka Tiwari, assistant professor-gynaecology. The team is likely to submit its report on Tuesday. “Many children are admitted in serious condition after they are referred from other regions of Sagar. Many of them are underweight,” the dean said, adding: “Though we have MBBS doctors, there is a shortage of PG doctors. Efforts are on to improve the condition.” Divisional commissioner Shukla said, “We all are concerned over the deaths. It’s a 10-bed ward but the number of neonatal patients sometimes rises to twice its capacity, making it difficult to monitor them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-doctors-on-covid-duty-63-newborns-died-in-sagar-hospital-in-3-months/articleshow/79616650.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Two cops held for bid to swap DNA sample in rape case||UJJAIN: In a shocking attempt at coverup, two police constables in Ujjain allegedly tried to tamper with the semen sample of a colleague who is accused of rape. They tried to replace his sperm sample with that of a maternal cousin, say police. The fraud was foiled by a woman subinspector, who was waiting outside the collection room and noticed that someone other than the accused had slipped in, wearing a surgical mask. TOI is withholding the name of the rape-accused cop as it may lead to identification of the survivor. The two other constables — Tabrez Khan of Mahila Thana and Ghanshyam Malviya of Neelganga police station — have been arrested and suspended, said Ujjain SP Satyendra Shukla. They face a departmental probe. The cousin and ward boy Jagdish Kanosia, who allegedly helped in the coverup bid, have been arrested as well. “Sub-inspector Hemlata Bhil, who was sent to oversee the evidence collection process, objected when she saw a man, other than the accused, entering the sample collection room,” additional SP Amrendra Singh told TOI. Constables tried to help accused’s kin escapeThe rape-accused cop, who was posted at Neelganga police station, was arrested a couple of days ago after his neighbour filed a complaint that he had developed sexual relations with her on the pretext of marriage, but was getting engaged elsewhere. She underwent a medical examination and swabs were collected as evidence. On Monday, SI Bhil took the accused cop to the district hospital for collection of semen and blood samples. Constables Khan and Malviya had gone along as guards. She kept a watch outside the collection room, as the constables took their accused colleague inside. She noticed that another man, wearing a mask, was trying to sneak in. She immediately challenged him, and commotion broke out. Constables Khan and Malviya allegedly tried to help the cousin escape. “As soon as the alarm was raised, a police team was sent to the hospital. The cousin was caught inside the sample collection room,” ASP Singh said. He turned out to be the accused’s maternal cousin, who had come from Shajapur, about 65km away. He had hoped the mask would hide his identity but couldn’t get past SI Bhil’s vigil. “The accused have been booked for criminal conspiracy, cheating, impersonation, furnishing false information and attempting to make evidence disappear,” Singh said. They were produced in court, which remanded them in jail. Samples of the rape accused were later collected in the presence of senior officers and sent to forensic laboratory for tests. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-two-cops-held-for-bid-to-swap-dna-sample-in-rape-case/articleshow/79616664.cms||Brajesh Parmar
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Retired Madras HC judge A Kulasekaran to head panel to survey & collect caste-wise data||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced the appointment of A Kulasekaran, retired Madras High Court judge, to head a Commission that will survey and collect caste-wise data of the people of the state. The exercise is being undertaken to back the state to gear up to face a pending legal challenge, against 69% reservation implemented in the state, in Supreme Court, and to ensure that the welfare schemes of the state government reaches all the intended beneficiaries, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said. “The Commission will decide on the procedures to be adopted to collect caste-wise complete quantifiable data, based on the present scenario and submit a detailed report to the state government,” chief minister Palaniswami said. While the constitution of the Commission comes into force immediately, it will start its work at the earliest, chief minister said in a statement. The statement did not specify any timeline for the Commission to submit its report. “The new Commission will decide on the modalities,” of whether to conduct a survey for preparing the caste-wise data report or fall back on any available primary data, a senior official in the state government told TOI. The official did not elaborate further. The chief minister’s statement comes in the wake of an earlier announcement, made on December 1, when Palaniswami announced the state government’s intent to establish a Commission to conduct a survey and collect quantifiable caste-wise data as requested by several political parties and organizations at various times. He made that announcement on a day, when PMK cadres laid siege to the city after they were prevented from holding their planned protests demanding 20% reservation for Vanniyars in state government jobs and educational institutions. PMK youth wing president Anbumani Ramadoss too met the chief minister at the state secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/retired-hc-judge-a-kulasekaran-to-head-panel-to-survey-collect-caste-wise-data/articleshow/79616679.cms||D Govardan
December 8, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Man drowns trying to save daughter||Chennai: A 55-year-old software engineer drowned in the sea off Thiruvanmiyur on Monday while trying to rescue his 11-year-old daughter who was sucked in while practising ‘body-boarding,’ police said. While some fishermen managed to pull to safety B Revathi, the body of her father K Balaji washed ashore after a while. Police said a few fishermen had warned them against venturing into the rough sea.” Balaji, who worked at firm in Tidel Park and resided at Vannathurai near Besant Nagar, reached the beach around7am with Revathi. The Class VI student was keen on learning ‘body-boarding,’ also called ‘Boogie-boarding’. Soon after the practice session began, Balaji saw a giant wave engulf the girl. He immediately jumped in and was pulled in by another wave. Some beachgoers alerted a few fishermen who ventured into the sea and managed to bring the girl ashore. Soon, a police team and a fire and rescue services squad arrived and launched a search for the missing man before his body was found 200 metres from where he had been pulled in. The Thiruvanmiyur police sent the body for postmortem to Government Royapettah Hospital (GRH). A case was registered. Police said surfers usually do not practise when the sea is rough and that the father-daughter duo came to Tiruvanmiyur where the sea was relatively calm compared to Besant Nagar. Adyar deputy commissioner V Vikraman said, “We have deployed a posse of policemen at the places where people often visit the beaches.” Quoting some fishermen, he said Balaji and his daughter had gone to the beach through a porous entry. Murthy Megavan, who runs Covelong Point Surfing School in Kovalam, said many of those keen on bodyboarding are not serious about their lives. “They buy surfing boards as per their like and venture into the sea without studying the terrain.” Showkath Jamal, founder of Kovalam-based ‘the Bay of life’, outdoor-water sports school, said people should analyse the environment and think about lateral and rip currents. “They need a proper instructor to guide them,” he said. Jamal said people stuck in such situations can float in seawater if they don’t panic. “However, if one panics, the adrenaline that would flow would burn more sugar and one would get tired easily,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-man-drowns-trying-to-save-daughter/articleshow/79616694.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Shop closure stretched to 10pm, traders a happy lot||BHOPAL: Even as the flip-flop of district administration over market timing continues, traders in general have welcomed the district collector's order to extend timing of the markets in Bhopal from 8 pm to 10 pm. District collector, Avinash Lavania, issued a fresh order to this effect on Sunday, amending his earlier order under Section 144 of the CrPC issued after coronavirus cases started rising post Diwali. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had asked the district collector to consider the demand to extend timings of the market. “The district collector talked to members of the district crisis management group, and with their consent, the decision to extend the timings of the market was taken. The traders’ organisations had demanded extension in timing from both the state government and the district administration. It has been done in five districts, including Bhopal,” said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore. Traders felt that after the time for closure of shops and business establishments was advanced to 8pm, crowd in the markets between 5pm and 8pm had increased considerably, thereby defeating the very purpose for which the timing of the market was curtailed. “The old decision to shut shops at 8pm only increased the rush in markets during evening hours,” said Navneet Agrawal, a jeweller, who has a showroom in Chowk market. Anupam Agrawal of Bhopal Kirana Vyapari Mahasangh said, “They must have taken the decision taking all aspects into consideration. Crowd in the market during evening hours had definitely increased, which would only have contributed to the spurt in coronavirus cases. A section of traders also had an issue with the fact that liquor shops were allowed to remain open till 10 pm and grocery shops were being shut at 8 pm.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-shop-closure-stretched-to-10pm-traders-a-happy-lot/articleshow/79616690.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
December 8, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government doctors handle 54 OPDs daily||AHMEDABAD: Doctors are undoubtedly overworked during the Covid-19 pandemic. But even before that, a doctor deployed at an average government set-up in Gujarat was seeing 54 patients during his daily out-patient department consultations! And mind you, this is not the highest in India. The recent report ‘Human Resources for Health in District Public Health Systems of India: Statewise Report 2020’ by National Health Systems Resource Centre (NHSRC) revealed that 54 patients/OPD workload of a Gujarat doctor daily was seventh highest in India. The highest workload was in Kerala which recorded 89 patients per OPD, the report said. The report was prepared based on the data collated from 2018-19 financial year. The report underscored high vacancy in the medical sector with a 54% overall vacancy (in both regular and contractual posts) for specialists, 9% for nurses and 27% in ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife). On the other hand, against the sanctioned posts, Gujarat had 3% additional workforce in dentistry, 13% in labs and 15% at MBBS/ medical officer level. Among the specialists, 22% were regularly recruited and 6% were on contract, whereas in labs, 33% of the staff was on contractual employment. Among the nurses, those employed on contract were 12%. Ironically, the shortage of MBBS/MO was more at urban levels. According to the report, in Gujarat against 641 sanctioned posts, only 188 or 29% were filled up in urban public and community health centres (UPHC and UCHCs). Shortage of docs acute at urban levelsIronically, the shortage of MBBS/MO was more at urban levels. According to the report, in Gujarat against 641 sanctioned posts, only 188 or 29% were filled up in urban public and community health centres (UPHC and UCHCs). The report also mentioned that against the sanctioned ratio of five public healthcare providers (medical officers, specialists, staff nurses and ANM) per 10,000 population in the district healthcare system, Gujarat had four. The report said that Gujarat had specialist cadre in place, but no HR policy, implementation of HR information system (HRIS), HR integration or public health cadre - some initiatives which were present in other Indian states. Government doctors told TOI that their work area is quite expanded from seeing patients in OPD, carrying out house to house surveys, man community level mobile health check-ups vans and also supporting patients with their MAA and Ayushman Bharat cards. "Work easily gets stretched beyond an eight-toten-hour shift," said a district health officer. “A major workforce at the level of medical officers in districts run on the fresh MBBS students. When they decide to pursue further education, the vacancies get created. In the times like Covid-19, a trained workforce is equally important as the technology and medical infrastructure,” said a senior chief district medical officer (CDMO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-government-doctors-handle-54-opds-daily/articleshow/79616663.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bhopal||At 1307, new Covid cases beat recoveries in Madhya Pradesh after a week||BHOPAL: The count of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 2,15,957 on Monday as 1,307 new cases were reported. After seven consecutive days, Monday saw more new cases than the number of people recovering in a single day. For the past seven days, the number of people recovering had outnumbered the number of people testing positive in a day. The number of active patients increased by 53 on Monday (13,443) compared to Sunday when there were 13,391 active patients in the state. In the past seven days, the positive numbers were reducing every day and there was a reduction of 1,583 in the number of active cases as more people recovered and less tested positive. Apart from these fresh cases, 10 deaths were also reported on Monday. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3,347 in the state. Districts from which these deaths were reported include Indore where five deaths were reported, Bhopal where two deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Ratlam, Satna and Mandsaur districts. On Monday, new cases were reported from 49 of the 52 districts of the state. Of the 29,322 samples tested on Monday, a total 1,307 people tested positive. Thus, the overall positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Monday stood at 4.4%. On the brighter side, 1,245 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals. With these people recovering, the count of people recovering from Covid-19 reached 1,99,167.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/at-1307-new-covid-cases-beat-recoveries-in-madhya-pradesh-after-a-week/articleshow/79616710.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Memu, Demu trains resume, but crowds missing on Day 1||BENGALURU: In a move that could benefit thousands of daily passengers travelling between Bengaluru and nearby districts, South Western Railway (SWR) on Monday resumed Memu and Demu train services. However, ridership was low due to reasons like the work-from-home arrangement, virus scare and poor awareness about timings. SWR is operating 12 short-distance passenger trains connecting Bengaluru to all directions (Mysuru, Hassan, Hindupur, Hosur, Marikuppam/Bangarpet) till December 17. The services are likely to be extended thenceforth. It’s among the few railway zones in the country to resume unreserved passenger trains after the lockdown. The first train was 06558 Mysuru-Bangarpet Memu which departed from Mysuru at 5.50am, arrived at KSR Bengaluru City station at 8.44am and reached Bangarpet at 10.40am. The train was received by Bengaluru Central MP PC Mohan at City railway station and Kolar MP S Muniswamy at Bangarpet. Tumakuru MP GS Basavaraju flagged off another train from Tumakuru to Yeshwantpur. Railway officials distributed masks and sanitisers and interacted with passengers to sensitise them about precautions to be taken to prevent spread of Covid-19. SWR is taking preventive measures like conducting thermal screening and ensuring social distancing at stations. Many passengers welcomed the resumption of train services. “This was long awaited. These trains are cheaper and faster than buses. I could reach Bangarpet in two hours from KSR Bengaluru City. It will take more than three hours by bus,” said Madhav S, a daily-wage worker. Rajiv R, another passenger, said: “These non-AC coaches are safer than Metro. The service is useful for commuting towards Whitefield. Passengers are screened at stations and seats have markings. They could introduce more trains so more people can benefit.” Bengaluru divisional railway manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma said: “These are special trains for a short period so season tickets and concessional ones for senior citizens and children will not be issued. Tickets can’t be booked through UTS mobile app.” Eight of the 12 trains recorded a combined ridership of 817; statistics for the others were not available. While KSR Bengaluru-Hosur Memu had just 16 passengers, Marikuppam-KSR Bengaluru Memu ferried 289, according to officials. First Memu train to HosurSWR on Monday operated the first Memu train from Bengaluru to Hosur. 06547 KSR Bengaluru-Hosur Memu left KSR Bengaluru at 7.15am and arrived in Hosur at 8.35am. In the return direction, 06548 Hosur-KSR Bengaluru Memu left Hosur at 8.45am and reached KSR Bengaluru at 10.10am. Last month, electrification work between Byappanahalli and Hosur (48km) was completed. This will help railways operate Memu trains between Bengaluru and Hosur. Those working on Outer Ring Road and in Sarjapur, Electronics City and Bommasandra are set to benefit. Memu trains are faster, cheaper and more environmentally friendly than Demu trains. Rail enthusiast Abhishek R, who travelled on the Hosur train, said: “It will help many people. But there were only a few commuters on board because of lack of awareness. We hope ridership will pick up soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/memu-demu-trains-resume-but-crowds-missing-on-day-1/articleshow/79613377.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC orders Sanjjanaa Galrani’s medical checkup||BENGALURU: The high court on Monday directed a detailed medical checkup of Sandalwood actor Sanjjanaa Galrani, who has been arrested in a drug-peddling case. The checkup has to be undertaken at the state-run Vani Vilas Hospital and a report should submitted to the court by December 10, the next date of hearing, Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar said in his order. Sanjjanaa, whose bail petition was dismissed along with that of other accused on November 3, filed a fresh plea seeking bail on medical grounds. The actor, who was arrested in mid-September, is arrayed as 14th accused in the case. On September 29, the trial court rejected her bail petition, after which she moved the high court. The high court also rejected her bail plea, holding that the case diary produced by the prosecution disclosed many facets, not only of drug consumption but also arranging parties where they were supplied and sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-orders-sanjjanaas-medical-checkup/articleshow/79613393.cms||---
December 8, 2020||Bengaluru||Rajinikanth visits Bengaluru for brother’s blessings||BENGALURU: Superstar Rajinikanth briefly visited Bengaluru on Sunday night to meet his elder brother. Though the actor had plans to stay for a day, swelling crowds in front of his brother’s house prompted him to cut short his trip and leave for Chennai early Monday. According to sources, the 69-year-old star reached the city by road at 9pm on Sunday and went straight to his elder brother Sathyanarayana Rao’s residence off Mysuru Road near Nayandahalli. A media contingent spotted Rajinikanth in the back seat of a black SUV as he pulled into Rao’s residence. Rajinikanth waved at people gathered in front of his brother’s house as he walked in. It is said the superstar made the journey from Chennai to meet his brother to seek his blessings before starting his political career. However, there was no independent confirmation of this. It is also said that Rajinikanth had come to seek Rao’s blessings ahead of his 70th birthday (December 12). Earlier in Chennai, the actor had announced his decision to reveal the name of his political party on December 31 and commence party work from January 1. As the news of Rajinikanth arriving in Bengaluru spread, his fans started gathering outside his brother’s residence. Around 11pm, the actor made a brief appearance on the balcony of the building, much to the delight of the group waiting patiently despite the drizzle.  He left the city by road in the early hours of Monday and returned to Chennai. He is expected to join the sets of his upcoming Tamil film Annaatthe, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rajinikanth-visits-city-for-brothers-blessings/articleshow/79613390.cms||---
