December 9, 2020||Business||LVB logo, website tweaked post DBS merger; customers asked to use existing accounts||NEW DELHI: Customers of erstwhile Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), now owned by DBS Bank India Ltd, have been asked to continue using their existing accounts and other facilities, while the lender's website and logo now bear the DBS name alongside. In a notification on LVB's website, customers have been informed that they can continue to use their existing bank accounts, debit cards and cheque books seamlessly for transactions pan-India as earlier. Besides, the LVB IFSC and MICR codes remain unchanged till further notice, as per the Reserve Bank's directives. The physical branches of LVB can also be seen with the tweaked logo and the tagline - 'Now part of DBS Bank India Limited'. The 'Shareholder Info' section of the LVB website too has been removed, with a message saying: "It seems that the page you were trying to reach doesn't exist anymore, or maybe it has just moved." The future course of action regarding LVB's name change and logo is not yet decided, an official said. Earlier last month, the RBI placed crisis-ridden LVB under a moratorium and announced its merger with DBIL. The scheme of amalgamation came into effect from November 27, 2020, wherein the Indian arm of Singapore-based DBS Bank acquired the bank for Rs 2,500 crore. DBS is a leading financial services group in Asia and is present across 18 countries. It is doing business in India since 1994 and converted its operations to a wholly-owned subsidiary (DBS Bank India Limited) in March 2019. Last week, DBIL said it has received capital infusion of Rs 2,500 crore from DBS Bank Limited, Singapore, for the merger. "DBS Bank India Limited (DBIL) is well-capitalised, and its capital adequacy ratios (CAR) remains above regulatory requirements after the amalgamation. The amalgamation provides stability and better prospects to LVB's depositors, customers and employees following a period of uncertainty," DBIL had said. Once the integration is complete, customers will be able to access a wider range of products and services, including access to the full suite of DBS digital banking services, it had added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lvb-logo-website-tweaked-post-dbs-merger-customers-asked-to-use-existing-accounts/articleshow/79631360.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Alert home guards save teen from drowning||BENGALURU: An alert home guard and her brave and selfless colleague saved the life of a 17-year-old who slipped and fell into Sankey Tank on Monday evening. Home guards Rajalakshmi G, Udhay Shankar and Paramesh Reddy were on duty at the lake premises and were shepherding out the walkers and joggers around 7pm. Rajalakshmi had noticed that a visitor, Prema, had stopped walking and was looking at the water. She told the girl to leave the park as they were going to close it. “She told me she would walk out from the Malleswaram side,” the home guard said. Rajalakshmi had barely taken a few steps when she heard a splash of water and turned around only to see the girl in the lake. The home guard, who did not know how to swim, began shouting for help and the few walkers who were present there rushed towards her. But none of them knew how to swim. That’s when she summoned her colleagues, Udhay Shankar and Paramesh Reddy, who rushed to the spot. Reddy immediately jumped into the water. “It was freezing and I didn’t know the lake’s depth at that spot. All I knew was that I had to rescue the girl,” he told TOI. Reddy said he took 15 minutes to pull out the girl. “She was not very heavy but the water was extremely cold and it was really dark. At night it’s difficult to spot someone in the water unless s/he is struggling. In winter it’s worse as legs develop cramps due to the chill. But luckily, nothing happened on Monday,” he explained. “If it was a little late, we wouldn’t have been able to save the girl. Rajalakshmi’s alertness helped us,” Reddy added. Prema was taken to Sadashivanagar police station where her parents were called. “She had gone missing from her home earlier in the day. Her parents had lodged a missing complaint at Byadarahalli police station in the evening,” a Sadashivanagar police officer said. Byadarahalli police said according to the father, Prema had fought with her mother over her poor academic performance on Sunday night. Reddy has been posted at Sankey Tank for over a month. “I learnt how to swim in a well at my native place in Vijayawada. I never got proper training but know how to save people,” he said. ‘More personnel needed’Senior BBMP officials blamed Sankey Tank Walkers’ Association for the incident. “We have told members we would like to close the park before it gets dark, but they are objecting to it,” an official said, adding: “Monitoring 40 acres of space is not easy with just three home guards. We will need more.” Association president PV Ranganath, said he had suggested BBMP officials close the tank premises for the public by 7pm. “Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the park would be open from 5am-11am and 4pm-9pm, but the pandemic changed everything. The park is now open between 4pm and 7pm,” said Ranganath. “The park is huge and home guards are few. More people should be brought to monitor this space,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/alert-home-guards-save-teen-from-drowning/articleshow/79631369.cms||Nithya Mandyam
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Youth nabbed for assaulting boy over dispute between families||BENGALURU: A 20-year-old youth was on Monday arrested for allegedly beating up a 12-year-old boy over a dispute between their families in Varthur. The incident took place on December 1, but came to light only when the boy’s guardians approached Varthur police on Saturday. The accused,Venkatesh, is a resident of Varthur. The boy lives at his uncle’s place with his 14-year-old sister. Venkatesh and the boy’s family had earlier fought over a domestic issue and a complaint had been filed against Venkatesh. Keen on taking revenge, Venkatesh took the boy, who was playing with his friends in front of his house, around 6pm on his scooter to a burial ground in Varthur. He tied the boy’s legs and assaulted him. He abandoned the boy in the burial ground and left. Passersby noticed the crying boy and informed his family members, who took him to the hospital. The boy has since recovered and was discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youth-nabbed-for-assaulting-boy-over-dispute-between-families/articleshow/79631393.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Scooter-borne miscreants target women near marriage halls, snatch three chains in one hour||BENGALURU: Two scooter-borne miscreants snatched three gold chains from two women between 6.30am and 7.30am in Basavanagudi and Banashankari on Monday. In the first incident, the duo snatched two chains weighing 50 grams from Padmini Prakash, 51, a homemaker, at 6.20am near Pai Vista Convention Hall, Basavanagudi. Padmini had reached the hall at 6.30am to attend her niece’s marriage. “I was about to take my bags out of my car when the scooter-borne duo approached me. The pillion rider snatched my two gold chains and sped away,” Padmini, a resident of Rajajeshwari Nagar, told police. Police suspect the duo struck again at 7.30am near Dharmagiri Kalyana Mantapa, Banashankari 2nd Stage, and snatched a gold chain from Lavanya S, 23, a resident of Sarathinagar on Gottigere Main Road. Lavanya had come to the hall to attend a relative’s marriage and she came out to buy biscuits for her child when the incident took place. “The pillion rider threatened me at knife-point and sped away after snatching my gold chain weighing 46 grams,” she said. According to police, the miscreants in both cases used a scooter and were aged between 25-30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/scooter-borne-miscreants-target-women-near-marriage-halls-snatch-3-chains-in-1-hr/articleshow/79631397.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Three Indiranagar establishments booked for loud music||BENGALURU: Indiranagar police have booked cases against three pubs/restaurants in the locality for playing loud music till late in the night on Saturday. According to cops, the establishments — NeverMind, Mac’s Brew House and Mamagoto — were booked under different sections of Karnataka Police Act and IPC.  The move came in the backdrop of complaints lodged by a few residents about the inconvenience caused to them because of the music. The stand-off between residents and pub owners over playing loud music and parking of vehicles is not new in Indiranagar. The issue had reached the court and police had been told to report what action had been initiated. Aruna Newton, a member of I Change Indiranagar, said their peace has been shattered after pubs reopened following lifting of the lockdown. During lockdown there was no noise but now pubs are playing loud music, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3-indiranagar-establishments-booked-for-loud-music/articleshow/79631398.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Duo selling stolen Turkish currency held in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Electronics City police on Sunday arrested two persons for allegedly trying to sell demonetised Turkish currency at Velankanni Circle and seized 97 notes with a face value of five lakh Turkish lira. The accused are Satyavelu, 55, of Krishnagiri and Saravana, 38, of Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu. A police team received credible information that two persons with bundles of foreign currency were trying to sell it near Velankanni Circle. The cops rushed to the spot and detained the duo around 6pm. According to police, the duo confessed they had stolen the currency from a passenger on a KSRTC bus on Sunday morning. On realising it was foreign currency, the suspects decided to sell it. Police will verify the claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/duo-selling-stolen-turkish-currency-held/articleshow/79631404.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Protests mark Bharat Bandh; traffic hit in parts of Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations on Tuesday caused minimal disruption in the city. No untoward incidents were reported. No arrests were made though police took some protesters into preventive custody and let them off later. Hundreds of protesters took out rallies from Town Hall and Freedom Park, and gathered at Mysore Bank Circle around 1pm. They dispersed after having lunch on the road as a token of resentment against the Centre’s farm laws. The ever-busy Kempegowda Road was free of vehicular movement as police had diverted traffic at Hudson Circle. “Restriction of vehicles on KG Road helped in two ways — there were no traffic jams and the wide stretch could shelter the protesters, who showed up in thousands,” a senior police officer told TOI. Traffic was restored on the road after 4pm. Expressway packed due to morning airport rushIn the morning, roads leading to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), the expressway from Hebbal in particular, saw more traffic than usual. “Knowing that traffic in and around the city would be affected during the bandh, passengers who had booked tickets for Tuesday reached the airport in the morning itself. As a result, the expressway traffic flow towards the airport was relaxed later in the day,” police said. Despite diversions, there were traffic hold-ups at KR Circle and Hudson Circle. “Since we had to close down KG Road, two-way traffic was allowed on Nrupathunga Road, which is a one way. As a result, traffic from Police Corner to Urvashi Theatre junction near Lalbagh west gate was affected,” a senior traffic police officer said, adding, “There was slow movement of vehicles at KR Market, JC Road and Chamarajpet Main Road due to the bandh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/protests-mark-bharat-bandh-traffic-hit-in-parts-of-city/articleshow/79631452.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Schools divided; some suspend online classes||BENGALURU: Schools in Karnataka were divided on joining the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, which also led to a debate on social media. While Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS) had announced it would support the bandh and not conduct online classes, CBSE and international schools’ associations had made it clear they will not lend support. Some schools continued with classes on Tuesday, while others suspended them. The principal of an international school tweeted that students need continuity of learning and classes will be held. “Pls share details on what % of farmers in #Karnataka are impacted by the #FarmersBill2020 which led to @KAMSKARNATAKA suspending classes? #education is a fundamental right, #students have suffered enough this year pls let’s not add to it,” tweeted Nooraine Fazal of Inventure Academy. “...Please don’t drag schools into this. It’s not in our circle of expertise, influence or control. Arrange for scholarships for farmers kids, seminar to create awareness on the bill for school kids...more helpful,” she said in another tweet. However, KAMS accused schools not participating in the bandh of not being sympathetic to farmers as there were no cultivators in their parent community. “We know that International school parents are also corporate parents and these schools do not have poor farmers’ children on their rolls. Budget schools provide them quality education, so naturally the mindset of international schools is no different (sic),” said KAMS in a response. Some other educationists also came out in support of KAMS, saying when even foreign countries are extending support, why can’t the schools show solidarity by suspending classes. Several CBSE schools conducted classes as usual. “As a school we do not have any connect with political agendas and we’re working. The bandh has nothing to do with children’s learning progress,” said Shanthi Menon, principal, Deens Academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/schools-divided-some-suspend-online-classes/articleshow/79631455.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru will be in grip of chill; light showers today||BENGALURU: Nippy weather and light showers are likely to continue in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Due to easterly wind, India and other countries in the tropical belt are experiencing light showers. There is a circulation above southeast Arabian Sea and one above southeast Bay of Bengal, which have led to an increase in the pressure gradient and, in turn, higher wind speed. Thanks to gusty wind, the city will be feeling particularly nippy due to the wind-chill effect, the weatherman said. CS Patil, director of IMD, said: “The minimum temperature for the next two days will be between 17-19 degrees Celsius and maximum between 24-26 degrees. Thursday onwards, the sky is likely to be clear or partly cloudy, unlike how it is now.” Between 8.30am on Monday and 8.30am on Tuesday, the city received 7.6mm rain. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-will-be-in-grip-of-chill-light-showers-today/articleshow/79631459.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Indian tech companies witness $38 billion investments during Covid-19 times: Amitabh Kant||HYDERABAD: India has witnessed $38 billion investments in tech companies during the past six months when the whole world is reeling under Covid-19 pandemic, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Tuesday. Speaking in a session of the three-day TiE Global Summit (TGS) being held virtually, Kant said the Indian startup ecosystem witnessed launch of more than 55,000 start- ups which had raised over $60 billion in funding in the last five years and currently home to about 34 unicorns and 52 soonicorns (soon to be unicorns) with a potential to become unicorns by 2022. "While the world is reeling under the impact of Covid-19 pandemic India has seen tech investments crossing over $38 billion in the just last five or six months and this is absolutely massive and speaks volumes about potential of India, particularly when it comes to the technology," he said in an interactive session. Replying to query, he said artificial intelligence is going to become one of the biggest opportunities for India with respect to technology applications and the emerging technology is expected to add $957 billion to the Indian economy by 2035. On data protection, the official said in an evolving and fast changing digital landscape India we not only need stronger data protection but also data empowerment. He said India currently has over 650 million internet users adding a connection every three seconds while it is the largest consumer of data in the world with over 500 million smartphone users. Kant opined that Indian family business houses in a big way need to come forwards to invest in startups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-tech-companies-witness-38-billion-investments-during-covid-19-times-amitabh-kant/articleshow/79631499.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Farmers stir: Talks between Amit Shah, union leaders fail to make breakthrough||NEW DELHI: Talks between home minister Amit Shah and a select group of farmers representatives failed to make any breakthrough on Tuesday night with the union leaders insisting on their demand for repeal of three new laws and rejecting the government's proposal for amendments. Some leaders also threatened that they will boycott the scheduled sixth round of talks with the government on Wednesday at Vigyan Bhawan here, while others said their next course of action will depend on what amendments the government assures in writing, which they claimed was promised by Shah in today's meeting. Another leader said, "There is no chance of tomorrow's meeting. Whatever they have decided to give in writing we won't accept those amendments as we want complete repeal of the laws. There is no question of meeting again." However, a few leaders who attended the meeting with Shah appeared to be in favour of necessary amendments and assurances on the minimum support price (MSP) regime and the mandi system rather than a complete repeal of the laws enacted in September, indicating some kind of divisions among the unions. After the meeting which ended around midnight, All India Kisan Sabha general secretary and CPI(M) leader Hannan Mollah said, "The home minister has made it clear that the government will not repeal the laws. Shah-ji said the government will give tomorrow in writing the amendments which the government is keen to. We will decide about attending the meeting after discussing the written amendments with all 40 farmer unions." At the same time, he also added, "We don't want amendments, we want repeal of laws. There is no middle path. We will not attend tomorrow's meeting." Mollah said a final decision on attending the sixth round of talks will be taken at a meeting of union leaders Wednesday noon at Singhu border, where thousands of farmers have been camping for the last 12 days demanding the repeal of the laws. After the fifth round of talks on Saturday, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said that the next meeting had been scheduled for 11 am on December 9. Tomar, Food Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash, who have been leading the government's consultations with the agitating farmers, were present at the meeting Shah had with the 13 farmer leaders at National Agricultural Science Complex, Pusa. Farmer leaders have claimed that the laws will benefit corporates and end the mandi system and the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The government has maintained that it is committed to the welfare of farmers and have presented these laws as major reforms for their benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-stir-talks-between-amit-shah-union-leaders-fail-to-make-breakthrough/articleshow/79631547.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Five-member opposition group to meet President on farm laws||NEW DELHI: A five-member delegation of political leaders comprising Congress’s Rahul Gandhi, NCP patriarch Sharad Pawar, Left’s Sitaram Yechury and D Raja and DMK MP T K S Elangovan will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday evening to seek his intervention in resolving the impasse between the government and farmers protesting against the new agri laws. Nearly 18 political parties, including former NDA partners like SAD, have pledged support to the farmer protests against the three reform measures that seek to increase participation of private trade, facilitate contract farming and set terms for imposing stock limits. The delegation to meet Kovind, however, will be a smaller group in light of coronavirus-related restrictions on the size of delegation. The five parties were part of the 11 that signed a statement supporting the stir, which is led mostly by Punjab unions with some from Haryana and west UP. Sources said Rahul and the other leaders are expected to meet at Pawar’s residence to firm up points of discussion on the farm laws before they meet the President. It is also possible that the leaders will put forward their demand for a session of Parliament to discuss the farm issues, as has been demanded by some Congress leaders. Though largely symbolic, the meeting of political leaders with the President is seen as the opposition raising the profile of its opposition to the farm laws. This will also be the second time in three months that political parties will meet the President to oppose legislations. In September, leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad had met Kovind to register the opposition’s concerns over the manner in which the farm bills were passed in both Houses of Parliament. In his meeting with Kovind, Azad had asserted that the President, as the custodian of the Constitution, should not give presidential assent to bills passed by Parliament in an “undemocratic” fashion, and without listening to the voice of opposition parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/five-member-opposition-group-to-meet-president-on-farm-laws/articleshow/79631729.cms||Swati Mathur
December 9, 2020||India||Railways puts brake on creation of non-safety related new posts||NEW DELHI: The Railway Board has asked the general managers of zones and all production units to freeze creation of new posts except for safety works till further order. It has also asked them to surrender 50% of the existing vacancies, in other than safety categories. In its letter issued on November 24, the Railway Board has instructed the GMs to review the posts created in the last two years and where the recruitment has not been done against these posts, they can review these for surrendering. Sources said this is being done for two reasons. First, there is a need for rationalisation of the workforce and second, to tide over the tight fiscal condition. The Board had issued a similar letter in July asking the zones to start the exercise and to give a compliance report by July 10. Top railway officials had claimed that the move was for “rightsizing and not downsizing” and the posts that would be surrendered were created in the past two years and are yet to be filled. A railway ministry spokesperson said the rationalization of vacancies and expenditure management is an important exercise which every organization does including those in Government of India. “This internal note should be seen in that context only. It may be noted that Indian Railways is in the process of conducting examination for selection for a record number of vacancies numbering almost 1.4 lakhs. The selection process is starting from December 15, 2020 in which more than 2.4 crore candidates are expected to participate,” he said. The official added that Indian Railways is also completing the training and joining of ALPs in a phased manner. This is also expected to be completed by August, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-puts-brake-on-creation-of-non-safety-related-new-posts/articleshow/79631789.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||65 overstaying Bangladeshis, 16 Nigerians extradited from Karnataka||BENGALURU: Sixteen Nigerians and 65 Bangladeshis, who were residing in Karnataka illegally, have been extradited to their respective countries in the last few months. Replying to a question by Congress member Eshwara Khandre on steps taken by the government to curb drug menace, home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the government is waging a war against drug peddlers and users, and has taken several stringent measures. According to him, Nigerians involved in drug business were happy to be arrested as they would get a chance to continue their stay in the state despite the expiry of their visas. “The government, therefore, has decided to send them back to Nigeria. This is the first time so many Nigerians and Bangladeshis have been sent back to their countries,” he added. Bommai claimed that a record number of cases against drug peddlers and consumers were booked ever since the BJP came to power last year. “In 2019, there were 1,660 cases. This year till now, 3,852 cases have been registered; chargesheets have been filed in 2,085 cases. The number of cases in 2017 and 2018 stood at 1,126 and 1,031, respectively,” he added. Since the handling capacity of the forensic lab in Bengaluru was very low, there used to be an inordinate delay in narcotic tests. “We have upgraded the facility now and 51 samples can be tested at a time,” he said. Plans are afoot to upgrade forensic science laboratories in Kalaburagi, Mangaluru, Mysuru and Hubballi-Dharwad too. 'Drug seizure gone up'The seizure of drugs, LSD strips and other narcotic substances has also gone up as police have stepped up vigil. “ This year alone, police have seized 5,049 strips of LSD, which is a record. Police have also been successful in tracking 21 darkwebs and arresting suppliers and buyers,” he said. The minister claimed that as police have been building watertight cases, the accused are not getting bail easily. “A hacker, who was arrested recently, managed to get bail in two days when he was nabbed last time,” he added. “The government is working on strengthening the rules under the NDPS Act. We’ve asked the national law school to prepare draft rules,” he added. Khandre and Congress MLA Priyank Kharge alleged the home department is giving licences to recreational clubs in Kalaburagi and Bidar districts, which have been turned into gambling and betting dens. BJP MLA Nagendra urged the government to curb hookah bars. Congress MLA Prasad Abbayya said in Hubballi-Dharwad, youngsters are using whitener available at stationary shops as drugs. “Not just whitener, French polish is also being used. The government is committed to curbing all sorts of drug menace,” Bommai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/65-overstaying-bangladeshis-16-nigerians-extradited-from-ktaka/articleshow/79632046.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||New species of ecologically vital plant found in Western Ghats||BENGALURU: A new species of Indian muraingrasses, known for their ecological and economic importance (for example, fodder), has been spotted in the Western Ghats. It was identified by scientists from Agharkar Research Institute (ARI), an autonomous institute under the department of science and technology (DST). “The species has adapted to survive harsh conditions and low nutrient availability, and blossoms every monsoon. Globally, 85 species are from Ischaemum (genus) — commonly known as muraingrasses — of which 61 are exclusively found in India. Western Ghats have 40 species with the highest concentration of the genus,” the DST said in a statement. A team led by Mandar Datar and Ritesh Kumar Choudhary from ARI has been working on relationships among different groups of plants and their evolutionary development (plant taxonomy and phylogeny) of Indian muraingrasses to document the diversity and report novel species. The team discovered a novel species named Ischaemum janarthanamii from plateaus of Western Ghats of Goa, and a research paper describing it was recently published in Annales Botanici Fennici, a Finland-based journal. The first collection of this new species was made in the 2017 monsoon. The population was kept under observation for the next two years to confirm the consistency of its characters. “Ischaemum janarthanamii grows on low altitude lateritic plateaus on the outskirts of Bhagwan Mahavir National Park, Goa. The vegetation is exposed to extreme climatic conditions like desiccation in drier months and soils with low nutrient availability. However, withstanding these, the species has adapted to survive harsh conditions,” the DST added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-species-of-ecologically-vital-plant-found-in-w-ghats/articleshow/79632045.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi: Newlyweds clean up Someshwar beach||UDUPI: Nine days after tying the knot at Brahmavar on November 18, Anudeep Hegde and Minusha Kanchan headed out to Someshwar beach in Baindur, near here, with a broom and a bag to clean the litter left behind by local residents and tourists. The beach cleanup was a wedding challenge couple had decided upon before they entered the wedlock. With support from Minusha, 28, an employee in a pharmaceutical company, 31-year-old Anudeep, who runs a studio production that also dabbles in digital marketing at Kalmadi in Baindoor taluk, deferred their post-wedding travel and took up cleaning of the beach on priority. It was his involvement with Clean Kundapura project that inspired Anudeep to go for this project. “Since Minusha knew of my passion, she readily came on board when I suggested we set aside two hours a day to clean up the beach on which I spent my childhood,” he told TOI. Their idea of ‘Swachh Someshwar’ beach caught the attention of locals, who are helping the couple in this mission. Otherwise-picturesque Someshwar beach is pockmarked with piles of garbage -- discarded chappals, bottles and plastic wrappers. So the couple, with yellow gloves on, has been doing ‘shramadan’ for two hours every evening. Now, they are planning a vacation at Kodaikanal. With locals contributing their bit, large parts of Someshwar beach now wear a clean look. Anudeep said, “With locals chipping in, our work became a lot easier. Nearly 80% of the beach is clean. It is a herculean task to clean the micro plastics and we are trying to do just that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/newlyweds-clean-up-someshwar-beach/articleshow/79632047.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC cites lack of clarity in note, grants bail to businessman||BENGALURU: The high court has granted bail to a city businessman arrested for abetment to suicide, holding that the alleged death note produced by the prosecution doesn’t clearly indicate his involvement in the case. “In the absence of any particular material in the death note, it cannot be inferred that it’s the petitioner-accused No.1 who abetted the deceased to commit suicide,” Justice BA Patil observed while granting bail to BK Padmanabha Reddy, a resident of Bellandur. Reddy had approached the court seeking bail in relation to the suicide of NH Vanajakshi, an HSR Layout resident. The prosecution alleged that Reddy had some financial dealings with the woman since 2002 and not only refused to pay back her money but on July 28, 2020 even told her to die or do whatever she wanted to do, abetting her suicide. Further, the court was told that a suicide note recovered while untying the woman’s body from a ceiling fan contained three names, including Reddy’s. However, Reddy claimed the said death note is fabricated and the complaint filed by the woman’s son doesn’t make any specific allegations against him. After going through the records, Justice Patil pointed out there’s no clarity regarding the time when Vanajakshi called Reddy and who told her to die. The judge added the death note and other aspects, which have been intended to be relied upon by the prosecution, have to be considered and appreciated during the course of trial. Reddy has been told to furnish a bail bond of Rs 2 lakh with two sureties for a like sum and mark his attendance once a month before HSR Layout police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-cites-lack-of-clarity-in-note-grants-bail-to-bizman/articleshow/79632052.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Rudresh murder accused seeks bail; Karnataka HC notice to NIA||BENGALURU: The HC has ordered notice to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in response to a bail petition filed by Asim Sharif, an accused in the murder of RSS worker Rudresh. Sharif, a functionary of Popular Front of India, approached the court claiming he’s been in jail for over four years and is suffering from cardiac ailments and there is a possibility of him contracting Covid-19 . However, the court noted the checkup by Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research shows his health is normal. As the petitioner’s counsel insisted he would argue, the matter was adjourned to December 14. Rudresh was hacked to death on October 16, 2016 in Shivajinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rudresh-murder-accused-seeks-bail-hc-notice-to-nia/articleshow/79632058.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cop suspended for role in dacoity, extortion case||BENGALURU: A head constable attached to Shivajinagar police station has been suspended for alleged involvement in a dacoity case, where a group had extorted money and other valuables from migrant workers living in temporary sheds in Varthur. DCP (east) SD Sharanappa said head constable Syed Samiulla was suspended after the DCP (Whitefield) submitted a report mentioning his connivance with the accused. Samiulla is the fourth city policeman to face action for nefarious activities in less than a month. On October 29, four men, claiming to be cops looking for an accused, barged into the sheds and assaulted the migrants. In his complaint, Mohammed Aslam, 62, said they snatched six cellphones from the residents. When some residents raised objection, the intruders bundled four of them into a car and thrashed them. Two of them were later dumped near KR Puram, and the other two near Tin Factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cop-suspended-for-role-in-dacoity-extortion-case/articleshow/79632066.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: ED told to make stand clear on Amnesty’s five frozen accounts||BENGALURU: The high court has asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to indicate by Wednesday as to whether it is willing to allow Indians For Amnesty International Trust to make use of its five frozen bank accounts for settling statutory dues like payment of salaries and tax. Justice PS Dinesh Kumar said he would dispose of the petition if both the parties agree to this arrangement and indicated that he would pass orders if no via media solution emerges by Wednesday. The Centre’s advocate said money is illegally routed to several entities in the country by these international organisations who claim to use it for creating awareness about rights, but triggering division in society. The Centre sought 45 days for passing orders regarding the accounts, stating the money is treated as proceeds of the crime as per the PML Act and investigation is under way. However, counsel for the petitioner organisation said the Act gives a maximum of 30 days for passing orders. It is facing harassment despite the fact it’s a non-profit entity, spreading awareness on human rights through donations from likeminded people, the petitioner claimed. While challenging the August 25 communication by the ED to the banks, the petitioner alleged continuous harassment and said a provisional order was passed on November 26, freezing certain bank accounts. There is gross violation of the PML Act as no orders were passed or matters taken to adjudicating authority within 30 days of seizure, it added. However, to a pointed query by the court, the petitioner clarified that five accounts, including a fixed deposit account with Rs 130 lakh, have not been attached.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ed-told-to-make-stand-clear-on-amnestys-5-frozen-accounts/articleshow/79632084.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: ‘Ensure grievance redressal mechanism’||BENGALURU: A grievance reddressal mechanism needs to be put in place at the earliest to deal with complaints related illegal quarrying and stone crushing activities, the high court has said. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka noted that both the state government and KSPCB have to ensure such a mechanism so that citizens’ complaints are immediately addressed and action initiated against the wrongdoers. Noting that it’s the duty of the government and the KSPCB to take immediate action against illegal quarrying/stone crushing, the bench said in the absence of a redressal mechanism, the court is flooded with litigation. They have been granted time till January 12 to find a solution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ensure-grievance-redressal-mechanism/articleshow/79632087.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Raipur||Abhishek Chaturvedi: I witnessed some amazing young talent in Chattisgarh||Abhishek Chaturvedi, a software engineer cum model, and actor, who was last seen in ‘Tera Nasha’ music video that garnered praises from the audience has undergone some drastic body transformation for his next projects. For Abhishek Chaturvedi, it had been about pushing his passion and beating all hurdles and looking at himself with pride. Sharing about his visit to Chhattisgarh and changes that awestruck him, he said, “When I came back to my home state of Chattisgarh, I witnessed some amazing young talent in terms of modelling and acting field, which made me very proud and I am extremely overwhelmed to see this part of India growing in this direction as well.” Further, he added, “With that said, as we all know there has been a massive pandemic situation going on in the world, India too has been hit badly, and just as every other sector our entertainment industry is also undergoing a downturn which is why many artists are left unemployed in recent times. So I would urge all of you to always prioritise and complete your education before completely diving into this field because it will give you and your family a sense of security, boost your mental well being and also reduce the chances of going into depression.” Talking about the biggest learning in life as a professional he shares, “Confidence is the one thing which I wear every morning. It helps me in facing tough challenges of the day with a smile on my face. People get their eyes, where they find stories and where they can resonate. So I changed myself accordingly and did lots of improvisation as per the requirements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/abhishek-chaturvedi-i-witnessed-some-amazing-young-talent-in-chattisgarh/articleshow/79632262.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chennai||After the recent rains, Chennaiites are having fun exploring the water bodies||It seems like people in Chennai have found a new activity during weekends — explore lakes and other water bodies in and around Chennai that are brimming with water after the recent rains. Thirty three-year-old Shivaraju Mallan, a biker from Chennai, is one among them. He says, “A day after the Nivar cyclone, I went to 17 lakes between Madipakkam and Kalpakkam. I left home at 6.30am and came back at 7.30pm. Then, after seeing the photos I had posted on social media, I was joined by a group of friends on November 28 and 29 for a ride, exploring lakes from Kalpakkam all the way up to north Pondicherry. And we camped near Odiyur Lake. We also went to Maduranthakam Lake, which is said to be one of the biggest lakes in the state.” Picnic-like feel at these water bodiesFor Ramanujar Moulana, a Chennai-based cyclist, it was Thaiyur Lake’s kalangal (outlet points) that was in his bucket list to explore during the monsoon. So, when the northeast monsoon was in its full glory, he knew it was the right time to go. He visited the place the weekend following Cyclone Nivar. “Thaiyur Lake has beautiful outlet points. They are called kalangal in Tamil. I have noticed them during my previous rides. But they were dry then. When the northeast monsoon arrived, I knew those outlets would be full. The lake is really scenic with its flora and fauna, courtesy the nearby reserve forest. Because of the flow of surplus water from the lake, its outlets are spots of attraction. Though it’s a short-lived fiesta, it’s a picnic-like atmosphere there with people coming with families on weekends. The place is close to Kelambakkam on Old Mahabalipuram Road.” Padmapriya Baskaran, a history enthusiast and one among those involved in the cultural mapping venture of Cooum, shared a video on her social media page, showing water gushing through the gates of Kesavaram dam. “This is where the water splits as Cooum and Kusasthalai rivers. Both the rivers can be seen side by side. The last time we saw water gushing out of it was during 2015 floods and now, after Cyclone Nivar. Otherwise, the place is desert dry. This is a temporary phenomenon. So, people visited the place when it happened and the priest of the Kesavaram temple, Selvam, sent me the video which I posted. The place is about 70km from Chennai.” Explore, but don’t pollute water bodies While people like Shiva love exploring lakes and wouldn’t mind taking friends along with them for expeditions, they’re also concerned about pollution when these places become very touristy. “There are three crystal clear water bodies in Chennai, but I won’t even share their location with anyone as I fear they might get polluted. The local villagers are very protective about some of these water bodies. We not only camp at a lake site, we also remove plastic and clean the place, so that villagers allow us to camp there,”says Shiva, who has been exploring water bodies since 2012. Lake conservationist and environmentalist, Arun Krishnamurthy, opines, “Chembarambakkam, Poondi, Puzhal, Cholavaram, Manimangalam are large lakes that can definitely yield revenue through tourism. However, public safety and lake structural safety are of prime importance before opening up these lakes for tourism. Stringent conservation and eco-tourism plans are important. Tourism-based litter, footfall-based commercialisation and change of natural dynamics may not support the conservation of such pristine water bodies as we’ve seen in the case of Courtallam, Hogenakkal, Vaigai Dam etc.” Shiva’s top five picks for a picnic Polacheri Lake l Nellikuppam Lake l Mambakkam Lake l Thaiyur Lake l Great Salt Lake||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-the-recent-rains-chennaiites-are-having-fun-exploring-the-water-bodies/articleshow/79632170.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
December 9, 2020||Business||SBU to keep subsidy flowing for BPCL customers||NEW DELHI: Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) will create an SBU (strategic business unit) for its domestic LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) business to ensure its seven crore household customers continue to get government subsidy on cooking fuel after the company is privatised. The SBU will allow the government to work around the issue of giving subsidy to a private company in the three years the new owner/s will have to decide on whether to retain the domestic LPG business, a top oil ministry official told TOI. The SBU will maintain separate accounts, with records of subsidy received and digitally transferred to user accounts, which will be audited to ensure no pilferage. If the new owner/s retain the domestic LPG business, the government will continue to provide subsidy, if there is a subsidy, through the SBU without creating a situation where other private fuel retailers may also want in. But if the new owners do not want to carry on, as usual, all of BPCL’s domestic LPG consumers will be transferred to the other two public sector fuel retailers – IndianOil and Hindustan Petroleum. “BPCL is a legacy company and overnight subsidy flow to users cannot be stopped. The new owner cannot sell any asset or the SBU for three years. After that the new owner will have a right to decide on selling the LPG business,” the official said. The ministry has already asked the three public sector fuel retailers, who have a monopoly over the domestic LPG market, to bring data of all their LPG consumers on a common platform. This will allow easier portability and smooth large-scale transfer of consumers. The government gives 12 subsidised refills to each household. The subsidy this month is about Rs 50 per cylinder, which is directly paid into the bank accounts of the users. The subsidy is paid in advance and consumers use this to buy refills at market price. The moment a refill is bought using the subsidy, another instalment is transferred into the user bank accounts. The government is selling its entire 52.98% stake in the BPCL. It has 14% of India's oil refining capacity, nearly a quarter of the fuel retail market in the world's fastest-growing energy market and a huge land bank across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbu-to-keep-subsidy-flowing-for-bpcl-customers/articleshow/79632735.cms||Sanjay Datta
December 9, 2020||Business||High taxes adding fire to fuel as prices continue to spiral||NEW DELHI: Fuel prices have started to pinch consumers harder as petrol has become costlier by nearly 4% and diesel about 5% in the last 18 days as high Central and state taxes amplified the impact of buoyancy in global crude on hopes of early revival in demand following the success of Covid-19 vaccine candidates. Petrol has become costlier by Rs 2.65 per litre and diesel by Rs 3.41 to sell at Rs 83.71 and Rs 73.87 a litre, respectively, in Delhi since the state-run fuel retailers began revising pump prices from November 20. In Mumbai, petrol price rose to Rs 90.34 a litre and diesel Rs 80.51 on Tuesday, marking one of the highest fuel prices in the country. The upward revision has been prompted by an upswing in crude prices since October 26 as the success of Covid-19 vaccines lifted the market. Benchmark Brent spiked 1.6% to $48.61 per barrel last Wednesday, the highest since March, before the oil markets closed for the Thanksgiving holiday. Since then, however, oil has been hovering around the same level, rising a tad to $48.76 on Tuesday. Since fuel prices are benchmarked to a 15-day rolling average of global refined products’ prices and dollar exchange rate, pump prices can be expected to remain northbound over the next few days even if crude hovers at the current level. As the impact of this rally began hitting home, high fuel taxes amplified the effect. For consumers, the high excise duty and VAT, which make up 63% of petrol and 60% of diesel prices, makes the pinch harder due to their incremental increase after every hike in the base price. Available data shows when a litre of petrol last sold for Rs 81.06 in Delhi on November 19, consumers paid Rs 51.69 as taxes. At a price of Rs 71.46 a litre for diesel, consumers paid Rs 42.59 in taxes. The Centre had raised excise duty on petrol by Rs 13 per litre and diesel by Rs 16 in two tranches on March 16 and May 5. Pump prices remained unchanged as oil companies offset the higher taxes against the profit from the historic crash in crude prices as demand tanked when economies around the world shut down. Several state governments, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab also jacked up VAT. Higher oil price is also bad news for the government, which is stretched for cash as it struggles with the pandemic’s economic downside. Costlier crude will jack up India’s oil import bill, shrinking the financial headroom the government enjoyed from the protracted spell of the subdued oil market that followed the historic oil price crash in April. For example, the oil import bill stood at Rs 93,466 crore in the April-July period, or the first four months of the current financial year. This is 62% lower than Rs 2.51 lakh crore in the comparative period of 2019. In dollar terms, the bill stood at $12.4 billion, marking a saving of 65.7%. To put the figure in perspective, the near-Rs 1.6 lakh crore saving in the January-July oil import bill is the same as the Rs 1.7 lakh crore tab for the Covid relief package announced for the poor in March. Surely, the government does not buy oil. But cheaper oil has a positive impact on macroeconomic parameters, which reduces drag on government finances and frees up resources for welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/high-taxes-adding-fire-to-fuel-as-prices-continue-to-spiral/articleshow/79632795.cms||Sanjay Dutta
December 9, 2020||Business||LPG prices jacked up by Rs 50 per cylinder||NEW DELHI: The government's fuel subsidy burden returned after several months as state-run fuel retailers raising the price of household cooking fuel, or LPG, by Rs 50 per refill this month but there was no signal yet on transfer of this amount into the bank account of consumers. The price of a refill has risen to Rs 644 per cylinder in Delhi from Rs 594 in November after remaining unchanged since July. The oil price crash in April and the small hikes in refill prices before that did away with the need for subsidy as market and subsidised prices became the same. In June last year, a subsidised cooking gas cylinder cost Rs 497 in Delhi. Since then, the total price increase has been Rs 147. The subsidy for a customer in Delhi was Rs 240 in June 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lpg-prices-jacked-up-by-rs-50-per-cylinder/articleshow/79632877.cms||Sanjay Dutta
December 9, 2020||World||Donald Trump takes vaccine victory lap, boosting shots confidence||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump is taking a victory lap ahead of the expected approval of the first US vaccine for the coronavirus, as the White House works to instill confidence in the distribution that will largely be executed by President-elect Joe BidenTrump scheduled an event celebrating "Operation Warp Speed," his administration's effort to produce and distribute safe and effective vaccines for Covid-19. The first, from drugmaker Pfizer, is expected to receive endorsement by a panel of Food and Drug Administration advisers as soon as this week, with delivery of 100 million doses enough for 50 million Americans expected in coming months. Trump and his aides hope the event will tamp down skepticism among some Americans about the vaccine and help build the outgoing Republican president's legacy. The "Operation Warp Speed" summit will feature Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and a host of government experts, state leaders and business executives, as the White House looks to explain that the vaccine is safe and lay out the administration's plans to bring it to the American people. But officials from Biden's transition team, which will oversee the bulk of the largest vaccination program in the nation's history once he takes office Jan. 20, were not invited. Officials from the pharmaceutical companies developing the vaccines were not expected to attend despite receiving invitations, according to people familiar with the matter. Outside the White House, there has been concern about the event contributing to the politicization of the vaccine development process and potentially further inhibiting public confidence in the drugs. Trump's administration was facing new scrutiny Tuesday after failing to lock in a chance to buy millions of additional doses of Pfizer's vaccine, which has shown to be highly effective against Covid-19. That decision could delay the delivery of a second batch of doses until Pfizer fulfills other international contracts. Under its contract with Pfizer, the Trump administration committed to buy an initial 100 million doses, with an option to purchase as much as five times more. But this summer, the White House opted not to lock in an additional 100 million doses for delivery in the second quarter of 2021, according to people who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss it publicly. Dr. Moncef Slaoui, who is leading the government's vaccine effort, noted the Trump administration had been looking at a number of different vaccines during the summer. He told ABC's "Good Morning America" on Tuesday that "no one reasonably would buy more from any one of those vaccines because we didn't know which one would work and which one would be better than the other." Concerns about the availability of the vaccines come as Trump is to sign an executive order Tuesday to prioritize Americans for coronavirus vaccines procured by the federal government. A senior administration official said the order would restrict the government from delivering doses to other nations until there is excess supply to meet domestic demand, but it was not immediately clear what the practical impact would be. The Trump administration insists that between the Pfizer vaccine, another vaccine from drugmaker Moderna and others in the pipeline, the US will be able to accommodate any American who wants to be vaccinated by the end of the second quarter of 2021. The decision not to secure additional Pfizer purchases last summer was first reported by The New York Times. Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar told NBC the administration is"continuing to work across manufacturers to expand the availability of releasable, of FDA-approved vaccine as quickly as possible. . We do still have that option for an additional 500 million doses." While Trump was to take credit for the record pace of vaccine development, much of the groundwork was laid over the last decade, amid new research into messenger RNA, or mRNA, vaccines of the sort developed by both Pfizer and Moderna. ``The speed is a reflection of years of work that went before," Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, told The Associated Press this month. "That's what the public has to understand." The Food and Drug Administration's panel of outside vaccine experts is to meet Thursday to conduct a final review of the Pfizer drug, and it will meet later this month on the Moderna vaccine. The FDA is not required to follow the panel's advice, though it usually does. Agency decisions on the two drugs are expected within days of each meeting. Both have been determined to be 95% effective against the virus that causes Covid-19. Plans call for distributing and then administering about 40 million doses of the two companies' vaccines by the end of the year with the first doses shipping within hours of FDA clearance. Biden, who was rolling out his senior health team on Tuesday, said last week that in meetings with Trump administration officials his aides have discovered that "there's no detailed plan that we've seen" for how to get the vaccines out of containers, into syringes and then into people's arms. Trump administration officials insist that such plans have been developed, with the bulk of the work falling to states and local governments to ensure their most vulnerable populations are vaccinated first. In all, about 50,000 vaccination sites are enrolled in the government's distribution system, the officials said. Each of the forthcoming vaccines has unique logistical challenges related to distribution and administration. The Pfizer vaccine must be transported at super-cooled temperatures, and comes in batches of 975 doses. Each vial contains five doses, requiring careful planning. The administration has prepared detailed videos for providers on how to safely prepare and administer doses, to be posted after the FDA issues its emergency use authorization. One such plan is to be announced Tuesday: Pharmacy chains CVS and Walgreens have stood up a "mobile vaccination service`` ready to vaccinate people in every nursing home and long-term care facility in the country. The roughly 3 million residents of those facilities are among the most vulnerable for Covid-19 and have been placed at the front of the line to access the vaccine, along with more than 20 million healthcare workers. So far 80-85% of the facilities have signed on to the service, the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trump-takes-vaccine-victory-lap-boosting-shots-confidence/articleshow/79632210.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Virus or pesticide behind mystery AP illness: AIIMS||AMARAVATI: The All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said on Tuesday that water contaminated by a virus or pesticide might have triggered the “mystery” disease in Eluru town. A leading private lab in Vijayawada found high levels of pesticides, including DDT, in the drinking water. A separate report by AIIMS Mangalagiri showed high levels of lead and nickel in the blood samples collected from patients. A team comprising experts from AIIMS Delhi, National Institute of Virology, Pune, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, and National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad, is zeroing in on the causative agent — a pesticide or virus, or a combination of both — that led to the hospitalisation of about 500 people in the last three days. The mysterious sicknesses began on December 6 when a number of people were hospitalised with symptoms that resembled those of epilepsy. Eluru is served by two irrigation canals that are interlinked. While one canal originates in Rajahmundry, another takes birth in Vijayawada. Pesticides and fertilisers used by farmers en route are dumped into these canals, which serve as drinking water sources for thousands of villages and the Eluru city. The expert team will collect samples from patients and send them to NIV Pune and other laboratories to find out why people were suffering sudden seizures. Earlier, AIIMS (Mangalagiri) medical superintendent Rakesh Kakkar visited Eluru on Sunday and studied the case sheets of the patients and analysed possible reasons for the sudden illness. Patients exhibited seizures, convulsions, vomiting, foaming and tremors. “Most of the 20 patients interviewed said there was a change in the colour and taste of the water. Some reported that there was a greenish/muddy discolouration of the household water supply,” AIIMS said in its preliminary report to the state government. The Vijayawada lab report said dichlorodiphenyldichlorethane (DDD) was found at 14.21 and 15.23 per mg/l while the acceptable limit is just 0.0001. Similarly, alachlor, a herbicide, was found at 10.88, and methoxychlor, a pesticide, was recorded at 17.64, against the acceptable level of 0.001. Andhra Pradesh CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/virus-or-pesticide-behind-mystery-ap-illness-aiims/articleshow/79633192.cms||M N Samdani
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 25-year-old dalit touches food at a feast, beaten to death||BHOPAL: The social evil of untouchability, still lurking in some parts of Bundelkhand, cost a 25-year-old dalit youth his life on Monday after two upper-caste men thrashed him to death in MP’s Chhatarpur because he had touched food at a feast. The accused Bhoora Soni and Santosh Pal had called the youth, Devraj Anuragi, to clean up after the party in Kishanpur village, about 450km from Bhopal and close to the UP border. On seeing Anuragi serve food for himself, the accused flew into a rage and beat him to death with sticks, Gaurihar SHO Jaswant Singh Rajput said. Soni and Pal, who are on the run, were booked for murder and under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. “They will be caught soon,” Chhatarpur SP Sachin Sharma said. The accused are marginal farmers. Bhoora has a criminal record, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/25-year-old-mp-dalit-touches-food-at-a-feast-beaten-to-death/articleshow/79633372.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||PM, Big B’s posts among top 2020 tweets||NEW DELHI: Hashtag #Covid19 was the top trend for 2020 on Twitter. And PM Narendra Modi’s April 5 tweet about lighting lamps of “hope and good health” during Covid-19 was the most retweeted in the political space fetching over 1.18 lakh retweets. शुभं करोति कल्याणमारोग्यं धनसंपदा ।शत्रुबुद्धिविनाशाय दीपज्योतिर्नमोऽस्तुते ॥ https://t.co/4DeiMsCN11— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1586102646000Actor Amitabh Bachchan posting that he had tested positive for Covid-19 on July 11 was the most quoted Indian tweet of the year. The most retweeted tweet in the business space in India was tycoon Ratan Tata’s post where he had announced Rs 500 crore financial aid to fight the coronavirus on March 28. T 3590 -I have tested CoviD positive .. shifted to Hospital .. hospital informing authorities .. family and staf… https://t.co/Brl0qhPQx0— Amitabh Bachchan (@SrBachchan) 1594488178000The COVID 19 crisis is one of the toughest challenges we will face as a race. The Tata Trusts and the Tata group co… https://t.co/GQ6H6sSFcF— Ratan N. Tata (@RNTata2000) 1585392484000Other most talked about tweets include Indian cricketer MS Dhoni’s appreciation post on August 20 for PM Modi’s letter on his retirement. An Artist,Soldier and Sportsperson what they crave for is appreciation, that their hard work and sacrifice is getti… https://t.co/YfZlyopymU— Mahendra Singh Dhoni (@msdhoni) 1597911922000In a year-end report dated between January 1 and November 15, the micro blogging platform revealed mentions for doctors and teachers have increased by 135% and 30%. The most retweeted tweet in India was Tamil actor Vijay’s selfie with his fans on February 10. So far his tweet had over 1.6 lakh retweets, 3.8 lakh likes. Thank you Neyveli https://t.co/cXQC8iPukl— Vijay (@actorvijay) 1581342108000The most tweeted meme was on Binod. A mention in a video by Slayy Point (@SlayyPoint) set off the meme, which took over the service. Creators, brands and even the police jumped in on the conversation, changing their profile names and tweeting videos and pictures. There was a lot of conversation about “Who is Binod?”, but it was clear #Binod was everywhere, securing its spot as the most tweeted meme on Twitter in India this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-big-bs-posts-among-top-2020-tweets/articleshow/79633486.cms||Anam Ajmal
December 9, 2020||Business||Interest waiver for all can lead to Rs 6 lakh crore loss, Centre tells Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that waiver of interest during the moratorium period for all borrowers would not be in the larger national economic interest as it would be not viable and may trigger collapse of the entire banking system. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah that waiver of interest on all loans for the moratorium period would cause loss of more than Rs 6 lakh crore to banks and financial institutions. “If the banks were to bear this burden, it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth, rendering most of the banks unviable and raising a very serious question mark over their survival. This was one of the main reasons why waiver of interest was not even contemplated and only payment of instalments was deferred,” the Centre said. Read AlsoInterest on interest waiver: Banks start crediting accounts; finance ministry issues additional FAQsLast week, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had asked all lending institutions, including non-banking financial companies, to ensure that the scheme of waiver of interest on interest for loans up to Rs 2 crore for the six-month moratorium period is implemented by November 5.Explaining the adverse impact on the financial health of the banks, the government contended that waiver of six months’ interest would completely wipe out over half of the net worth of State Bank of India, the country’s largest bank. The Centre said it was even impossible for banks to bear the burden resulting from waiver of compound interest without passing this on to the depositors or thus affecting their net worth adversely. “The only solution, under the circumstances, was that the government bear the burden resulting from waiver of compound interest to the defined category of borrowers. This court would be satisfied that the government bearing this burden would naturally have an impact on several other pressing commitments being faced by the nation, including meeting direct costs associated with pandemic management, health sector, addressing basic needs of the common man and mitigating the common man’s problems arising out of loss of livelihood,” the Centre said. Read AlsoCard users to gain more from ‘interest on interest’ waiverThe govt’s decision to waive “interest on interest” during the March-August loan moratorium period will benefit all individuals with loans up to Rs 2 crore but if you have a home loan, especially one that was availed several years ago, your savings will not be much. However, if you have outstanding“The government, therefore, has decided that the relief on waiver of compound interest during the six-month moratorium period shall be limited to the most vulnerable category of borrowers. This category of borrowers, in whose case, the compounding of interest will be waived, would be MSME loans and personal loans up to Rs 2 crore,” it said. The hearing remained inconclusive and would resume on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/interest-waiver-for-all-can-lead-to-rs-6-lakh-crore-loss-centre-tells-supreme-court/articleshow/79633828.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Covid-19: 29k cold chain points in place for vaccines||NEW DELHI: With three anti-Covid vaccines under regulatory review for emergency use, the government is gearing up with 28,947 cold chain points with 85,643 pieces of equipment across the country that are capable of storing the vaccines needed for the first set of 3 crore health and frontline workers. The Centre is mobilising additional vaccinators, a digital platform for vaccine delivery and a detailed implementation plan to inoculate around 30 crore priority population in the first phase expected to get underway soon. The government is procuring additional cold storage capacities, and supply of equipment to states will begin from December 10, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, outlining the rollout logistics of the vaccine. Bhushan said the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has recommended three priority groups, adding up to almost 30 crore people. These include healthcare and frontline workers, those above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities. Follow TOI's live blog for latest updates on Coronavirus“Every single Indian who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated. The vaccination drive, the largest of its kind, could go on for a year or more,” Bhushan said, adding the priority groups need not run sequentially. Once supply of vaccine starts increasing, people from different groups can be inoculated simultaneously. The Centre is also arranging for additional vaccinators for Covid-19 in coordination with states and UTs to ensure that the regular immunisation programmes are not impacted. Of a total 2.39 lakh trained auxiliary nurses and midwife (ANM) vaccinators, 1.54 lakh will be deployed for Covid vaccination, the health ministry said. The health secretary said nine vaccines were currently under development in the country of which six were in clinical trial stages. “Even after vaccination, precaution must be taken,” Bhushan said. “Additional procurement of syringes and needles is on track along with technical training material. Detailed implementation plans will be finalised with state governments in the coming days,” he added. The health ministry has developed Co-Win — a digital platform for vaccine delivery — that will keep tabs on the overall coverage, drop-outs, temperature loggers (for cold chain), sessions planned versus held etc. The digital platform includes a mobile app where a person can register to receive the shot. It also includes an electronic vaccination certificate in the form of a quick response code that will acknowledge the shot. The government is putting in motion a multiple-level coordination mechanism between the Centre, the national vaccine administration committee, steering committee at the state level and task forces at district and block level. A control room set up at the state level will work 24x7 once the vaccination exercise starts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-29k-cold-chain-points-in-place-for-vaccines/articleshow/79633845.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 9, 2020||India||India in club of 2 with one Covid wave so far||NEW DELHI: As daily Covid-19 cases in the country continue to fall after peaking nearly three months ago, India is among only two nations among the 10 worst-affected by the pandemic that are yet to be hit by a second wave of infections. Eight of these countries have either seen or are in the midst of a second or third wave of the pandemic. The only other country among the 10 to have suffered just a single Covid wave so far is Argentina. Read AlsoCovid-19: 29k cold chain points in place for vaccinesWith three anti-Covid vaccines under regulatory review for emergency use, the government is gearing up with 28,947 cold chain points with 85,643 pieces of equipment across the country that are capable of storing the vaccines needed for the first set of 3 crore health and frontline workers.Two or more waves of the pandemic appear to be the norm in countries with a sizable number of infections. In the worst-hit 15 countries of the world, all with caseloads of nearly one million or more, Poland is the only other country hit by a single big wave thus far. What is common between India, Argentina and Poland is that in all three countries the first wave of infections peaked relatively late. In India, the peak came in mid-September, in Argentina it was in the third week of October while Poland had its peak in the first week of November. All other countries had seen Covid cases peaking latest by August. The US, the world's worst-hit country by far, is arguably in the midst of a third wave of infections. Its first peak came in the second week of April and the second in the third week of July. Thereafter, daily cases fell till the second week of September before climbing steeply again. Read AlsoAs US covid cases edge up to 100,000 per day, a referendum on the pandemic- and the truth about itWASHINGTON: He has promised to "Fire Fauci" after the elections, but the coronavirus may fire him before that. As it heads into Election Day on Tuesday November 3, the United States is tipping into a record territory of 100,000 coronavirus cases per day in the midst of what history could well recordIn all countries (among the worst 15) hit by multiple waves, the second wave has been deadlier than the first. The only exception is Brazil, but it’s still not clear whether or not the second wave in the country is on wane. In India, daily cases have fallen to almost a third of the levels seen during the peak of the pandemic. But with more than 30,000 daily cases still being reported, the danger of a second wave clearly continues to lurk. On Tuesday, India reported 32,069 fresh cases of the virus. The count was around 4,000 less than what was reported on the previous Tuesday, indicating the continuing fall in cases. Kerala reported the highest number of fresh cases at 5,032, followed by Maharashtra (4,026), Delhi (3,188) and Bengal (2,941). The day’s death toll was 404, having crossed the 400 mark after a gap of three days. Delhi recorded the day’s highest deaths at 57 but the toll in the capital has been gradually decreasing in sync with the fall in fresh cases. Maharashtra reported 53 fatalities, the second highest in the country, followed by Bengal (49), Punjab (30) and Uttar Pradesh (23). Watch Covid-19: India in club of 2 with one wave so far||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-in-club-of-2-with-one-covid-wave-so-far/articleshow/79633854.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
December 9, 2020||India||Sharing newspaper PDFs is illegal||Early on in the lockdown, many who missed their morning newspaper or had safety concerns took to reading PDFs of The Times of India ePaper shared on social media groups. But even after studies have shown that newspapers are safe and do not spread the coronavirus, many are still continuing with these illegal downloads despite warnings from experts that this could invite legal action against admins of such WhatsApp groups and members. Senior Supreme Court lawyer Pavan Duggal points out that circulation of paid content without permission violates the law. “If a digital edition is being circulated without the permission of the owner, it is a violation of the Copyright Act as well as the Information Technology Act Section 43 which clearly says that if any attempt is made to destroy, delete or alter any information residing in a computer resource, or diminish its value or utility, it is illegal. This person will be liable to pay damages by way of compensation to the person so affected.” This way of reading newspapers is also risky because it opens up the possibility of someone tampering with the content in the newspaper. A third party circulating the paper without permission may even manipulate and alter the content. This can lead to a whole host of legal and credibility issues, and could make one more susceptible to reading the very fake news that newspapers diligently work to avoid. This practice not only impacts the readers by opening them up to inaccurate or tampered information, it also negatively impacts newspapers and the state of journalism as well. Newspapers are in the business of audience aggregation through newspaper content. But if this content is available outside newspapers — whether it’s WhatsApp or Facebook, it can hurt the business of journalism and the jobs of many hard-working reporters, editors, photographers, designers and countless others who work together to produce the newspaper. So if you don’t want to devalue the hard work that goes into creating this credible and diverse content or invite civil and criminal charges, make sure you don’t click on that PDF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sharing-newspaper-pdfs-is-illegal/articleshow/79634084.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Coming in January, a health e-pass to help boost global air travel||NEW DELHI: The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is expected to launch early next year a trial of the IATA Travel Pass, a digital health certificate, to facilitate safe restart of international air travel after the pandemic. The IATA Travel Pass, on the lines of the Yellow Fever inoculation certification which is mandatory for passengers travelling to Africa, is expected to be launched in January, industry sources told TOI. The Travel Pass is expected to serve as a central and standardised resource for information about all coronavirus-related travel requirements and restrictions and will also contain information about how to conduct and carry test results to show to airlines and border officers around the world. Speaking to TOI, honorary general secretary of the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism & Hospitality (FAITH), Subhash Goyal, said, “The Travel Pass will be a uniform health certificate that is accepted across governments, airlines, accredited laboratories and travellers and will ease international travel.” IATA said the Travel Pass is a necessary prerequisite to reopen borders without quarantine and that governments need to be confident that they are mitigating the risks of importing the virus before they restart aviation. “This means having accurate information on passengers’ Covid-19 health status,” IATA said. Separately, the Indian tourism and travel industry has petitioned the civil aviation ministry to restart scheduled flights to and from countries with which India has established air bubbles. “Along with this, FAITH has also asked the governments to issue e-visas for countries with which air bubbles have been established, and replace the 14-day quarantine for international passengers with a mandatory coronavirus test 96 hours prior to undertaking travel,” Goyal said. Travel industry bodies in India have also sought the government’s intervention in setting up a corpus for bailing out airlines that have gone into the red and have been unable to repay travellers for unutilised tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/coming-in-january-a-health-e-pass-to-help-boost-global-air-travel/articleshow/79634092.cms||Swati Mathur
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Government to take over 60 foreign envoys to vaccine hubs in Hyderabad today||NEW DELHI: As the race for Covid-19 vaccine heats up, the government will organise a visit for foreign envoys to biotech companies leading India’s effort to find an antidote to the virus. Sources said MEA will take more than 60 heads of mission (HoMs) to Bharat Biotech and Biological E in Hyderabad on December 9. The government had on November 6 briefed foreign ambassadors about India’s efforts to contain Covid-19. “This is the first such visit and it will be followed by visits to facilities in other cities,” said a source. An official said India had been contributing significantly to global efforts against Covid-19 and that there was a lot of interest in the country’s vaccine development efforts. “India is the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer. As Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help humanity in fighting this crisis,” he said. Modi had himself visited Bharat Biotech’s vaccine manufacturing facility at Genome valley in Hyderabad where he reviewed the progress of Covaxin, a vaccine candidate being developed by the company. “At the Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, was briefed about their indigenous Covid-19 vaccine. Congratulated the scientists for their progress in the trials so far. Their team is closely working with ICMR to facilitate speedy progress,” he had tweeted after his hour-long visit. Many of the envoys who will visit Hyderabad are from neighbouring countries that have been assured that the government will prioritise supplies to them first once India rolls out the vaccine. “In India and in our neighbourhood, we are moving ahead with phase 3 clinical trials in India. India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the vaccines,” the PM had said in his UNGA address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/government-to-take-over-60-foreign-envoys-to-vaccine-hubs-in-hyderabad-today/articleshow/79634223.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Suspended loco pilot takes a ‘honey-laced’ dig at his boss||NAGPUR: A senior loco pilot with the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR) who was suspended allegedly for raising Covid-related safety issues with the senior officials has offered raw honey to his boss as a gift so that he can boost his immunity and fight the coronavirus, reports Vijay Pinjarkar. The letter was sent by mail/express loco pilot KC Pradhan on November 6 to his boss, senior divisional electrical engineer (SrDEE) Kunal Kapoor, who had suspended him on November 2. Though no reason was specified for the suspension, Pradhan, who has completed 30 years of accident-free service, said that he would be “happy to be kept under suspension till retirement”. Pradhan suspects the action is for raising his voice against lack of preventive measures by the railways during Covid-19. He thinks his suspension may be due to a 17 minute-delay to Vidarbha Express at Nagpur. Pradhan has survived Covid. Due to negligence by railway doctors, he said, the virus affected his family. “You may not care for my health but I’m concerned about you and want to gift you raw honey to boost your immunity,” said his letter to Kapoor. Kapoor refused to talk to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/suspended-loco-pilot-takes-a-honey-laced-dig-at-his-boss/articleshow/79634262.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||6 drop out of vaccine testing in Mumbai, doctors unsure if Chennai news scared them||MUMBAI: Six participants have dropped out of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine ‘Covishield’ trial that is being carried out at KEM Hospital. The institute said that of the 101 participants, 95 returned for the second dose that was to be administered 29 days after the first. KEM and BYL Nair hospitals are the two trial sites in Mumbai for the UK vaccine that is being tested and marketed by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Across the country, 1,600 participants have been enrolled at 17 sites. KEM had originally enrolled 101 participants while Nair had registered 100, which was later increased to 148. The trial sites have completed giving both doses and are now monitoring the immune responses and health of the participants. The trial duration is 180 days, of which over 70 days have passed without reports of any serious adverse event, local doctors said. Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said the participants who dropped out have told the trial team that they were not willing to take the second dose. Doctors said it was difficult to say whether they grew apprehensive after reading reports about the 40-year-old man from Chennai, who claimed to have suffered cognitive issues after taking the vaccine. “We don’t know what scared them. Trials are voluntary and we cannot coax them to give us an explanation,” Deshmukh said. Anil Hebbar, one of the participants in the Oxford trial, said the news of the Chennai man’s claimed adverse event could have scared anybody who had not taken the dose till then. “The trial perhaps should have been stopped or at least the participants should have been informed,” he said. Hebbar said he wrote to SII following which he received a phone call from a company representative saying they did not want to worry the participants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/oxford-trials-6-drop-out-before-second-dose/articleshow/79634281.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 9, 2020||India||Delhi, 4 other states account for 54% of active Covid cases||NEW DELHII: Five states — Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi — account for 54% of the total active Covid-19 cases in the country, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday, underlining the declining trend of the pandemic in India even as many countries are still witnessing a surge of new cases. Pointing to the worsening situation in the US, Turkey, Russia, Brazil and many other countries, Bhushan said India was showing a steady decline in its active case load since mid-September. On Monday, India’s active case load dropped below 4 lakh to 3,83,866 cases. Niti-Aayog member Dr V K Paul said the Covid-19 situation in India had stabilised. With active cases reducing, a "clear-cut declining trend" was being seen even though the situation in many other countries was becoming quite serious, he said. Ten states accounted for 72% of the 26,567 new cases recorded on Monday with Kerala and Maharashtra contributing over 3,000 cases each. West Bengal, Rajasthan and Delhi were among the top five contributing to daily new cases. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 6.5%, whereas the average positivity in the last week was 3.2%. The government, however, emphasised that pandemic control measures including testing, contact tracing, isolation and treatment should continue along with Covid-appropriate behaviour even after a vaccine arrived to ensure breaking the chain of transmission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-4-other-states-account-for-54-of-active-covid-cases/articleshow/79634292.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 9, 2020||India||Bharat bandh disrupts life in a few states||The Bharat bandh called on Tuesday in support of farmers got a lukewarm response across the country, with reports of disruptions of normal life from only a few states like Telangana, Andhra and Odisha. While there were no reports of violence in Punjab, movement of vehicles, including buses, was affected due to closure of roads at various places by farmers. Though government offices were open, attendance was thin as many of the employees joined the protest.  Neighbouring Haryana remained peaceful as farmers sat at various places on state and national highways carrying their tractor-trolleys and hookahs. No political leader was allowed to address the gathering of farmers. In Kaithal, farmers restrained Congress member Randeep Singh Surjewala from addressing the gathering.  In Odisha, normal life was affected as offices, shops, commercial establishments remained largely closed. All state government offices were closed for the day. Buses remained off the road. At least three trains got halted for around one hour in Bhubaneswar as members of Left parties staged rail roko.  The bandh drew mixed response in Jharkhand despite the JMM-Congress-RJD coalition government backing it. In Rajasthan too, despite support from the Congress government, the bandh received mixed response. However, Chhattisgarh, where the Congress and chief minister Bhupesh Baghel came out in support of the bandh, saw widespread impact of the bandh call. Business and establishments stayed shut till 2pm. In Bihar, opposition party leaders and supporters held demonstrations, put up road blockades and disrupted rail and road traffic across the state to register their protest. In western UP, farmers blocked all highways leading to Delhi, but allowed operation of all emergency services. The bandh evoked mixed response in MP too. Many cities felt the impact as many markets were closed. Scores of TRS ministers and MLAs along with leaders blocked national highways, towns in Telangana and in Hyderabad. Businesses were shut and traffic went off the roads for a large part of the day. Normal life was affected in Andhra Pradesh as the state government cancelled public transport services till 1 pm. Government offices also remained closed till 1 pm in support of the farmers. In Kolkata, while business districts like Bowbazar and Burrabazar were hit by the bandh, students blocked roads in Jadavpur and Dhakuria in south Kolkata. About 26 trains were cancelled.  The bandh had little impact in Tamil Nadu Kerala too. In Mumbai, bandh passed off peacefully with normal life largely unaffected. Transport functioned smoothly with buses and taxis running and banks were open. 11 agitators from Punjab & Haryana dead in 13 daysFour protesters who were participating in the farmers’ agitation died in the last 24 hours, taking the toll of farm activists from Punjab and Haryana dying in the past 13 days to 11. While Mewa Singh (48), a resident of Khote village in Punjab’s Moga district died of cardiac arrest at Delhi’s Tikri border on Monday night, Gurmel Kaur (70) from Sangrur district passed away on Tuesday after a suspected heart attack. Gurmel, whose elder son had allegedly committed suicide after failing to repay a farm loan, was sitting on protest at Kalajhar toll plaza in Sangrur district when her health deteriorated. Her relatives have refused to cremate the body and demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation, a complete debt waiver and a government job for a family member. “Mewa Singh is another martyr of the farm struggle. It is the duty of the government to support his family,” said BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. In Haryana, two protesters died of cardiac arrest during the Bharat bandh agitation on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bharat-bandh-disrupts-a-few-states-4-farm-protesters-die/articleshow/79634382.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Congress says BJP misrepresenting its poll promise on APMC Act||NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday accused BJP of misrepresenting its election promise on APMCs as it demanded that the government hold a Parliament session to repeal the contentious farm laws and discuss agri reforms. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the three laws were against the interests of farmers which had brought farmers on the agitational path. He said the bandh called by farmers was completely successful and demonstrated that popular sentiment was against the three controversial laws. Accusing BJP ministers of maligning the farmers’ agitation by alleging that it was funded by foreign forces like Pakistan and China, he demanded that the saffron party apologise to farmers. Hooda slammed BJP for citing Congress’s 2019 manifesto to claim that it had planned to do away with APMCs. The former CM said the promise actually meant that APMCs, to be called farmers’ market, would be further strengthened and taken to even smaller parts of states to reduce the logistical burden on farmers of transporting their produce to big APMCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-says-bjp-misrepresenting-its-poll-promise-on-apmc-act/articleshow/79634458.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Arnab moves HC for stay on TRP case probe||MUMBAI: Arnab Goswami and his company ARG Outlier Media, which runs the channel Republic TV, have petitioned Bombay high court for “urgent” interim orders to stay further investigation by Mumbai police into the alleged TRP scam case and to transfer the probe to CBI. ARG Outlier Media has sought protection of its employees from what it claims is a “malicious witch hunt and abuse of power in an act of political vendetta” against them. On November 24, the police had filed a chargesheet against Ghanshyam Singh, one of their employees, and mentioned as “suspects” the owner of Republic TV and others in the case of alleged TRP manipulation case registered by Kandivli police, said the application filed on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-moves-hc-for-stay-on-trp-case-probe/articleshow/79634472.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Navlakha denied specs in jail, HC says ‘humanity most important’||MUMBAI: Saying that humanity is “most important”, the Bombay high court on Tuesday referred to the theft of jailed activist Gautam Navlakha’s spectacles, and called for a “workshop” to sensitize prison officials. Navlakha is an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Without his spectacles he was almost blind but authorities at Taloja jail near here were not allowing him to get a new pair, his family had alleged. The high court’s observation came in the wake of a struggle by Stan Swamy, another accused in the case, to get a sipper and straw in jail. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said it had learnt about how Navlakha’s spectacles were stolen and the prison authorities refused to accept the new spectacles sent by his family through courier. “Humanity is most important. Everything else will follow. Today, we learnt about Navlakha’s spectacles. This is the high time to conduct a workshop for even jail authorities,” Justice Shinde said. “Can all these small items be denied? These are all humane considerations,” he added. Navlakha’s family members on Monday claimed that his spectacles were stolen on November 27.They claimed that Navlakha is “almost blind” without the spectacles and yet, when they sent a pair of new spectacles to him by post earlier this month, the prison authorities refused to accept it and sent it back. “Presently Gautam Navlakha is in acute distress, is unable to see things around him and consequently his blood pressure has shot up,” read a statement, circulated on Monday evening by Navlakha’s lawyers, signed by his wife Sahba Husain. Navlakha had surrendered before the NIA, which is probing the nearly three- year-old case, on April 14, 2020. Earlier, the lawyers of Stan Swamy (83) had moved the special NIA court seeking that their client be returned the sipper and straw allegedly seized by the NIA at the time of arrest.His hands shake while drinking water because of Parkinson's disease, they said. Swamy was finally provided the two items earlier this month by the prison authorities. The case pertains to the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Maharashtra's Pune district on December 31, 2017, which, the police alleged, was funded by Maoists. The speeches made by some activists at the conclave triggered violence near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial on outskirts of Pune city the next day, according to the police charge sheet. Now the NIA is probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/navlakha-denied-specs-in-jail-hc-says-humanity-most-important/articleshow/79634481.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Can pension be delivered home, HC asks Centre||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court has asked the Centre to clarify whether senior citizens are entitled to receive their pension at home during the prevailing pandemic. A division bench led by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka made this oral observation while hearing a PIL filed by Akhila Karnataka Vayovrudhara Okkoota (Aikyata), an organisation which represents senior citizens seeking enhancement of pension.  Aikyata’s counsel told the court that the guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) advises citizens above 65 years and those with comorbidities to stay at home. To this, the bench said the state cannot expect citizens to go to banks to collect their monthly pension and the issue needs to be addressed by the government by the next hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/can-pension-be-delivered-home-hc-asks-centre/articleshow/79634494.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Tatas value SP’s 18% stake at Rs 80k cr||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Tata Sons opened up a new battlefront with Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) on Tuesday as it valued the minority shareholder’s 18.4% stake in the company up to 61% lower than the latter’s estimate. SP had valued its stake at Rs 1.78 lakh crore, while Tata Sons — in a submission before the Supreme Court on Tuesday — pegged the same at Rs 70,000-80,000 crore. SP is seeking an exit from the holding company of India’s biggest conglomerate after a seven-decade-old relationship turned sour in the last four years. Based on Tuesday’s submission, Tata Sons is worth Rs 3.8-4.3 lakh crore and its valuation of SP’s stake is 55-61% lower than the latter’s own calculations. It is not clear whether Tata Sons has considered SP’s proportionate share in the Tata brand value, which was Rs 1.46 lakh crore, according to Brand Finance’s 2020 ranking. SP, as part of its separation proposal, had suggested swapping its Tata Sons stake for shares worth Rs 1.78 lakh crore in listed Tata companies. The valuation gap means the beginning of another clash between the two revered Parsi groups, which have been locked in a legal battle since 2016, when SP scion Cyrus Mistry was removed from the chairman’s post of Tata Sons in a boardroom coup. Earlier this year, SP sought to pledge its Tata Sons stake to raise money amid the Covid pandemic, but the attempt was blocked by the holding company by moving the apex court. Tata Sons told the SC that it was open to buying SP’s share if the latter needed funds. In September, SP announced its decision to exit from Tata Sons as it realised it was stuck with an investment which could not be easily monetised due to restrictive share transfer clauses. A prolonged battle will, however, not do any good for SP as it is hard-pressed for funds for its construction and real estate businesses. The latest valuation of Tata Sons, based on its estimate of SP’s stake, is not far from the holding company’s 2016 worth of Rs 3.14 lakh crore as calculated by noted chartered accountant Y H Malegam. Tata Sons officials have been citing applicability of illiquidity discounts to the valuation of the holding company. On Tuesday, Tata Sons also argued before the Supreme Court that though the law empowers a judicial body to appoint and remove a director from the board of a company, its power under section 242 is “nuanced and for specific purpose”. It is the controlling shareholder who has the right to make appointments on the board of the company. The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) had removed N Chandrasekaran from the chairman’s post at Tata Sons who was appointed after Mistry’s exit. The NCLAT had reinstated Mistry as the holding company’s chairman. Tata Sons argued that under “normal corporate democracy”, a shareholder with an 18.4% stake would not be able to get a single seat on the board of the company, while a controlling shareholder (Tata Trusts, which holds 68% in Tata Sons) would be able to fill the board with its nominees. Tata Sons further said that Mistry was not appointed chairman under any right of the minority shareholder. But by reinstating him, the NCLAT went against the majority’s wish, giving the minority the reins of the company, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-value-sps-18-stake-at-rs-80k-cr/articleshow/79634130.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 9, 2020||Business||CEOs take over talent reins from HR after Covid crisis||By Raj BowenFor years, there has been a rich debate going on in corporate circles around the question: ‘How much of his time must a CEO give to talent issues?’ In Peter Drucker’s classic HBR article on this topic, he noted, “Executives spend more time on managing people and making people decisions than on anything else — and they should. No other decisions are so long lasting in their consequences or so difficult to unmake.” Taking this into practice, the legendary (and controversial) GE boss Jack Welch was reported to be spending over half his time as the CEO on hiring exceptional talent or leadership development work. Over the years, I have had the opportunity to interact very closely with CEOs across industries and organisation — from startups to family owned large businesses and MNCs. There has been a very distinct shift where, as a natural offshoot of domain specialisation, the talent agenda appears to have been progressively ‘outsourced’ to the CHRO. A few notable exceptions stand out where the CHRO and CEO function almost as ‘organisation-building twins’, but these remain exceptions. This shift of accountability, following strong organisation-structure logic, has had implications on talent and business strategy alignment — some providing tailwinds to the organisation and others unwittingly throwing up barriers to sustainable growth and success. Over the last six months, the coronavirus pandemic hit businesses in varying ways, ranging from frantic ramp-up of facilities, infrastructure, money-spend and talent to rapid scaling down of operations, wage cuts, cost cuts and letting go of people. In this scenario, as I interacted with many of the same CEOs, who had progressively let go of the talent reins to the CHRO, the new narrative appears very different. Almost without exception, across businesses, the CEO seems to be pulling back a lot of the talent issues onto his plate. Interestingly, the agenda seems to be showing an almost universally common pattern across businesses… ‘Productivity’ This word has been more popular in the shop floor environment and later in technology enabled businesses where measurement metrics were clear. As functions grew in organisations, many of them assumed a life of their own — often at the cost of forming silos that slowed down organisational effectiveness. These large functions continued to defy sharp tracking of talent productivity. The result was that talent accumulation, where the number of people in the function started being seen as a sign of relative importance, and the lens never really got trained on individual productivity. Almost overnight, the Covid impact shattered the myths that had protected largely bloated and unprotected ‘teams’ and the output of dispersed employees started getting measured. Now, suddenly the CEO wants to have a direct line of sight into the productivity of may be not all, but the critical role holders with a dual agenda: (a) How does the role holder ‘produce’ more? — which is effectiveness. (b) Does the role need to exist on its own or can two or more roles be merged and redundant talent either redeployed or let go of? — which is an indirect way of asking ‘what different things can the same employee do, without the need to add more headcount?’. Both these attributes had always been there in the domain of the HR function, but very often remained as relatively ‘soft’ areas that did not warrant the CEO’s personal involvement. Talent effectiveness often boiled down to holding a large number of managers accountable for the results produced by an even larger number of employees. This train invariably carried many passengers, misled by a flawed interpretation of Pareto’s law that, in any group, 20% of the members produce 80% of the results — and that’s okay. So, ‘performance’ meant that a manager must ‘get a team member to perform’. Suddenly, the smart CEO is asking why a talented employee — set into the right role and equipped with the right tools and aligned with clear output goals — needs a manager at all? This is flying against years of ingrained practice as suddenly the managers are worried they will become redundant as most of their time, which went into ‘getting team members to deliver’, is now free. This new question being posed by the CEO is bringing up a very energising business driver out of ‘annual survey’ cupboards — ‘employee engagement’. Now, the CEO is almost saying, “I want every employee to be so excited and so enthusiastic about his role that he does not need a manager to just follow up with him and more often be a barrier to his work.” Again, Drucker’s words ring true: “Most of what we call management, consists of making it difficult for people to get their work done.” Linked to the CEO’s need to ensure individual-level role engagement is the fresh interest in “what other talents do employees have that we may have never really leveraged?”. This diversity of talent had always remained hidden in the archaic measures that labelled a bunch of employees as ‘high potential’ and the rest as, well, just employees. The new question being asked by the CEO is, “Who has potential for what else?” This recognition of the unique value-creation ability of every single employee is again sounding new to many of the regular HR measures, which put a yes or no on a unidimensional view of employee potential. These two questions are pushing many organisations away from their “we have a talent shortage” complaint to an almost apologetic admission: “We are suffering from talent myopia.” The good news is that, for those CEOs and CHROs who are now willing to throw out the baby and the bathwater of redundant talent spotting and engagement methods, there are tools and processes readily available. The gutsy ones are stepping up to explore the new ways that make sense in the world that’s forming now. The others are waiting for Covid to end. (The writer is managing partner, EMA Decision Dynamics)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ceos-take-over-talent-reins-from-hr-after-covid-crisis/articleshow/79634140.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||632 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths surface in U’khand||Dehradun: With 632 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Tuesday, the coronavirus tally crossed the 79,000-mark in Uttarakhand. Among those tested positive for the virus on the day were — Director General (health) Dr Amita Upreti, Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) of Champawat, and district magistrate and CDO of Bageshwar. According to the health department, the maximum of 279 cases of coronavirus were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 92 in Nainital, 54 in Haridwar, 44 in Pithoragarh, 30 in Tehri, 27 in Udham Singh Nagar, 22 in Almora, 18 in Uttarkashi, 17 in Chamoli, 15 in Pauri, 14 in Bageshwar, 11 in Champawat, and nine in Rudraprayag. “The Covid-19 tally reached 79,141 on Tuesday. Dr Amita Upreti, DG of health department, also tested positive on the day. Her husband, too, was infected till last month and was recently discharged from hospital,” said GC Pandey from state health department. Apart from the fresh cases, 12 coronavirus-related deaths were also reported in the state, taking the toll of the virus to 1,307. “Among the 12 deaths, eight were recorded in Dehradun, three in Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College,Haldwani and one in Bageshwar,” added Pandey. According to additional CMO Bageshwar Dr Bansidhar Joshi, DM Vineet Kumar got himself tested after he suffered Covid-19 like symptoms. “Both the CMO and the DM had conducted meetings with department officials on Monday. We will be tracing all the primary contacts and they will be tested as per the guidelines,” added Dr Joshi. Meanwhile, 436 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/632-new-covid-19-cases-12-deaths-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/79630329.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 9, 2020||Business||Gems, jewellery exports recover 95% to $2.4bn||Chennai: At $2.5 billion, gems and jewellery exports in November posted a 95% recovery as compared to the same month last year. Exports from India, which polishes about 90% of the world’s rough diamonds, had plunged 99% at the start of the fiscal year in April, due to the strict lockdown. Many jewellery and diamond-cutting production centres were either closed or operating at very low levels earlier in the year.Net exports of gems and jewellery were lower by 44% at $11.4 billion between April and November, as compared to the year-ago period. Overseas shipments began to recover in September. Exports of cut and polished diamonds were lower by 33% at $8.9 billion, and those of gold jewellery were down 70% at $2.4 billion between April and November. However, exports of silver jewellery grew by 61% growth to $1.4 billion during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gems-jewellery-exports-recover-95-to-2-4bn/articleshow/79632308.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 9, 2020||Business||PSB stocks rally on equity issue plans||Mumbai: Shares of Canara Bank, Punjab National Bank (PNB) and Union Bank of India firmed up on plans for equity issues, triggering the biggest single-day rally for public sector banks (PSBs). Canara Bank was up over 16% at Rs 137, while shares of Indian Bank and PNB rose 15.4% and 13.7%, respectively. Bank of India, Bank of Baroda and Union Bank stocks also rose by 8-9%. Canara Bank shares hit a 9-month high after it set a floor price of Rs 103.5 per share for its qualified institutional placement (QIP) to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore. PNB is holding road shows for its proposed QIP issue of Rs 7,000 crore. This could increase PNB’s capital adequacy ratio by up to 14%. Union Bank had earlier said that it will hold an extraordinary general meeting on December 30 to to obtain shareholders’ approval for raising of equity capital up to Rs 6,800 crore during the current fiscal. The bank said that it would raise equity either by way of public issue, rights issue, or private placement including QIP or preferential allotment to the government. Besides the capital-raising plans, there is optimism that PSBs may not have to restructure as many loans as originally envisaged. Large lenders say that they are expecting only a couple of companies to seek restructuring under the aegis of the Kamath committee, which applies to loans above Rs 1,500 crore. The RBI’s decision to keep interest rates low has also increased the profits from treasury operations since a large chunk of the banks’ assets are in the form of debt instruments, which appreciate when interest rates go down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/psb-stocks-rally-on-equity-issue-plans/articleshow/79633852.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Ace Turtle to get Lee, Wrangler brand rights||Bengaluru: Ace Turtle, an e-commerce solutions provider to traditional retailers, is getting the India licence of iconic US denim brands Lee and Wrangler, two sources aware of the matter said. US firm Kontoor Brands, which owns these labels, confirmed the development to TOI without naming the Bengaluru-based Ace Turtle. They said Lee and Wrangler will be sold through a new licensee partner in India. This marks the growing importance of e-commerce for brick-and-mortar retailers and fashion brands to revive sales in the middle of a pandemic. Both these brands have been looking for a new licensee for India for sometime and the deal has finally happened, one of the sources mentioned above said. “To adapt to a market that is increasingly online and, as part of a strategy to ensure maximum reach and access to customers across India, our much-loved brands, Lee and Wrangler, will be sold through a digitally connected network of online retailers and branded brick-and-mortar stores. To do this, Kontoor Brands will be moving from direct marketing and distribution to working alongside a new, long-term local licensee partner, which we believe presents exciting e-commerce and omnichannel focused opportunities for the Lee and Wrangler brands to flourish in India,” a spokesperson of Kontoor Brands said. An Ace Turtle spokesperson declined to comment on the matter. With e-commerce emerging as a preferred choice of shopping, Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail also recently sold nearly 8% stake to Walmart-owned e-tailer Flipkart. The latter has also picked up a stake in denim brand Flying Machine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ace-turtle-to-get-lee-wrangler-brand-rights/articleshow/79634110.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||AAP U’khand chief, other party workers booked for violating distancing norms during protest march||Dehradun: A day after the Uttarakhand unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers held a protest in support of farmers, Dehradun police on Tuesday booked the party’s state chief SS Kaler and other party workers for violating social distancing norms and taking out the protest march without taking permission from the local administration. SS Kaler, who led the protest march from Kalidas Road tri-junction, and other party workers have been booked under sections 188, 269, and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 3 of the Epidemic Act, and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. According to police officials, the AAP party leaders failed to show the required permission to take out the protest rally. Notably, the AAP protest march was stopped by the police near Hathibarkala. It is worth mentioning that the AAP party has extended support to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three farm bills introduced by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-ukhand-chief-other-party-workers-booked-for-violating-distancing-norms-during-protest-march/articleshow/79630345.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 9, 2020||Business||Sundaram Brake settles dispute with I-T dept||Chennai: Sundaram Brake Linings had an outstanding dispute with Income Tax department with respect to extraordinary expenditure which has now been settled. With a view to settle the pending dispute through Direct Tax Vivad Se Vishwas Act, 2020, the company has effected the payment of Rs 6.32 crore on December 2, 2020. The lncome Tax department has passed orders for full and final settlement of the tax dispute and the appeals pending before High Court, Chennai will be withdrawn by the lT Department, The company will reverse in the FY 2021 excess provision of Rs 4.22 crore out of the lT liability for Rs 10.54 crore created in the books of accounts after adjusting the payment of Rs 6.32 crore paid under Vivad-se-Vishwas scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sundaram-brake-settles-dispute-with-i-t-dept/articleshow/79632152.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bandh disrupts life in Bihar||PATNA: Bharat bandh called by farmers and supported by the opposition parties drew a mixed response in Bihar on Tuesday. While some districts witnessed heavy protests, road blockades and shutting of commercial places, at other places the bandh passed off without much impact. Highways remained paralyzed on NH-28 and NH-31 in Begusarai for over four hours and agitators also blocked traffic near the railway station and other landmarks by the Left parties and RJD workers. Second-year degree examination of LN Mithila University also had to be postponed because of the bandh. Samastipur district witnessed a significant impact of the bandh with the opposition parties blocking roads and most shops remaining closed. RJD MLA Akhtarul Islam Shaheen and CPI-ML leader Surendra Prasad Singh led protests at two locations. West Champaran witnessed a mixed response with shops in Bettiah, Narakatiaganj, Ramnagar and Bagaha remaining partially shut. Protest marches were taken out by RJD, Congress and CPI-ML. Traffic on NH-727 near Bettiah was disrupted and state highways also witnessed blockades. In Chhapra, first time CPM MLA from Manjhi, Satyendra Yadav, RJD MLA from Ekma Shrikant Yadav and Marhaura MLA Jitendra Rai were seen actively leading the protest. Agitators disrupted traffic at Brahampur on NH-19 causing problems for passengers coming from Siwan and Uttar Pradesh. Bandh supporters in Bhagalpur led peaceful demonstrations and a majority of offices and other establishments functioned normally. In Madhubani district, public transport was largely disrupted on Tuesday. Shops and businesses establishments, however, remained open. In Ara, CPI (ML) leaders and workers led by Agiyaon MLA Manoj Manzil blocked the Ara-Patna main road ( NH -30). They also blocked Ara-Sasaram main road, Ara-Arwal road at Sahar among others. In Gaya, Mahagathbandhan workers took out a procession from Rai Kashinath Mor to Tower chowk. JAP national spokesman Rajiv Kumar Kanhaiya said, “Our party will launch an agitation on December 23 from Champaran”. On the other hand, RJD activists offered roses to shop owners. In Sitamarhi, vehicles were off the road till afternoon causing hardship to commuters. Farmers and political party workers blocked the busy Mehsaul and Kargil bypass Chowks. In Nawada, Congress worker Navin Paswan carried a 35 kg plough on his shoulder as a mark of protest. He was accompanied by Hisua MLA Nitu Singh and district president Mantan Singh. The bandh had little impact in East Champaran district. With Inputs from Rajiv Kumar (Begusarai), SK Jain (Samastipur), Tirthraj Kushwaha (West Champaran), HK Verma (Saran), Kumar Rajesh (Bhagalpur), CS Jha Azad (Madhubani), Praveen (Ara), Deo Narayan Saha (Madhepura), Alok Kumar (Gaya), Shyam Kishore Singh (Sitamarhi), SB Sinha (Nawada) and Chandra Bhushan Pandey (Motihari)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bandh-disrupts-life-in-bihar/articleshow/79630214.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Patna||Opposition lends support to agitating farmers in Bihar||PATNA: The Bharat bandh called by farmer unions and trade organisations in protest against the Centre’s new farm saw opposition parties holding protests, demonstrations, putting up road blockades and disrupting rail and road traffic in the state on Tuesday. Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, however, remained conspicuous by his absence during the bandh. The leaders of RJD, Congress, Left parties and Pappu Yadav-led JAP (L) took part in protests in the state capital. “This has not happened for the first time when Tejashwi skipped agitations. In fact, he is little concerned about people. For him, family is more important,” JD(U) MLC Neeraj Kumar said. In Patna, the leaders and workers of RJD, Congress, Left parties and JAP took out protest marches, held demonstrations and disrupted traffic at different locations amid heavy deployment of police forces and the magistrates. However, the traffic in the state capital largely remained normal. Autorickshaws and city buses plied as usual. However, the traffic at the Dakbungalow intersection remained disrupted for some hours when the bandh supporters virtually overpowered the constables manning the traffic and burned the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Niitsh Kumar. It was a harrowing time for commuters on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu, where traffic remained disrupted due to road blockade at the Hajipur end of the bridge. Traffic at Ramashish Chowk was also blocked by the bandh supporters, leading to long queues of vehicles both in Patna and Hajipur in Vaishali district. A newly-wed couple remained stranded for hours in traffic congestion at Bhagwanpur near Sarai in Vaishali district. The examinees of the constable recruitment examination had to face problems at some, places but were allowed after they showed their admit cards. ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said, “There has been no report of any untoward incident from any district. Heavy deployment of police forces with magistrates was made across the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-lends-support-to-agitating-farmers/articleshow/79630241.cms||Ramashankar
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bharat Bandh: Trains detained at many places in Bihar||PATNA: Movement of special passenger trains was partially affected at different places in the state on Tuesday due to the farmer-sponsored Bharat bandh to protest farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. There was, however, no report of damage caused to railway property anywhere in the state. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said bandh supporters stopped Rajgir-New Delhi Shramjeevi Express at Biharsharif for about 15 minutes. Several bandh supporters squatted on rail tracks with banners and flags. They, however, freed rail tracks after security personnel intervened. The bandh supporters stopped Danapur-Tata Nagar special train at Jhajha for about 20 minutes. Train movement between Patna and Parsa Bazar on the Patna-Gaya section of the Danapur division was also paralysed for about half an hour, the CPRO said, adding some bandh supporters sat on tracks for a while in Jehanabad as well. At Dheena station near Buxar, at least five special passenger trains were detained by the bandh supporters for about two hours. The affected special passenger trains included Patna-Indore special and Danapur-Lokmanya Tilak special. These trains resumed their onward journey after the tracks were cleared by the railway security personnel. The bandh supporters also stopped Dhanbad-Patna special on the PG section of the Danapur division of ECR for a while, the CPRO said. In Samastipur division of ECR, the bandh supporters stopped Sealdah-Jayanagar special (03185), Jayanagar-Manihari special (05284) and Darbhanga-Secunderabad special (07008) at Laheriasarai for about half an hour. The Darbhanga-New Delhi Sampark Kranti Express (02565) was detained for about 35 minutes at Darbhanga and Saharsa-Saraigarh DEMU special (05516) at Supaul for about half an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trains-detained-at-many-places-in-bihar/articleshow/79630252.cms||Kumod Verma
December 9, 2020||Business||Finance, manufacturing to lead hiring next year||CHENNAI: The job market is looking up and companies are upping their intentions to hire more with finance, insurance and manufacturing sectors dominating the pipeline. HR firm ManpowerGroup’s quarterly net employment outlook (NEO) for the January-March 2021 quarter stood at 5% compared to 3% and 4% in the preceding two quarters, respectively. While hiring prospects improved compared to the previous quarter, they fell by 4 percentage points in comparison with year-ago period during the pre-Covid period. Net employment outlook refers to employers’ intentions to increase or decrease the number of employees in their workforces during the next quarter. Nearly 65% of employers surveyed by ManpowerGroup said they “may return to pre-Covid hiring” within nine months as compared to 44% that conveyed similar sentiment in the last quarter. Only 10% of the surveyed enterprises remain unsure about returning to normalcy from a hiring perspective, compared to 42% in the previous quarter. “Corporate India is showing healthy signs of recovery and an overall positive sentiment is gripping the market. Many of the deep-rooted structural factors that have sustained Indian economy over the years like geopolitical stability, diversified economy, demography, etc, are likely to play a pivotal role in the new normal,” Sandeep Gulati, MD of ManpowerGroup India, said. Finance, insurance, and manufacturing sector feature among the sectors most optimistic of accelerating hiring plans with the net employment outlook of 11%. Manufacturing enterprises’ employers report encouraging signs for job seekers with an 8% outlook. While manufacturing reported the most notable increase of 7 percentage points from the previous quarter, the job market is set to be more subdued in the education and transportation sector where hiring prospects weakened by 3 percentage points and 6 percentage points, respectively. In the next quarter, the strongest pace of hiring may be seen in small organisations followed by large and medium ones. The ManpowerGroup Employment Outlook survey for January-March 2021 is based on responses from 1,518 employers in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/finance-mfg-to-lead-hiring-next-yr/articleshow/79632203.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||New farm bills make farmers weak: TRS MLC Kalvakuntla Kavitha||HYDERABAD: MLC and former MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha participated in the protest on national highway 44 at Tetriyal village in Nizamabad district. “The bills make the farmers weak and do not take into consideration the stability and security of our farmers. The absence of MSP in the act, she said, leads to a direct entry of private players. “There are three crucial aspects of agriculture — seeds, fertilisers and farm produce. While the access of seeds and fertilisers has been given to private players that has visibly led to an unregulated market, if farm produce is also opened for the private sector. we can foresee the future of the same,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bills-make-farmers-weak-kavitha/articleshow/79632952.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bharat bandh complete flop, say ruling parties||PATNA: The ruling NDA and the opposition dubbed the impact of Tuesday’s Bharat bandh called by the farmer unions on expected lines. While NDA allies BJP and JD(U) described the bandh as “flop and unjustified”, the opposition parties said it was “huge success and historic”. State JD(U) spokespersons Sanjay Singh and Rajiv Ranjan described the bandh as unsuccessful. “The opposition parties supported the bandh to regain their lost position,” they said. “There was no justification for the bandh call when the central government was having detailed discussions with the farmers,” JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan said. He claimed the then Union agriculture minister Sharad Pawar, in his letter to the state governments in August 2010, had asked them to incorporate the same provisions in the laws as has been done by the Centre today. State BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel described the bandh as “flop” as it “did not get support from common people and even the farmers”. Meanwhile, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha said the Centre enacted the farm laws and anti-youth policies to help the capitalists. “The Centre will have to withdraw the three farm laws,” he added. CPI(ML) state secretary Kunal said nothing less than the withdrawal of the three farm laws and proposed electricity Bill and guaranteed purchase of the farm produce of the farmers at the MSP rates will be acceptable to them. CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey and others took out a march to Dak Bungalow from their office at Janshakti Bhavan here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bharat-bandh-complete-flop-say-ruling-parties/articleshow/79630227.cms||Abhay Singh
December 9, 2020||Agra||Four killed, 12 hurt in Mathura road accident||Agra: Poor visibility due to fog, caused a Max-pickup to crash into a tractor parked near Tatigaon village in Mathura on Monday night, resulting in the death of four people who were travelling in it. Twelve were injured. According to police, 35 people were travelling in the vehicle when the accident took place, around 1 am. The passengers were residents of Mathura and were on way home after attending an engagement ceremony in Haryana’s Palwal. The deceased were identified as Yadram (50), Ramu (50), Rajjo (60) and Suresh Rawat (65). The injured were admitted to various hospitals in the town, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/four-killed-12-hurt-in-mathura-road-accident/articleshow/79630333.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Pandemic reduced pesky calls: Survey||Chennai: In a silver lining, the pandemic has reduced the menace of unsolicited calls for mobile users in India. India saw 16.8 spam calls per user per month in the period, down from 25.6 last year. The incidence of spam calls received by users in India during January to October 2020 decreased by 34%, the country dropped down to ninth position globally, from fifth a year ago, in terms of number of spam calls, in smartphone app Truecaller’s annual study. In 2017, Indian were the worst affected with pesky callers. According to the report, “Majority of spam calls in India come from domestic numbers (98.5%), and strict curfews and lockdowns in India made it harder for telemarketers to go to work, or utilize the equipment they need to carry out large scale spam campaigns.” For the first-time, Truecaller also analysed state-level data in India — which is Truecaller’s largest market with 185 million monthly active users. Gujarat received the most spam calls in 2020 (13.5% of total) followed closely by Maharashtra (13.2%) and Andhra Pradesh (9.5%). However, in line with growth of cyberattacks during the pandemic, the number of scam calls grew from 6% to 9% in the period. Truecaller’s analysis showed that KYC and OTP related calls, wherein scammers seek sensitive) information about your financials or secret OTP, is gaining traction in India. Eight out of 10 women (80%) in India receive sexual harassment or inappropriate calls and SMS regularly, compared to around 34% last year. In terms of spammer categories, telecom operators continue to be the top spammers in India with 52% calls received for upselling of various offers. Telemarketing services are emerging as big spammers recording 34% spam calls compared to 17% last year. Globally, spam calls reached their lowest point in April when strict curfews and lock downs were implemented. The volume of calls also dipped during this period. In May, spam calls started to pick up again and since then increased on average by 9.7% per month. October’s spam calls tally was 22.4% higher than the pre-lockdown period. The biggest increase of spam calls was recorded in Europe and the US. Hungary has seen the biggest jump (1132%), followed by Germany (685%), Belgium (557%) and Romania (395%).Indonesia (18.3 calls per user per month), India (16.8), Vietnam (14.7) and Russia (14.3) are the most affected countries in Asia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-reduced-pesky-calls-survey/articleshow/79632125.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 9, 2020||Business||TVS Srichakra lines up Rs 1K cr expansion plan||Chennai: At a time when most companies are cutting or freezing capex, two and three wheeler tyre maker TVS Srichakra has announced a Rs 1,000 crore spend to ramp up manufacturing in its Madurai and Pantnagar plants. This investment will be made over a three year period. When complete, this ramp up will result in a 25%-30% increase in two and three wheeler tyre capacity as well as doubling of off-highway tyre capacity from current levels. The company plans to fund this investment with a mix of debt and internal accruals, a company statement said. Last financial year, the company had announced the launch of its new brand TVS Eurogrip as well as a new range of products. It had also announced the setting up of its product design centre in Milan, Italy, in FY 19-20. TVS Eurogrip has been focusing on furthering its gain in the aftermarket while strengthening its OE presence. “TVS Eurogrip will further expand its portfolio in domestic and global markets,” said the statement. S Ravichandran, director, TVS Srichakra said, “We are strengthening our manufacturing capabilities to cater to the growing demands in India and abroad. This capital outlay will enable TVS Eurogrip to further its growth aspirations and help strengthen its partnerships with vehicle manufacturers.” “The expansion program being undertaken will focus on setting up additional capacities in this space to cater to growing demand across its customer base — both domestically and globally,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tvs-srichakra-lines-up-rs-1k-cr-expansion-plan/articleshow/79632165.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||RuralBasket raises $5 million||Chennai: Farm-to-home offline and online grocery venture RuralBasket has raised $5 million from investor Nativelead Foundation. RuralBasket, a startup initiative from Tirunelveli-based Lapsina Technologies will use the funds to expand its footprint across the state by scaling its operations to 22 retail outlets by 2022. Kickstarting its expansion plans in Tamil Nadu, RuralBasket launched its third store in TN at Medavakkam, Chennai on Tuesday.Palani Rajan, CEO, RuralBasket said the company wants to be a one-stop-shop that offers natural products by cutting down middlemen. Issac Devaraj, COO, RuralBasket said the fundraising was encouraging and motivating for budding entrepreneurs from tier-2 cities. “This directly impacts the people/farmers we very closely work with and help our goal of building 10,000 ruralpreneurs in the near future,” he said.RuralBasket's products are naturally grown, pesticide-free and directly sourced from the farmers by working in partnership with 15 Farmer Producer Organization and 50 women Self Help Groups. RuralBasket's outlet houses more than 500 products such as millets, grocery & staples, homemade readymade mixes , home essentials, beauty care and native snacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ruralbasket-raises-5-million/articleshow/79632138.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
December 9, 2020||Patna||Solving land disputes top priority: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday said more than 60% of crimes in the state occur due to land-related disputes and solving such disputes is the top priority of his government. He asked the state’s revenue and land reforms department officials to strengthen circle and revenue offices and take all necessary steps to minimize land-related disputes across the state so that peace prevails in the state. While reviewing the works of revenue and land reforms department at ‘Sankalp’ hall of the CM residence, Nitish told officials to find a solution that will stop people from making any illegal changes in the ownership of land. The CM said he started ‘Janata Ke Darbar Mein Mukhyamantri’ programme soon after coming into power in 2005. “Most of the complaints which came up in the programme were related to land disputes. Many of the land disputes were related to the members of the same family. After assessing and studying different aspects of the land disputes, the state government brought new legislation. We found that more than 60 per cent of crimes in the state have their roots in land-related disputes,” Nitish said. He said several exemplary works of development were executed in the state in the past 15 years. This led to a sharp rise in the cost of land in the state. “Some people indulge in corruption in the business of sale and purchase of lands,” he said. CM further said, “The DM and the SP must hold a joint meeting once in a month to solve only land-related disputes. The SDO and the SDPO will hold a similar joint meeting at the sub-division level once in a fortnight while the circle office and the station house officer once in a week. The officials should take stern actions against those who are found guilty of doing wrongs in the matter of land transfer.” CM further ordered that the original documents of lands are kept in the circle offices and all such documents should be scanned to protect them. Nitish also said the circle officers should be utilized for departmental works. “Except a few works of disaster management, the circle officers who happen to be the custodian of land records, should not be given any other works. They should be asked to focus on the land-related issues,” he said. CM also asked the officials to complete the ongoing special survey of land at a war footing. “The special survey of the land is being conducted in 90 blocks of 20 districts,” an official told TOI on Tuesday. Earlier, the revenue and land reforms department’s additional chief secretary Vivek Kumar Singh made a presentation before the CM on the works of land reforms being done by the department. Besides the revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar, Chief Secretary Deepak Kumar, several top officers of the state attended the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/solving-land-disputes-top-priority-cm/articleshow/79630586.cms||Madan Kumar
December 9, 2020||Patna||Patna: Over 40% fall in OPD patients at PMCH, NMCH due to bandh||PATNA: The Bharat bandh called by the farmers and supported by the opposition on Tuesday drastically affected patient arrivals at the two top government hospitals —the PMCH and the NMCH— with both registering a 40 to 50% fall in OPD patients. The total number of OPD patients at PMCH on Tuesday was 891 as compared to the daily count of 1200 to 1600 patients, confirmed PMCH principal Dr VP Choudhary. He, however, added, “All scheduled surgeries conducted and there was no report of any unauthorised absence of doctors or staff due to the bandh.” The PMCH emergency registered over 550 patients in 24 hours, including those referred from different places of the state and this figure was almost the same as on other days, said the chief casualty medical officer Dr Abhijit Singh. He added that trauma patients, be it accidental injury or medical emergency, continued rushing in at all hours. “No case of injury due to violence during the Bharat bandh reached the PMCH emergency by 5 pm,” Dr Abhijit further said. The situation was similar at the NMCH. Altogether 410 patients reached the OPDs while this number on Monday was 995, said the medical superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh. “Usually, we get 700 to 1,000 patients daily in OPDs,” he said, adding, no case of Bandh violence was reported at the hospital till 4 pm. The Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh said there was no report of any disturbance in any primary health centres or with government ambulances ferrying patients. The functioning of Mahavir Cancer Sansthan hardly faced any impact of the bandh with about 800 patients arriving for consultation and other services, informed the superintendent, Dr LB Singh. Lok Nayak Jai Prakash hospital too remained unaffected and, according to its director Dr Subhash Chandra, about 800 patients including 100 new, reached there for treatment of various problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-40-fall-in-opd-patients-at-pmch-nmch-due-to-bandh/articleshow/79630274.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Farmers’ strike was unjustified, says Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: Former deputy CM and newly elected Rajya Sabha member from the state Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday said there was no need and justification for the Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers since the Centre had been engaging them in talks to address their concerns. Modi also said Bihar was the first state in the country to repeal the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act way back in 2006, which in the process helped improve the condition of farmers. This also led to higher GSDP growth rate of the state compared to Punjab. Modi said this at a function organized by the party’s Mahila Morcha to felicitate him for his election to the Rajya Sabha. The function also honoured Vijay Kumar Sinha’s election as the Speaker of the state assembly, deputy CMs Tar Kishore Prasad and Renu Devi, as well as ministers Amrendra Pratap Singh, Mangal Pandey, Ram Surat Rai, Jeewesh Kumar, Ramprit Paswan, and party functionary Shiv Narayan. Modi further said, “Like Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has also developed the habit of vanishing from during critical situations as he did during the ‘chamki bukhar’ affliction in the state or waterlogging in Patna, and even absented himself from the proceedings of the state assembly.” “If Tejashwi continues to vanish, then BJP will get more opportunities to serve the people of the state,” Modi quipped, adding the opposition parties by extending support to the Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers’ organisations, were trying to create an atmosphere against the central and state governments. “The Bihar government will continue to serve the people of the state for the next five years,” Modi added. Other dignitaries, who were felicitated also spoke on the occasion. Speaker Sinha said he would strive to rise to the expectations of the party’s workers and people of the state in running the proceedings of the state assembly. The BJP has got its first Speaker in Sinha, and first woman deputy CM in Renu Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-strike-was-unjustified-says-sumo/articleshow/79630372.cms||Abhay Singh
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Experts call for proper utilization of water resources||PATNA: Water resources, an effective instrument of poverty alleviation which plays a key role in the economic development of the state, is not getting due attention of the planners and policymakers in Bihar, according to experts. There is an uneven distribution of surface water and groundwater resources in the state, leading to an acute shortage of potable water in several regions. The state water policy is yet to be made effective for ensuring optimum utilisation of water resources, point out experts. “Last year, following severe drought-like condition in May and June the state government had planned to bring a Bill on groundwater conservation in the monsoon session of the assembly. But for some reason it wasn't introduced in the assembly,” Central Ground Water Board former director Shambhunath said. In 2006, the state minor irrigation department had proposed to set up the State Ground Water Authority on the lines of the central authority, but it is yet to materialise. The much-publicised Jal Jeevan Hariyali Mission launched by the state government is unlikely to succeed in the absence of regulatory measures, experts apprehend. “The proposed Bihar Ground Water Conservation Bill 2019 was supposed to ensure better management and conservation of groundwater, the level of which is going down very fast. The passage of the bill would not only regulate water use but also focus on water conservation by digging out ponds and cleaning choked water bodies to recharge the groundwater,” Shambhunath added. CGWB regional director A K Agrawal points out the bumper crop production this year due to adequate rainfall (La Nina effect), and all depleted aquifers recharged sufficiently but this precious groundwater needs to conserved for future. “If indiscriminate exploitation of groundwater resources for agricultural and industrial uses is allowed to continue, the state would again face drought-like condition. Hence, the 'State Ground Water Authority' should be created at the earliest. Such authorities have already tackled the water crisis effectively in several states, including UP and Punjab,” he said. Surprisingly, even the groundwater directorate attached to the state minor irrigation department, which used to carry out extensive studies on groundwater resources, was scrapped leaving all groundwater development work in the lurch, regrets environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh. “This directorate must be revived immediately for regulating the use f groundwater resources and successful implementation of Jal, Jiwan, Hariyali mission in the state,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-call-for-proper-utilization-of-water-resources/articleshow/79630393.cms||B K Mishra
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation mayor to face no-trust vote today||BHAGALPUR: The no-confidence motion served by 28 ward councillors of Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC) against mayor Seema Saha and deputy mayor Rajesh Verma would be tabled on Wednesday. Both the groups claimed majority support in the house of 51 ward councillors. Of the 51 ward councillors, one is no more. Therefore, the group that gets the support of 26 ward councillors will be the winner. BMC commissioner J Priyadarshani said the no-confidence motion was served by 28 ward councillors on December 2. Voting on the motion will be held in the presence of an independent observer in the rank of senior ADM from district administration, the BMC commissioner said. Major charges against the mayor and the deputy mayor are related to working inefficiency, inadequate efforts in the developmental schemes and unhygienic conditions prevailing in the town due to improper sanitisation work. Sanjay Kumar Sinha and Md Umar Chand, councillors of ward numbers 21 and 27, respectively, who took the lead in moving no-confidence motion, said they enjoy the support of majority of councillors. The mayor, on the other hand, claimed the motion would be defeated. She, however, blamed BMC officials for poor sanitation facilities in the town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bmc-mayor-to-face-no-trust-vote-today/articleshow/79630485.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Kabar lake’s Ramsar site tag fails to enthuse farmers||BEGUSARAI: While the declaration of Kabar lake in Begusarai as the state’s first Ramsar site has enthused the bird watchers and eco lovers, there has been a growing discontent among farmers living in surrounding areas of the lake, who think they are devoid of their farming rights and other related activities in the lake area. The ministry of environment and forest had declared Kabar lake as the 39th Ramsar site of the country last month. Ramsar sites are wetlands of international importance under Ramsar convention – an intergovernmental international treaty to preserve ecological character of selected wetlands. The state government had notified about 13,000 acres of land as Kabar bird sanctuary in 1989. It is the largest fresh water oxbow lake in Asia formed by the meandering of the Gandak which plays host to over fifty species of migratory birds from Central Asia and Siberia during winter. Though the lake area was originally spread over 13,000 acres of land, it has shrunk to about 3,000 acres now due to increasing population, unauthorised constructions and climatic changes. The remaining area of lake is being used for agriculture by the farmers living in the surrounding villages. However, with the lake now a Ramsar site and the government announcing to develop it as eco-tourism spot, an unrest is brewing among local farmers over fears of their livelihood. Ram Jiwan Singh, former Union agriculture minister and a local, said there has always been two streams of thought on the issue. “The first is to develop the entire notified area of the bird sanctuary to sustain the local eco bio-diversity and another is to contain the bird sanctuary area to about 2,000 acres of land and develop the site as ‘krishi-cum-pakshi vihar”, he said. “As per the 1901 survey of land, the total taal area is about 15,000 acres. However, with the water level receding in the Gandak over a period of time, farming activities in 16 villages have taken the hit. The state government notified the entire taal area as the bird sanctuary, but the land compensation issue is yet to be resolved,” he added. Amrendra Kumar Amar, an aide of Begusarai MP Giriraj Singh, said the interests of farmers should be taken care of while chalking out development plans. “The government should denotify the land suitable for agriculture under the bird sanctuary area. Eco-biodiversity and farmers’ interest must go hand in hand,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kabar-lakes-ramsar-site-tag-fails-to-enthuse-farmers/articleshow/79630498.cms||Rajiv Kumar
December 9, 2020||Patna||450 litres of IMFL seized from school building in Bihar||PATNA: Liquor smugglers have not even spared schools in the state for carrying out a flourishing trade. This is evident from the seizure of 450 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from the room of a private school building at Padui village under the Goroul police station area in Vaishali district. Acting on a tip off, a police team carried out a raid at the school and seized the consignment which was about to be delivered to a bootlegger operating in the area. However, those involved in the trade managed to escape from the spot. “The room has been sealed and raids are on to arrest the liquor smugglers,” Goroul police station SHO Anil Kumar said. An investigating officer told this newspaper that the school was shut due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Taking advantage of the situation, the liquor traders stocked the consignment in a room and delivered it to small traders. Vaishali district has emerged as a nerve centre of liquor smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/450-litres-of-imfl-seized-from-school-building/articleshow/79630468.cms||Ramashankar
December 9, 2020||Business||Cognizant to see around 23,000 campus hires||CHENNAI: Rajesh Nambiar took charge at the corner office at Cognizant India a month ago from software firm Ciena India. An old IBM executive, he talks of his mandate and the road ahead for Cognizant. Excerpts: How has it been since you took over as CMD?As a company, we’ve been repositioning ourselves into addressing some challenges thrown at the industry. With digital becoming the core of everything we do, opportunities are just phenomenal. Because of the pandemic, organisations are becoming a lot more digital a lot sooner than anticipated. Has the turbulence that normally follows a CEO change become outdated?I can’t comment much about the past, but when I look at the company today, I see only opportunities. The role I play here now directly reports to the CEO and is also a part of the executive committee (EC) that runs the company. In my role, the focus is on providing stewardship to strengthen operations, brand positioning, and standing as an employer of choice in India. I think that’s critical, be it engaging with academia, driving better synergies and collaboration between academia and Cognizant, or ensuring that people within the company feel proud of their work and their place of work. What do you think about the large campuses that tech companies have built, especially in the WFH era?For Cognizant, the most important thing has been ensuring the health and safety of our employees. Of course, as you said, people have gotten comfortable working from home because that has been going on for many months now. I don’t think anyone had ever expected this situation and I don’t think anyone has an absolute view of how things will be in the future. Like everyone else, we are closely following the curve of the pandemic and are focused on controlling everything possible. We have still to take a call on real estate. It would be a long process, assessing the impact of the new normal, social distancing norms within these buildings, progress with vaccination, the number of employees we must have in our facilities, and so on. At this point, we expect to continue with the current arrangement until at least April 1. What about bonus payouts?We are applying a globally consistent approach to rewarding performance, and implementing targeted merit increases and promotions. The process began on October 1. Despite a challenging external environment, we are accruing 2020 bonuses at higher levels than 2019. And campus recruitments?We have hired about 17,000 from campuses this year — a sizeable proportion of them in India which is one of the highest percentages of campus hires-to-total hires since 2016. We expect to hire around 23,000 from campuses in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/we-expect-to-hire-23000-around-23000-from-campuses-in-2021-cognizant-ceo/articleshow/79632370.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
December 9, 2020||Pune||Green activists say Vetal Tekdi’s rich biodiversity has no parallel||Pune: After a much-battled road ate into a portion of the Vetal Tekdi’s spur on Paud Road, environmentalists and amateur botanists have said the tekdi is among the very few green hotspots left in Pune. Tekdis are the ‘lungs of Pune’ and must be preserved at any cost because of the very specific flora and fauna, which cannot be “replanted”, they added.Anaesthesiologist and amateur botanist Satish Phadke’s book, “Flora of Vetal Tekdi-A field guide on the flowering plants observed in Vetal Tekdi and surrounding hills in Kothrud” documents this diversity. He calls Vetal Tekdi a mini Sahyadri because “it is a representative of many plants observed in the Sahyadri, though it lacks several of those due to the habitat, altitude, weather, human, cattle as well as industrial activities.”Phadke said the abandoned stone quarry on Vetal Tekdi is a haven for many species of birds and amphibians and species of plants which require such niche areas for growth. “Trees like Dalbergia melanoxylon, Caesalpinia coriaria and Tecoma and Cassia surattensis were planted in the British era. Some are uniquely endemic like Jatropha nana and Chlorophytum bharuchae,” he said.The tekdi has ‘Gliricidia sepium’, a species which may have been planted in the 1960s and 1970s by the forest department. It has helped prevent soil erosion, he added. The vegetation must not be tampered with, he said Swati Gole, chairman of Ecological Society, Pune said Vetal Tekdi’s flora and fauna are among the few that have been studied and documented over a long period of time. She said,“Construction activity like a road on the Vetal hill slope is likely to destroy the specific diversity. The slope is rocky with a very thin layer of soil which supports scattered growth of typical vegetation of salai, moi, medshingi, and herbs. Flora on this slope is special. A road here will divide habitats, leading to degradation of the ecosystem.”Amateur botanist Shrikant Ingalhalikar said the hill ranges on the west of Pune are the interface between the plains of the east and the Western Ghats. “These hills are the only wild areas in the city, so they are important. They are opens schools for nature education. Introduction to biodiversity elements is possible only if the hills are kept wild.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/green-activists-say-vetal-tekdis-rich-biodiversity-has-no-parallel/articleshow/79631363.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Net equity funds outflow hits record Rs 13k cr in Nov||Mumbai: A strong stock market in November prompted mutual fund (MF) investors to book profit in equity funds and move to shorter duration debt funds — a sign of risk-mitigating behaviour. As a result, investors took Rs 12,917 crore off equity funds on a net basis, the highest monthly figure ever, data from industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed. The investors’ risk-aversion moves took a toll on systematic investment plans (SIPs) too with November’s flow through this route dipping to Rs 7,302 crore — the lowest monthly inflow figure since April 2018. With debt fund inflows more than covering the outflows from equity route, the MF industry’s assets under management (AUM) touched an all-time high at Rs 30 lakh crore, latest Amfi data showed. During November, equity funds recorded a net outflow of Rs 12,917 crore with large-caps witnessing Rs 3,289-crore net redemption, followed by Rs 2,842 crore from multi-caps, Rs 1,323 crore from value & contra funds, and Rs 1,317 crore from mid-cap funds. In comparison, debt funds recorded a net inflow of nearly Rs 45,000 crore, with low-duration funds seeing a net purchase of Rs 27,108 crore and leading the table. This was followed by nearly Rs 13,100-crore net inflow into short-durations and almost Rs 11,100 crore into corporate bond funds. However, overnight and liquid funds witnessed strong outflows at Rs 15,548 crore and Rs 8,415 crore, respectively. The Rs 7,302-crore SIP figure for last month was lower than Rs 7,800 crore seen in October (see top of the page). The last time monthly SIP flows were this low was Rs 6,690 crore in April 2018, Amfi website data showed. According to Union MF CEO G Pradeepkumar, since the last three days of November were non-business days, a significant amount of SIP flows might not be reflected in the official numbers that have been released. The MF industry veteran feels that overall SIP numbers are robust and is a good indication of continued retail interest in mutual funds. The other positive SIP data was that during the month, total SIP folios grew by 3.4 lakh to 3.4 crore folios, Amfi CEO N S Venkatesh pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/net-equity-funds-outflow-hits-record-rs-13k-cr-in-nov/articleshow/79634106.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Gold ETFs see net outflow after 7 mths||TNN Chennai: After seven months of net inflows in a row, gold ETFs recorded net outflow of Rs 141 crore in November, due to profit-booking. After reporting the highest inflow of Rs 921 core in July, gold ETFs have seen a steady decline as the yellow metal’s price started falling in August. MF industry body Amfi’s CEO N S Venkatesh said, “The net outflow was seen due to two reasons. First, investors have taken profits in gold ETFs and decided to exit. And second, gold prices have also started to dip, which means there is a risk-on mode that is slowly coming into the system. So, people are waiting to see how the market will behave and re-enter.” Net assets under management (AUM) for gold ETF portfolio stood at Rs 13,240 crore in November 2020, which is lower by Rs 700 crore from October. The average net AUM has declined to Rs 13,788 crore, compared to Rs 13,860 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-etfs-see-net-outflow-after-7-mths/articleshow/79632212.cms||Mamtha Asokan
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar registers 684 more Covid cases||PATNA: Altogether 684 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,40,249. With three deaths — two in Gaya and one in Gopalganj — the state’s toll reached 1,300. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported five deaths, including those of a 67-year-old woman from Bank Colony, two 70-year-old men from Lakhisarai and Madhepura, a 78-year-old from Madhubani and a 59-year-old from Buxar. AIIMS-P’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 13 patients from areas like Punaichak, Kaviraman Path, Kurji Magadh Colony, Rukanpura and Rupaspur were admitted and nine discharged from the hospital on Tuesday. A 54-year-old man died at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital from where two people were discharged on Tuesday. However, no Covid patient was admitted to the hospital. According to the figures of the health department, 263 people tested positive for Covid in Patna, taking the tally to 43,850. Corona cases were also reported from districts like Katihar (29), Madhubani (25), Muzaffarpur (25), Lakshisarai (20), Katihar (20), Madhepura (18), Araria (17) and East Champaran (15). A tweet shared by health minister Mangal Pandey stated that 674 people had recovered from Covid in the past 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.31%. During the same period, 1,25,703 samples were tested in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-registers-684-more-corona-cases/articleshow/79630358.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Railways restores services of 7 pairs of special trains||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has restored the services of seven pairs of MEMU/DEMU special passenger trains on different routes falling under its jurisdiction. The decision was taken after various local bodies and the Bihar Daily Passengers Association requested the railways to help daily commuters. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the railways has restored the Patna-Jhajha (03213/03214), Patna-Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction (03229/03230), Katihar-Sonepur (03367/03368) and Raxaul-Patliputra Junction MEMU trains (03215/03216). “Besides, the Patna-Darbhanga MEMU (03357/03358) has also been restored. This special train leaves Patna at 6.40am and reaches Darbhanga at 12.44pm the same day,” the CPRO said, adding that the Patna-Saharsa MEMU (03359/03360) leaves Patna Junction at 6am and reaches Saharsa at 1.16pm and the Saharsa-Jamalpur MEMU (05509/05510) leaves Saharsa at 7.35am and reaches Jamalpur at 10.22am. Meanwhile, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the railways had deployed adequate number of safety staff to provide foolproof security to the passengers. “We are strictly following Covid-19 health protocols at all stations,” he added. Timings revised: The railways has revised the timings of the Danapur-Secunderabad special (02791/02792), Chhapra-Surat special (09045/09046) and Chhapra-Lokmanya Tilak special (01060). “The Sealdah-Balia special (03105/03106) will run via Hajipur from December 12 till further orders,” Kumar said and added that the railways had allowed the Patliputra Junction-Lucknow special (03105/03106) to halt at Ekma from December 12 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/railways-restores-services-of-7-pairs-of-special-trains/articleshow/79630384.cms||Kumod Verma
December 9, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ex-sarpanch’s killing triggers protests||BUXAR/PATNA: The former sarpanch of Chilhari panchayat, Jagdish Yadav (60), was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals at Pratap Sagar village under the New Bhojpur police station area in Buxar district on Tuesday, triggering protests by his supporters. The incident took place at 9am when Jagdish was reading a newspaper outside his residence. Three criminals reached the spot on a motorbike and pumped three bullets into his body, killing him instantly. After hearing the gunshots, Jagdish’s family members came out of the house, but the assailants had already fled. He was rushed to the Buxar sadar hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. As the news of the murder spread like wildfire, a number of supporters of the slain sarpanch blocked the Ara-Buxar road near Chilhari and paralysed traffic movement. They claimed that Jagdish had fallen victim to political rivalry ahead of the panchayat polls scheduled to be held in April-May next year. The blockade was lifted after the intervention of Dumraon SDO Harendra Ram and DSP K K Singh, who promised to bring the assailants to book at the earliest. The DSP told this reporter, “Old enmity is suspected to be the reason behind the incident. Raids are on to arrest the people involved in the crime.” He, however, refused to divulge more information as “it may affect the investigation”. Jagdish’s body was handed over to the family after postmortem. Earlier, Digvijay Singh (35), the son of a former mukhiya of Karhansi panchayat, Dharam Singh alias Munna Singh, was killed by four armed criminals when he was working on his farmland under the Mufassil police station area on December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-sarpanchs-killing-triggers-protests/articleshow/79630441.cms||K Kamlesh
December 9, 2020||Patna||Retest likely for foreign nationals missing PG exams||GAYA: As many as 173 foreigners enrolled in different postgraduate courses of Magadh University (MU) will miss their final examinations beginning from December 15. Of these, 92 belong to semester-III and 81 to semester-I. A large number of foreign nationals, who hail from Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam and Nepal, had opted for Buddhist studies, ancient history, Pali and philosophy in MU. Many of them vacated their hostel rooms and returned to their respective countries during the Covid-19 lockdown, but are unable to reach Bodh Gaya and write their exams in the absence of international flights. Buddhist studies professor Sushil Kumar Singh told this newspaper on Tuesday, “MU is likely to conduct special examinations for the students belonging to Buddhist countries after the situation becomes normal.” According to an official order issued by MU examination controller Bhrigu Nath, students of both the semesters will answer multiple-choice questions. Stress on virtual classes: Vice-chancellor Rajendra Prasad has directed the PG departments to start online classes from December 10. “Conducting online classes will help us organize examinations on time and ensure that the academic session is not delayed,” MU nodal officer Sanjay Kumar said, adding that colleges where Degree Part-III exams were going on would start virtual classes after December 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/retest-likely-for-foreign-nationals-missing-pg-exams/articleshow/79630523.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Patna||IPS officer ‘punished’ for dereliction of duty in Bihar||PATNA: The state government on Tuesday initiated punitive action against a DG rank IPS officer, Arvind Pandey, in connection with a 23-year-old case in undivided Bihar. The case relates to the killing of the then BDO of Manatu block in Palamu district, Bhavnath Jha, by suspected Maoists in 1997. According to a notification issued by the state home department, the benefits of a hike in Pandey’s salary have been restricted with immediate effect for dereliction of duty. In addition, two increments in his salary have also been deducted. The action against the IPS officer was initiated after getting approval from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The departmental proceedings were initiated against Pandey for dereliction of duty during his tenure as SP of Palamu way back in 1997. Jha was killed during a Maoist attack at his residence following removal of some home guard jawans deputed as house guards on the then SP’s order. The case has been pending since then. Pandey’s name had figured on the list of the IPS officers sent earlier to the UPSC for the post of state police chief. Pandey, a native of Uttar Pradesh, had earned popularity during his stint as DIG of Tirhut range for installing ‘Jahangiri ghanta’ at his official residence in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ips-officer-punished-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/79631721.cms||Ramashankar
December 9, 2020||Business||India’s EV market to be worth $206 bn by 2030: Study||Chennai: India’s electric vehicle market could be worth nearly $206 billion (Rs 14,42,000 crore) in the coming decade, if India were to achieve its 2030 electric vehicle (EV) ambitions, according to an independent study released today by the CEEWCentre for Energy Finance (CEEW-CEF). The study also estimates a cumulative investment need of over $180 billion (Rs 12,50,000 crore) in vehicle production and charging infrastructure until 2030 to meet India’s EV ambition.According to the CEEW-CEF study, the cumulative EV sales in all vehicle segments could cross over 100 million units by FY30 which is 200 times its current market size. At the end of March 2020, the total number of registered electric vehicles in India stood at only half a million. Said Vaibhav Pratap Singh, senior analyst at CEEW-CEF, and lead author of the study, “Availability and affordability of capital for OEMs, battery manufacturers, charge point operators, and end consumers would be key.” The CEEW-CEF study also estimates that realising India’s EV ambition would require an estimated annual battery capacity of 158 GWh by FY30. This presents a massive market opportunity for domestic manufacturers. Even if 50% of the battery manufacturing capacity were indigenous, investments would amount to as much as $6.1 billion (Rs 42,900 crore) by FY30 says the study. Further, the cumulative investments required would exceed $12.3 billion (Rs 85,900 crore) in case of 100% indigenisation of battery manufacturing. According to the study, India would also need a network of over 2.9 million public charging points by FY30, beyond the in-home charging points. This could create another massive market opportunity requiring cumulative investments of up to $2.9 billion (Rs 20,600 crore) until 2030. Currently, there are just 1800 public charging points across the country. The EV market also presents a huge opportunity for India’s automobile loan market. According to the study, if 50% of the EV upfront costs – $103 billion (Rs 7,21,000 crore) — required through FY21 —FY30 were to be financed through debt, the banking sector would have to more than triple its current advances of $31 billion (Rs 2,17,000 crore) towards vehicle loans in the next 10 years. India’s 2030 EV ambition, signalled by NITI Aayog, states that 70% of all commercial cars, 30% of private cars, 40% buses, and 80% two and three-wheeler sales in 2030 would be electric.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-ev-market-to-be-worth-206-bn-by-2030-study/articleshow/79628782.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Patna||Stir forces Patliputra University, Magadh University to postpone exams||PATNA: The Bharat bandh called by farmer unions forced the Patliputra University (PPU) to postpone its Degree (vocational) Part I and II examinations on Tuesday, controller of examinations Pravin Kumar said. Sources said the university has now decided to hold these examinations in two sittings from 10am to 1pm and 2pm to 5pm at its 24 constituent colleges from December 14 to 19. The Degree subsidiary part I honours papers examinations would now be held from December 21 to January 9. Meanwhile, Magadh University (MU) has also postponed its BA part III honours examinations, which was to be held on Tuesday and Wednesday, to December 12. The university will hold Degree part III science practical examinations from December 12 to 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stir-forces-ppu-mu-to-postpone-exams/articleshow/79630290.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Stay away from distractions, live in present: IG Delhi to IIM students||Rudrapur: Amit Lodha, the inspector general at Delhi Police headquarters, addressed the students of IIM Kashipur in a webinar session on Tuesday. During his address, Lodha asked the students to focus on the importance of keeping oneself away from distractions and highlighted the need for self-discipline. He also underscored that students should be open to people and situations without any prejudice or baggage of the past. Lodha asked students to manage their time efficiently by prioritising and delegating the work for the betterment of the student community. He also advised the students to follow their passion, live in the present, and strive to be the best version of themselves. The official also shared his experience of working for “Bharat Ke Veer” — a fund-raising initiative by the Union ministry of home affairs on behalf of the members of the Indian paramilitary forces. A sum of Rs 350 crore has already been collected under this initiative, said Lodha. Notably, the webinar was conducted for MBA students of the institute as part of an initiative — ‘management from a non-corporate lens’ — that is designed to impart knowledge to the students from the pioneers of the different fields who have gone out of their way for the development of society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stay-away-from-distractions-live-in-present-ig-delhi-to-iim-students/articleshow/79630357.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 9, 2020||Pune||Standing committee’s nod to e-bike renting project||Pune: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved e-bike renting project, under which 3,000 to 5,000 electric bikes would be made available by a private agency on rental basis in the city. “The PMC will not bear any cost for the project. It will be executed for six months on a trial basis after getting necessary permissions,” Hemant Rasne, chairman of the standing committee, PMC, said. Rasne said the project aimed at arresting pollution. Around 500 locations are being identified for parking and charging of the e-bikes. VTRO Motors Private Limited will bear all the costs incurred for the project on revenue sharing basis with the PMC. He said the agency would implement the project while PMC would monitor the operations. “The project had faced some challenges during its execution in the initial stage, but it was executed well. We will tell the administration and the implementing agency to plug the loopholes to minimise hurdles,” Rasne said. Amol Balwadkar, chairman of PMC’s city improvement committee, said the rental charges had been fixed in the form of per km ride on monthly basis. The average charge per km would be Rs 4, while for one hour for 25km, it would be Rs 100. The charging points would be set up without disturbing the bicycle tracks and footpaths, Balwadkar said. Co-founders of VTRO Heramb Shelke and Pranit Parekar said VTRO Motors had taken into consideration the full damage control and robbery issues of the previously run cycle project by developing IOT-enabled, futuristic, mobile and GPS controlled bikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/standing-committees-nod-to-e-bike-renting-project/articleshow/79631391.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Margao Municipal Council considers installing elevator in heritage building||MARGAO: The Margao Municipal Council (MMC) is considering installation of an elevator to the heritage municipal building to facilitate easy and barrier-free access to persons with disabilities. For the same, MMC chief officer Agnelo Fernandes has written to the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) to provide clarity over whether the building has been notified as a heritage structure and whether it is located in the designated conservation zone. The lift to the two-storey building is intended to enable persons with disabilities barrier-free access to the first floor which houses the offices of the chief officer and the chairperson, besides the accounts, taxation, sanitary and births and deaths registration sections. Sources said that the MMC has also invited quotations from reputed agencies for installation of the elevator. The Disability Rights Association of Goa (DRAG) had earlier written to the MMC pointing out that as the building was not accessible to persons with disabilities as mandated under section 46 of the Persons with Disabilities Act 1995, provision of a lift in the building was necessary. The Act mandates that all public buildings should be made accessible for persons with disabilities within 5 years of the Act being notified, which was done in 2017. President of DRAG, Avelino De Sa had, in the letter to the MMC, also pointed out that the heritage buildings aren’t exempted from the Act as India is a signatory to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mmc-considers-installing-elevator-in-heritage-building/articleshow/79632989.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mines dept to take stern action against sand mining violators||PANAJI: The directorate of mines and geology (DMG) has decided to increase vigilance and take stringent action against those involved in illegal sand extraction in some parts of the state. “The mines department has conducted a raid at Curtorim and seized six canoes and two pumps. Through this raid, we want to send the message that we are going for strict action,” a senior officer said, adding that DMG will give directions to the Captain of Ports (CoP) to destroy canoes attached during the raid so that they are unable to repeat the illegal act. “We will not give any natural justice to anyone who is involved in the illegal act and tampering with nature.” The senior official also said that the department wants people to think twice before getting involved in illegal sand extraction and that sand recovered during raids will be put back in the river bed. He also said that culprits involved in illegal sand extraction manage to run away when they see department staff approaching by boats, but that their team still goes ahead and seize boats while recovering sand which is illegal extracted. TOI has regularly reported and published photographs of illegal sand extraction in rivers across Goa. A recent report highlighted the Khandepar river which is the main source of raw water for the Opa water treatment plant supplying potable water to Tiswadi and Ponda talukas, as being under threat due to rampant and illegal sand mining in Collem, which is part of the eco-sensitive area of the Western Ghats. As per the National Green Tribunal (NGT) direction, legal sand extraction can take place at the Chapora river and the north Goa collector will soon apply for environmental clearance to start legal sand extraction. The NGT had ordered sand extraction banned in the state. The state government was pulled up by NGT for alleged cases of illegal sand mining. The government’s plea to exempt Goa from the ban on sand extraction since it has effective regulatory mechanism in place, was rejected by NGT. Earlier, the government had identified 30 sites for sand extraction in a bid to ensure scientific quarrying of the mineral for construction purposes. The state had asked the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) to conduct a detailed study so that sand extraction can be permitted. In January 2020, the high court of Bombay at Goa asked the state government to indicate steps taken to implement its judgement to stop illegal sand mining in Goa. The Goa river sand protection network (GRSPN) filed a contempt petition in the high court and placed on record several photographs, “which suggest that sand mining is continuing and there is at least prima facie some deficit in the manner of action on the part of the authorities”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mines-dept-to-take-stern-action-against-sand-mining-violators/articleshow/79632964.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: CPM digs up UDF affidavit against JEIH||KOZHIKODE: An affidavit filed in the high court in 2014 against Jamaat-e-Islami-Hind (JEIH), by the then UDF government, has become a point of contention in the last leg of campaigning for elections to local bodies in the state. LDF has been milking the issue to put UDF and JEIH, which are in a pre-poll arrangement, on the defensive. The affidavit was filed on the direction of the court after a person approached it demanding an impartial investigation into the functioning and financial sources of JEIH. Abdul Samad also sought seizure of literature published by the organization. The affidavit, filed by the home department, read, “On verification of the constitution of the JEIH in Malayalam published in 1957 it is seen that JEIH wants its followers to relinquish any key posts which he/she holds under an ungodly government system or the membership of its legislature or a judicial officer under its judicial system.” According to the affidavit, “Article 9 of their (JEIH) constitution states that in case of being any part of an ungodly government system or being instrumental in giving effect to its laws the person should be ready to part with that sustenance.” It added that the content in the constitution was disregarding and contemptuous of the democratic system in the country. It said JEIH strictly asks its followers to reject any employment under constitutional institutions in India. Jamaat had come out strongly against the UDF government for filing the affidavit. In a public function, then Kerala amir of the organization, T Arifali, said the affidavit ‘problematizes’ the belief of Muslims in the country. “If the Kerala government feels that Hinduism is the official religion of the country and all other faiths have no place in India, then it is a more dangerous position than that of the Hindu Rashtra argument of Narendra Modi,” Arifali had said. Asking the government to withdraw the affidavit, Arfiali posed a question to then chief minister Oommen Chandy and home minister Ramesh Chennithala whether a person who beliefs in Islam has any place in the state. Speaking to TOI on Tuesday, JEIH secretary Sheikh Muhammad Karakkunnu said the issue was being raked up with an eye on the elections. “The high court had appointed a two-member panel to study our publications. I think the committee submitted its report three years ago,” he said. Sheikh Muhammad said Jamaat had also produced before the HC the Supreme Court order withdrawing the ban imposed on the organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-digs-up-udf-affidavit-against-jeih/articleshow/79631470.cms||Prashanth M P
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||65 organizations in Wardha dist join hands to demand repeal of farm laws||Wardha: The Bharat bandh evoked mixed response in the district on Tuesday. Buses and autorickshaws continued to ply as usual in the city and rural parts. The bandh was, however, total in Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC).The protesters had blocked Nagpur-Tuljapur highway near Selu for half an hour.All shops and other commercial establishments remained closed in the city as well as in rural areas in support of the bandh called by farmers agitating near Delhi border demanding repeal of the controversial farm laws passed by the central government.In city, 65 organizations, including farmers’ outfits, participated in the agitation. A joint rally was taken out from Shivaji Square in which hundreds of farmers, activists from social, educational and other organizations participated. A memorandum demanding repeal of the farm laws, addressed to Prime Minister, was handed over to the collector .Yuva Parivartan Ki Awaaz set copes of the agriculture bill in front of the office of BJP MP Ramdas Tadas. Police had detained seven activists, including the organization’s president Nihal Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/65-organizations-in-wardha-dist-join-hands-to-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws/articleshow/79631411.cms||Balwant Dhage
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Online workshop held on boosting forest dept resources||Dehradun: A two-day online workshop will be organized to hold discussions on various state and central governments’ schemes to boost available resources of the forest department. Commencing on Wednesday, it will be chaired by the head of forest force, Ranjana Kala. “The meeting will entail discussions ranging from budget allocation to each forest division to discussing the plans of all forest divisions for upcoming winter months,” said a senior department officer. The discussions will also include human-animal conflict, Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority projects’ execution and forest land clearance for various developmental projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/online-workshop-held-on-boosting-forest-dept-resources/articleshow/79630355.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goans supporting farm bills: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that there was no impact on Goa of nationwide bandh called by farmers to protest against three agricultural bills passed by the union government. Sawant  also said that Goans and farmers are in support of the agricultural bills. “Today we have proved that we are supporting the bills,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goans-supporting-farm-bills-sawant/articleshow/79633003.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Aurangabad||First woman booked under MPDA in Marathwada region||AURANGABAD: The Jalna police have booked a woman under sections of the MPDA (Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act), which is being deemed as the first such case in the Marathwada region. Under MPDA, once approved by the state home department-based high power committee, the suspect cannot obtain bail for at least a year. Inspector Prashant Mahajan of Kadim Jalna police station said, “The woman has about a dozen cases of bootlegging registered against her and after initiating action under MPDA, hearing was given to her by the authorities, following which she has been arrested and sent to Aurangabad central prison.” Mahajan said, “The woman, Chandrakala Jadhav, a resident of Saraswati Colony, has a track record of preparing spurious liquor and selling it in parts of Kaikadi Mohalla, Sanjay nagar, Nutana Vasahat.” Jalna superintendent of police Vinayak Deshmukh said that the process of digging out records of all the habitual criminal has been initiated and soon other criminals, especially those involved in body, property and illicit liquor businesses would face action under MPDA. “The cases under prohibition act are bailable offences. Each time after bagging bail, the woman would return to same activities,” said an officer privy to the preparation and submission of her MPDA proposal. The police said that after each arrest the woman would change location and resume illegal operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/first-woman-booked-under-mpda-in-mwada-region/articleshow/79633843.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 9, 2020||Bareilly||Three-year-old raped by cousin in Budaun||Bareilly: A three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her first cousin in a village under Wazirganj in Budaun district on Monday evening, taking the number of such crimes in western Uttar Pradesh districts to seven in a fortnight. The girl had gone missing early Monday and was found abandoned at a desolated place late in the night, said police. After the family found out that the girl was sexually assaulted by her 21-year-old cousin, they lodged a complaint with police and shifted the girl to a hospital. Upon receiving information, district magistrate Kumar Prashant and senior superintendent of police Sankalp Sharma rushed to the village and met the girl’s family. They also visited the girl at the hospital and took stock of her condition while giving necessary instructions to the hospital staff. The girl’s medico-legal examination was conducted on Tuesday. Police have, meanwhile, booked the accused under IPC section 376 (rape) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act. Police said the accused was arrested from a field where he was hiding in an inebriated condition. He was sent to jail by a remand magistrate on Tuesday. The DM said, “The victim’s family will be provided with all necessary assistance. We will monitor the case and ensure speedy trial by a special Pocso court. The girl is stable and she will soon be discharged from the hospital.” Seven such cases were reported from western UP districts in the past 14 days. In most of the cases, the accused were minor and close to the family. A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 15-year-old relative in Rampur district on December 4, while a two-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her 14-year-old neighbour in Agra on December 1. A 13-year-old mentally ill girl was allegedly raped by a 30-year-old man in Pilibhit district on November 30, while an eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed in Mathura district on November 27. On November 26, a five-year-old girl was allegedly raped by an e-rickshaw driver, while a 10-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a history-sheeter out on bail in Bareilly district on November 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-year-old-raped-by-cousin-in-budaun/articleshow/79630370.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 9, 2020||Goa||53 Baina residents told to prove ramponnkar status||Panaji: Based on an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), 53 persons residing on Baina beach have been asked to prove their status as ramponnkars and present documents of the land on which they reside, by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). Those residing on Baina beach had approached NGT after demolition orders to raze their houses were issued by GCZMA. On a report submitted by the Mormugao deputy collector, GCZMA had issued demolition orders in December 2015 to 121 illegal structures on Baina beach. Following this, the violators filed different petitions before NGT against GCZMA’s demolition orders. According in its order last year, NGT in two of the matters stated, “We are of the considered opinion that the issue with regard to fishing village should have been considered by GCZMA. Therefore, we deem it just and proper and in the interest of justice that this matter be remanded to GCZMA so as to consider the issue with regard to fishing village and pass appropriate orders, in accordance with law.” Subsequently, GCZMA took up the matter for hearing from 53 of the persons to whom notices for demolition were issued. Due to the pandemic, the violators were given additional time and hearings were held in October and November this year. GCZMA at its meeting in November decided that the violators will be given time to make written submissions. “Respondents shall clearly indicate their status as ramponnkars and the land status on which the structures currently stand. Further authority decided to grant additional time under principle of natural justice,” the GCZMA said. The matter will now be heard next on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/53-baina-residents-told-to-prove-ramponnkar-status/articleshow/79633005.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||8 public toilets in Margao to be disabled-friendly||Margao: Improvising on its project of upgradation and maintenance of 15 public toilet blocks located across the city, the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) has decided to provide one toilet each with facilities for people with disabilities at eight of these toilet blocks. Chief officer (CO) of the MMC Agnelo Fernandes said that the initiative has been taken up with Sulabh International who are currently maintaining 15 existing toilet blocks. Four toilets at Moti Dongor, two at Chinchal, one at Pedda, and one at Colcondo, will be made dsabled-friendly. “According to provisions contained in the Persons with Disabilities Act, we have to cater to the needs of persons with disabilities, hence the initiative,” Fernandes said. A week ago MMC had signed a maintenance contract with Sulabh International to ensure the upkeep and maintenance of 15 toilets across the town, several of which are in a rundown and unusable condition. The maintenance contract is for a period of five years. The monthly maintenance cost of each sulabh toilet is Rs 6,500 and municipal funds will be utilised for the purpose. Goacan, a consumer network organization had on several occasions in the past brought to the notice of the authorities the condition and inadequate facilities in most of the public toilets in the city. Goacan had also demanded increasing the number of toilets in Margao considering the number of people visiting various offices, commercial establishments, and the Kadamba bus stand. Lorna Fernandes of Goacan recently pointed out the absence of location signboards indicating the way to the public toilets. She also demanded for facilities for easy access to senior citizens and women to these public toilets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/8-public-toilets-in-margao-to-be-disabled-friendly/articleshow/79633001.cms||---
December 9, 2020||India||Regulatory rules have clauses for emergency-use approval: Govt||NEW DELHI: India’s regulatory framework has a specific provision for grant of emergency use authorisation, the health ministry said on Tuesday, responding to concerns that the drug law may lack clauses to support temporary licensing of Covid-19 vaccines in the country. “Not all countries’ regulatory frameworks mention the phrase emergency use authorisation. That does not mean the specific country does not have an enabling provision to accord such an approval which is early and which is distinct from a regular market approval,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. “India’s regulatory framework has a specific provision for grant of emergency use authorisation although this phrase is not used,” he added. The New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, clearly specify that under special situations, relaxation, abbreviation, omission or deferment of data, including local clinical trial data, may be considered for approval, Bhushan said. “This is our law. Similarly, other countries also have their legislations,” he added. The government said while the national drug regulator was considering three applications for emergency use and any decision would be based on scientific assessment of safety, efficacy and immunogenicity of the vaccines, it was hopeful that one or more vaccines would get the green signal soon. Urging citizens to keep faith in the country’s institutions, the government said the regulator would undertake a deep and rigorous scrutiny of data. “Three vaccines are under consideration by the regulator and that is a very satisfying fact. We are looking at the world’s largest immunisation programme. Doubts should not be created about our regulator, our scientific institutions or the national technical advisory group on immunisation (NTAGI),” Dr V K Paul, member (health) in Niti Aayog and head of the national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/regulatory-rules-have-clauses-for-emergency-use-approval-govt/articleshow/79634522.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||IMA: Deputy Commandant parade held||Dehradun: The Deputy Commandant and Chief Instructor’s (DC&CI) parade was conducted at the historic Chetwode drill square of the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Tuesday. A total of 325 Indian and 70 Foreign Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) participated in the parade. The event was a precursor to the finale – the Passing out Parade (POP) to beheld on December 12, which will be reviewed by Let Gen SK Saini, Vice Chief of Army Staff. Tuesday’s Parade was reviewed by Maj Gen JS Mangat, Deputy Commandant & Chief Instructor of the IMA. After reviewing the parade, Maj Gen Managat said that the efforts of the faculty and the hard work of the GCs was quite evident from the crisp and coordinated movements on the Drill Square. He also emphasised the importance of valour, honour, ethos as fine traditions of the Army. “The soldiers serving under you should look up to you with pride. Indian troops are the best in the world. They are simple by heart, with unquestionable loyalty and hearts filled with patriotism. But then, as an officer, you have to earn respect and trust by your action, conduct, demeanor and above all by the truthfulness and purity of your intention and action. Once you have earned their trust and loyalty, they will follow you to every battle and win it for you,” Maj Gen Mangat said. He also complimented GCs from friendly foreign countries on successful completion of the training and wished them all the success ahead, as they carry the cherished memories of their time at IMA home A communique from the IMA said that parents’ presence at the parade this time brought cheer to both the GCs and the families. Parents were allowed to visit while adhering to Covid-19 protocols. Due to extraordinary circumstances this year, IMA authorities have already completed the piping ceremony of three cadets from Vietnam and Tajikistan before the Passing Out Parade (POP) on special request of the embassies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ima-deputy-commandant-parade-held/articleshow/79630377.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Oppn parties, activists observe bandh in Chanda dist||Chandrapur: The Bharat bandh called to protest Centre’s anti-farmer laws evoked good response on Tuesday as all commercial establishments remained closed during the day. Farmers as well as opposition parties staged demonstrations at all tehsils and towns in the district. Members of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi constituents — Congress, Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party — apart from other social organizations participated in the agitation. Senior Congress leader and ex-MP Naresh Puglia and other activists under the banner of Vidarbha Kisan Mazdoor Congress staged a dharna at the local Gandhi Square. Shiv Sena workers led by Sandeep Girhe took out a rally to oppose the central government’s anti-farmer laws and extended support to the agitating farmers protesting on the borders of the national capital for the last several days. Jan Vikas Sena activists headed by Pradeep alias Pappu Deshmukh also took out a march demanding repeal of the newly enacted laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/oppn-parties-activists-observe-bandh-in-chanda-dist/articleshow/79631533.cms||Mazhar Ali
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goa govt’s ‘har ghar jal’ lie exposed, says Kamat||Panaji: After some residents of Mapusa and surrounding areas have reported having gone without tapped water supply for upto 30 days, the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ lie of the Goa BJP government stands exposed, leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said on Tuesday. “The tall claims made by Union Jal Shakti ministry that Goa is the first state in the country to provide 100% tap water connections (in rural areas) has once again turned out to be a ‘jumala’ with people in Mapusa and surrounding areas facing acute water shortage with taps going completely dry for more than 30 days,” Kamat said. This situation of water shortage has also shown the importance of protecting Goa’s lifeline, River Mhadei, he said. All Goans must stand united to oppose any attempts to divert even a drop of water from Mhadei, he stated. “I understand that residents of Mapusa, Siolim and other areas in North Goa are facing acute water shortage for last so many months with either taps going dry or supply of dirty and contaminated water in taps. The government has totally failed to resolve the water shortage,” Kamat said. Union Jal Shakti minister should visit Goa and understand the ground reality here, he said. “I want to remind that chief minister Pramod Sawant’s BJP government had declared Goa as ‘Open Defecation Free’ when people still use their backyards or go in open places due to non-availability of toilets. Why government is still ordering toilets if Goa is already an ODF state,” said Kamat. People of Goa are closely watching the ‘anti-people and insensitive policies of the BJP Government’ and will teach them a lesson soon, Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-govts-har-ghar-jal-lie-exposed-says-kamat/articleshow/79633009.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kozhikode||IUML is deciding things in UDF: A Vijayaraghavan||KOZHIKODE: At a meet-the-leader programme organized by Calicut Press Club on Tuesday, CPM’s acting state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said that an important question – that has arisen now – is, who is deciding things in the UDF. “KPCC president is not in a position to get a candidate of his choice. IUML is deciding things in the Front and Congress has offered a complete surrender,” he alleged. Vijayaraghavan said that aligning with forces such as Jamaat-e-Islami, IUML is pushing the Muslim community into a more fundamental side. “Kozhikode is a place where there is a proud tradition of national movement. But, there is not even a single MLA for the Congress in the district,” he said. It was IUML that initiated discussions for a tie-up with the Welfare Party and Congress was forced to toe the line. Congress did not even follow the directive of the central leadership of the party. It was IUML leaders who said that CPM, and not the BJP, is the main enemy of UDF, said Vijayaraghavan, adding that CPM considers BJP as the greatest threat for the country that needs to be defeated. He said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is the main campaigner for the LDF and every leader of the Front, who is visiting voters, are his representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/iuml-is-deciding-things-in-udf-vijayaraghavan/articleshow/79631536.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||‘Discourse over Mollem issue should continue’||Panaji: Owing to the climate crisis, there is a huge urgency to the Mollem issue and conversation about it must not be allowed to die down, said panellists speaking at a Zoom talk on Monday. Yash Marwah, who was part of the Let India Breathe Campaign, said it is imperative that we read about the issue and get our facts right. He said that even five people are enough to keep the conversation alive. He suggested that people speak in the family, work place and within their friend circle. He also suggested that we also have “dialogue with those who don’t agree with us”. Fr Gerard Rodricks said the Mollem issue is “not going to end today or tomorrow” and that citizens must brace themselves for this fight since it will go on for a long time. “We should therefore not stop conversations about this issue. Even if we can speak about it at home, over dinner, we must do so,” he said. Speakers pointed out that Goa has been fighting enormous battles against mining, the regional plan and now against coal. In all this, farmers and fishermen are the driving force behind the save Mollem campaign, said Raphael Carvalho. “Goa’s amazing khazan lands, villages and rivers are going to be converted into coal hubs.There is absolutely no need for a transmission line for Goans. These projects are anti-humanity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/discourse-over-mollem-issue-should-continue/articleshow/79633011.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Protests in all 16 tehsils of Yavatmal dist, bandh peaceful||Yavatmal: The one-day Bharat bandh, called by farmers agitating near the national capital demanding repeal of the newly enacted farm laws, received overwhelming response in the district. A large number of farmers from all 16 tehsils participated in the bandh. Shops and business establishments remained closed throughout the day. The bandh was supported by all three major constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Leaders staged dharna at various locations to condemn the BJP-led central government. Several farmers bodies including Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, Swamini Janandolan and many others staged protests against what they called insensitive central government. Several women, led by farm widows from Bothbodan, the village in Yavatmal tehsil infamous for reporting highest number of farm suicides, also participated in the bandh to demand repeal of the controversial farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protests-in-all-16-tehsils-of-yavatmal-dist-bandh-peaceful/articleshow/79631526.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Ajanta, Ellora, Bibi-ka-Maqbara & Panchakki to reopen tomorrow||AURANGABAD: The world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora caves in Aurangabad and two other monuments are set to reopen for tourists from Thursday. This development comes as a major relief to the thousands of families that, directly or indirectly, depend on the tourism sector here. The district administration had shut down all the important tourism destinations, including the famous Ajanta and Ellora caves, on March 19 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The continued closure of the tourist spots had greatly impacted the financial condition of the local tourism industry. Aurangabad, apart from being the only place in India to have two world heritage sites is also the tourism capital of the state. Each year, tens of thousands of domestic and foreign tourists visit Aurangabad. State minister Abdul Sattar, along with those representing the hospitality and other related industries, had been demanding the reopening of tourist spots. District collector Sunil Chavan told TOI: “In accordance with the chief minister’s initiative of Mission Begin Again, we have granted conditional consent for the reopening of Ajanta and Ellora caves, Bibi-ka-Maqbara and Panchakki.” Chavan said given that other tourist destinations across the country are being reopened, it was discriminatory to keep the ones in Aurangabad shut. On Wednesday, these heritage sites would be opened for a clean-up, before they are ready to welcome tourists from Thursday. The administration has set a daily upper limit of 2,000 tourists at the monuments. While 1,000 visitors would be allowed in the first half of the day, an equal number would be let in in the second half of the day. Visitors will have to book tickets online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/ajanta-ellora-bibi-ka-maqbara-panchakki-to-reopen-tomorrow/articleshow/79633848.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 9, 2020||Goa||Bombay HC refuses to stay zilla panchayat elections||PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday refused to stay the zilla panchayat (ZP) elections scheduled on December 12, advocate general Devidas Pangam told TOI. Petitioners, Sudip Tamankar and Kewal Mayekar, had approached the high court seeking to restrain the state government and Goa State Election Commission from holding the polls. They also sought a direction to the state government and Goa State Election Commission to renotify/make a fresh notification under Article 243K of the Constitution and Section 237 of the Goa Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, read with Rule 10(2)(i) of the Goa Panchayat and Zilla Panchayat (Election Procedure) Rules, 1996, with regards to notifying the ZP elections. The petitioners prayed before the court to examine the validity of the election process and “to quash and set it aside to the extent that it keeps valid the entire election process up to the stage of campaigning”. “Pending hearing and till the final disposal of the matter the court be pleased to stay holding of polling for elections to the zilla panchayat in the state of Goa,” Tamankar stated in the petition. Voting for the ZP election will be held on December 12, while counting will be held on December 14. The election, earlier scheduled in March, was postponed due to the pandemic. The election will be held for 48 out of 50 seats. People without face masks will not be allowed to vote. Covid positive persons would be allowed to vote in the last hour of voting. Speaking to reporters, state election commissioner Chokha Ram Garg had said that the model code of conduct has come into force with the announcement of the election date and will be in force till midnight of December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-refuses-to-stay-zp-elections/articleshow/79633030.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Bandh: Mixed response to police travel advisory||Ludhiana: The latest travel advisory issued by the Ludhiana commissionerate on its official Facebook page has got a lot of reactions, including positive and negative. Some city residents also exchanged communal comments on the post. On Monday night, the city police updated a post, saying that ‘in the wake of the proposed call for bandh given by various organisations on December 8, 2020, it is advisable to avoid going out on the road between 11am to 4pm, unless in case of medical emergency. The post received 98 comments till Tuesday evening. A city resident, Lovish Dhingra, wrote a comment, saying that, “It is very shameful for our police and the government that instead of stopping this Bharat Bandh, we are being advised to stay at home.” This comment of Dhingra initiated a conversation on the post. Another city resident Inderjit Grewal replied to him by saying that ‘you will be beaten up if you dared to come out of the house’. Later on, many people joined them. Some supported the city police for giving a travel advisory to avoid any harassment, while some opposed it by saying that the police should remain neutral and not support any kind of bandh. Thereafter, some people also started bringing communal angles into the conversation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bandh-mixed-response-to-police-travel-advisory/articleshow/79631551.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bareilly||55-year-old farmer killed in hit-and-run case||Pilibhit: A 55-year-old farmer, Lakkha Singh of Dheram Mandaria village under Gajraula police station, was fatally injured when he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Richhaula crossing on Pilibhit- Madhotanda road on Monday evening. He was on way home on foot from Richhaula gurudwara when he met with the accident. He died at 8.50 p.m. while being shifted to a higher medical centre in Bareilly. Police have lodged an FIR. Bhagwant Singh, the deceased’s son, said his father was first shifted to Pilibhit district hospital, where he was referred to Bareilly in view of his critical condition. Jai Prakash Singh, SHO, said a case has been registered against the unidentified driver under IPC section 304 A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (driving any vehicle on a public way in a manner so rash or negligent as to endanger human life).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/55-year-old-farmer-killed-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/79630413.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 9, 2020||Kochi||For remote Pachakkanam, 9 votes is a record turnout||IDUKKI: The remote Pachakkanam booth, inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR), defied the general trend in the district by registering a rise in voter numbers. But that the final number was just nine is beside the point! "This has never gone beyond six. Even in the last Lok Sabha election, only four votes were cast in this booth. This included those of three polling officials," assistant returning officer K Senkumar told TOI. Confirming the figure, district collector H Dineshan said this is the highest turnout at the booth in recent memory. "The booth was arranged at an anganwadi building within a cardamom plantation. It comes under the Thekkady ward of Kumily grama panchayat and has 32 registered voters," Senkumar said. "Thekkady is the biggest panchayat ward by area. There are 830 voters in the ward, which extends from Mullaperiyar lake to the border with Tamil Nadu. To reach Pachakkanam a team of four polling staff and two police officers travelled a distance of 35km through Vandiperiyar," he said. The team had reached the booth on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/for-remote-pachakkanam-9-votes-is-a-record-turnout/articleshow/79631579.cms||Sandeep Thomas
December 9, 2020||Ludhiana||3 UP natives booked for cyber fraud||Ludhiana: Three Uttar Pradesh natives have been booked by the Ludhiana police for duping a resident of Barewal road of Rs 1.71 lakh. The fraudsters lured the victim on the pretext of doubling the money. The FIR was lodged on Tuesday against Pritama Devi, Neelam Rajput and Gaurav, all of Uttar Pradesh, following an investigation by the cyber cell. In his complaint to police, Amit Vohra of Pushp Vihar of Barewal road stated that he had posted an advertisement on OLX for selling old furniture. He had received a call from an unknown caller, who had shown interest in buying the furniture. The deal was settled for Rs 4,000. Vohra added that during their conversation, the caller introduced him to an online scheme of doubling the money. The accused sent a QR code on WhatsApp and asked him to activate the scheme by clicking on it. After activating the link as a trial he sent Re 1 to the accused and received Rs 2 in return in a few seconds. He added that the accused sent him another link. When he clicked on it, his phone got hacked. Thereafter, the accused managed to get access to his online banking account and stole Rs 1.71 lakh. Additional deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti said that an FIR under Sections 420 (punishment for cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and IT Act had been lodged against the accused at police station, Sarabha Nagar, following a detailed investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-up-natives-booked-for-cyber-fraud/articleshow/79631572.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors can’t guarantee treatment results to patients: HC||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of a doctor and his driver, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court quashed a police complaint against them over a pregnant woman’s death due to alleged negligence, ruling that it’s not possible for him to guarantee treatment results to patients. “In cases where negligence is alleged against professionals like doctors, the court should be careful before instituting criminal proceedings. It’s not possible for any doctor to assure or guarantee that the result of treatment would invariably be positive. The only assurance a professional can give is that he’s professionally competent, has requisite skill and would undertake tasks entrusted to him with reasonable care,” a division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Amit Borkar said while citing Supreme Court’s verdicts. Dr Rajratan Moon and driver Potu Atram, both from Yavatmal, had challenged a FIR against them by Pandharkawda Police Station through counsel Raheel Mirza. The duo was booked for offences under Sections 304, 314, 316 and 201 of the IPC and Sections 4 and 5 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971, for illegally performing abortion leading to patient’s death. Quoting the top court’s verdict in Jacob Mathew’s case, the bench said continuance of proceedings against petitioners would amount to abuse of process of law. “The apex court held that the court should be circumspect before instituting criminal proceedings against a medical professional. It’s further held that the negligence comprises — (i) a legal duty to exercise due care on the part of the party complained of (ii) breach of that duty and (iii) consequential damage,” the judges said. According to the prosecution, a man known to be driver Atram contacted him for carrying out an abortion of his partner. The couple was in a relationship and the woman got pregnant, but she realized it after four months of conceiving. The driver took him to Dr Moon, who performed abortion on her in his hospital on August 5, 2013. However, after her condition deteriorated, the doctor advised the couple to take further treatment in Yavatmal. The driver then arranged a car for carrying her to Yavatmal, but she died on the way. Subsequently, the Dr Moon and Atram were booked for culpable homicide claiming that the former performed woman’s abortion illegally despite being aware of the fact that it may lead to her death. “This isn’t a case where the medical professional should face trial, especially when there’s no allegation of gross negligence against him, nor is there any opinion obtained from a medical expert. The only allegation against him is that he had knowledge that abortion can cause death of his patient. In the facts and circumstances, it can’t be said that he’s guilty of criminal negligence,” the judges held, while quashing FIR against both petitioners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-cant-guarantee-treatment-results-to-patients-hc/articleshow/79631587.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Noted Hindi poet Dabral no more||New Delhi: Noted Hindi poet and journalist Manglesh Dabral, whose verse was a voice for the ignored and which revealed an unbearable longing for the hills he came from, passed away on Wednesday evening following heart attacks caused by Covid-19 complications. He was 72. A Sahitya Akademi recipient for his poetry collection, Hum Jo Dekhte Hain, Dabral “battled Covid-19 and pneumonia in the ICU of the Crest Hospital, Ghaziabad before being shifted to AIIMS,” his friend and fellow poet Asad Zaidi wrote on Facebook. Dabral was born in Kafalpani village in Tehri Garhwal. Pahar Par Lalten and Ghar Ka Raasta are two of his significant works. In his poetry, memory, home and the displacement of soul play critical roles. A translation by Girdhar Rathi of his poem, City, underlines the sensitivity and helplessness of a nowhere man, trapped between the uncaring city and the home that one can never go back to. “I looked at the city / and smiled / and walked in. / Who would ever want to live here / I wondered / and never went back.” Dabral, who worked as a journalist in various newspapers such as Hindi Patriot and Jansatta, was among the foremost Hindi poets of the post-Raghuvir Sahay, Kedarnath Singh era. “He wrote about the worries and needs of those who don’t figure in the imagination of the power people. His poem, Sangatkar, was about the singer who guides the main performer but who’s never in focus and doesn’t have an identity of his own,” says Satyanand Nirupam, editorial director, Rajkamal Prakashan Group. Gentle and soft-spoken, Dabral also spoke out against authoritarianism and communal forces which reflected in his latest collection, Naye Yug Mein Shatru. He had also returned his Sahitya Akademi award in protest against intolerance. “He was an intellectually and ideologically honest person. He refused to attend a famous literature festival because he felt that the sponsors were dubious,” remembers Nirupam. Following his death, CPIML Liberation tweeted, “Covid-19 has claimed an irreplaceable life... Irreparable loss. A truly gentle man, friend of Left, of the CPIML, and people's movements.” Dabral’s poem of life is over. But as he once wrote, “I did not want to apologize / for my despair / I did not want my simple desires / to show on my face / I did not ever want to forget / the way back home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/noted-hindi-poet-dabral-no-more/articleshow/79651380.cms||Avijit Ghosh
December 9, 2020||Ludhiana||Kingpin in Rs 158 crore bogus billing scam arrested||Ludhiana: One of the kingpins of the Rs 158 crore bogus billing Rakesh Arora, alias Raja Bhaiya, alias Dharminder, who was arrested by the central GST (CGST) department from Noida on Saturday, has been remanded in 14-day judicial custody by a local Ludhiana court on Monday. In another major development in this high profile case, the department has summoned some more persons to join its investigation, but it’s unclear whether all of the summoned persons are businessmen or not. Meanwhile, with this arrest all main accused in this case have been tracked. Now, the focus is on the small players, who in connivance with them executed the plan to dupe the government of more than Rs 21 crore by availing of input tax credit by doing bogus billing of Rs 158.10 crore through a network of firms. These were set up on the basis of forged identity proofs. This case, which earlier seemed to be a routine bogus billing investigation, has turned into a very high profile case due to such high number of arrests in less than a month’s span. Interestingly, one of the accused is a prominent chartered accountant (CA) of the city. Three firms — M/s La Mode Fashions, M/s Decent Fashions and M/s Murari Enterprises — were used by the accused for fake invoicing and availing input tax credit through fraudulent means. Besides, arrest of Rakesh Arora on Saturday, the CA, a private accountant and another Noida businessman have already been arrested in the matter by the CGST department and except for the accountant the other three are already in judicial custody. The already arrested Noida businessman through his statements has already admitted to creating a fake identity through documents like Aadhar card, PAN card, etc. and receipt of remunerations for creation of two dummy firms. In these two firms the accused had created fake invoices of Rs 153.15 crore and generated fake input tax credit of Rs 17.11 crore and monetized refund of Rs 2.90 crore through fake input tax credits. He has been placed under arrest and remanded in judicial custody till December 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kingpin-in-rs-158-crore-bogus-billing-scam-arrested/articleshow/79631591.cms||Mohit Behl
December 9, 2020||Bareilly||CM to inaugurate sulphur-free sugar plants at Basti, Gorakhpur mills today||Pilibhit: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate on Wednesday two sulphur-free sugar processing plants at Munderwa mill in Basti district and Pipraich mill in Gorakhpur at 12 noon and 1 pm, respectively. The sugar mills were established by the UP State Sugar Corporation Limited. Sanjay R. Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, said this is the first time in the state that the sulphur-free sugar plants have been inducted into sugar mills in the cooperative sector. While inaugurating these mills last year, CM Yogi had announced that they would soon start producing sulphur-free sugar, the sale proceeds of which would help pay cane-growers. “The Pipraich and Munderwa sugar mills are also engaged in electricity production and earned a total revenue of Rs 32.70 crore by generating 3,15,690 and 41,877 megawatts, respectively. These mills had produced 4.43 and 4.02 lakh quintals of sugar by crushing 45.43 and 44.18 lakh quintals of sugarcane respectively,” Bhoosreddy said. Both mills had made 100% payment to cane-growers in the previous crushing season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cm-to-inaugurate-sulphur-free-sugar-plants-at-basti-gorakhpur-mills-today/articleshow/79630434.cms||Keshav Agarwal
December 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Four, including policeman, booked for death of pregnant woman||AURANGABAD: The special squad of the Aurangabad city police has added section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code in a case involving the mysterious death of a 24-year-old woman, who happened to be the daughter-in-law of a serving assistant police sub-inspector. Kulsum, who was six-months pregnant, was found dead under mysterious conditions in the Satara area of Aurangabad city on October 4. At the time of the incident, her husband Anisuddin Siddiqui had claimed that she was feeling unwell and had fallen unconscious at home, following which he rushed her to a private hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Citing injury marks on Kulsum’s body, her parents lodge a complaint and on their demand, an autopsy was performed. Taking cognizance of the initial complaint, Satara area police station registered a case under section 304 B of the IPC (dowry death) and booked Siddiqui, his brother Danish, his father, who is a serving policeman, and his mother. Investigation officer and assistant inspector Dipali Nikam said Danish was arrested and recently has been released on bail. Anisuddin surrendered after the forensic report concluded that Kulsum died due to strangulation. Nikam confirmed that since the registration of the offence, the accused policeman and his wife were on the run and efforts were on to nab them. Sources said that the case was transferred to the special squad under the crime branch after the Kulsum’s parents reached out to Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-including-policeman-booked-for-death-of-pregnant-woman/articleshow/79633864.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Plan to turn Delhi into startup destination||New Delhi: Delhi government is at an advanced stage of rolling out a startup policy being developed after consultations with leading entrepreneurs. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said this while addressing The IndUS Entrepreneurs (TiE) global summit where he also shared his government’s efforts in building a comprehensive framework and turning the capital into a global startup destination. Under the startup policy, collateral-free loans would be provided and a dedicated helpline would be established. Startups would be able to use the government’s doorstep service by dialing 1076 and get a chartered accountant’s or lawyer’s help in incorporating a company from their home or office. Reforms would be initiated to have a single-window for all interactions with government departments. Opportunities would be given to showcase innovations through hackathons and startup challenges to investors in India and across the world. A range of provisions would be laid out to encourage and facilitate startups in Delhi. “To help startups grow, we will form a range of networks with incubators, co-working spaces, and fabrication labs. We will enable easy access to experts in accounting, taxation, registration, legal help, digital marketing, etc. Delhi government will align its public procurement in a manner that a fixed percentage of all goods and services are procured through recognised start-ups,” Kejriwal said. A TiE report released in September 2019 showed that there were over 7,000 startups in Delhi-NCR, which was the highest number across the country. The valuation of the city’s startups is about 50 billion dollars. The region has produced 13 unicorns like PayTM, Oyo and Zomato. At least one new unicorn has emerged every year since 2013. “Between January and June this year, 109 startups were founded in Delhi-NCR, the highest number being in the first six months,” said the CM. “Delhi-NCR is set to become one of the top five global hubs with 12,000 startups and 30 unicorns. Their cumulative valuation will be about 150 billion dollars by 2025,” said Kejriwal, adding that the AAP government was committed to providing world-class infrastructure and services to startups and businesses in Delhi. Delhi government is also setting up in seven phases a hi-tech business park at Rani Khera over 150 acres, which would be just 15 minutes away from IGI Airport. This first-of-its-kind park would have IT and service industries, among others. The first phase, in which a multi-storeyed building of 15 lakh square feet has been planned, would be completed by August 31, 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plan-to-turn-delhi-into-startup-destination/articleshow/79651460.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 9, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: From newspapers to promises, delivery key for these candidates||KOZHIKODE: A person who visits most of the houses in a ward daily could definitely have an advantage in the local-body election, in which personal connect counts. Banking on this familiarity with residents, around a dozen newspaper agents are in the fray as candidates for various political parties in Malappuram district. They have also made their presence felt on the Wayanad and Kozhikode election scene, too. Most claim that the prospect of having an elected representative who would visit their houses daily is one which would appeal to voters. T A Aneesh, a newspaper agent and member representing Vadakkkanad ward of Wayanad’s Noolpuzha panchayat, is now seeking a second term as an LDF candidate from Kalloor ward. “Being a newspaper agent has helped me a lot in my tenure as panchayat member. I used to submit application forms for beneficiaries of various schemes along with the newspaper and used to collect the forms after they are filled,” he said. Aneesh adds that he continued the job as newspaper agent even after being elected panchayat member as it provided a unique opportunity to be connected with voters. The daily morning routine of delivering newspapers, however, has not prevented most of them from visiting the same houses to solicit votes as part of their campaign. “I have been distributing newspapers for the last 25 years. I started as a delivery boy when I was just 12. I have been a daily phenomenon at all the houses and that cuts the need for an introduction during my campaign visits. I have faith that the bond developed over the years will help me in this election,” said Ummer Palamadathil, who is contesting as an LDF-backed independent candidate in ward 4 of AR Nagar panchayat in Malappuram. K Mohammedali , who has been a newspaper agent for over two decades, said that as many as 12 newspaper agents are contesting the election in Malappuram district. “As I have been active in politics, my subscribers used to approach me with issues faced by them, including roads and streetlights, when I deliver newspapers. I hope that the bond will put me in good stead in the elections,” said Mohammedali, who is UDF candidate in 16th ward of Irimbilium panchayat in Malappuram. Among the other candidates is K Ashik, who has been a newspaper agent for the last 22 years. He is contesting the election as a UDF candidate in ward 5 of Malappuram’s Cherukavu panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/from-newspapers-to-promises-delivery-key-for-these-candidates/articleshow/79631637.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||She does last rites of foster father on eve of marriage||Rajkot: With henna in her hand she lit the funeral pyre of her foster father in Veraval on Sunday night, a day before her wedding was scheduled. Though the wedding has been postponed, Ayushi Tanna (25) defied the century old custom which dictate that the last rites are supposed to be performed by the male child of the deceased. Her foster father Ashok Tanna (62) died of a heart attack. Ashok was taken to a private hospital in Veraval, where his condition deteriorated, following which it was decided that he would be taken to a hospital in Rajkot. However, he breathed his last on his way to Rajkot on Sunday evening. Ashok had adopted Ayushi, the daughter of his younger brother Jayesh Tanna, as he had no children. Ayushi was adopted within a month after her birth.“My papa Ashokbhai had nurtured me like a flower and had brought me up with love and care. He gave me good education and all that I asked for,” said Ayushi, who got a job in a private firm of Ahmedabad after graduation.“Usually the funeral pyre of the deceased is lit by the elder son. However, as Ashokbhai had no children, I became his son and performed his last rites,” she said. Ayushi’s marriage, which was scheduled on Monday, has been postponed due to her adoptive father’s demise. Ashok’s uncle Vikram Tanna is the president of Veraval Lohana Mahajan Samaj. Ashok had a shop selling pesticides in Veraval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/she-does-last-rites-of-foster-father-on-eve-of-marriage/articleshow/79611750.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Taxmen unearth land cache, evasion suspected||AHMEDABAD: In a major action against Popular Group, associated with construction and real estate in the city and state, the income tax (I-T) department found a land cache of 5.92 lakh sq metres in and around Ahmedabad which allegedly belongs to the group through proxies. The department sent notices to the holders under the Benami Property Transaction Act and further investigation has begun. I-T department sleuths had carried out searches on establishments linked to the Popular Group in October when 27 premises were covered and 23 lockers were found. Department officials also found a ‘secret premises’ in an apartment from where the huge cache of documents were seized. The department officials said that so far, they have found valuables worth Rs 3.19 crore – including Rs 91 lakh cash and 2.27 crore worth of ornaments – from the premises and lockers. “The documents seized led the teams to land pockets around the city – some of which were bought in 1990s. To evade the tax liability, first the farming cooperatives were formed which were later converted into housing cooperatives. After several change of hands, the money trail from the proceeds of sale or acquisition would invariably lead us to the Popular Group promoters and those near to them,” said an official close to the development. The department also identified 10 persons – either part of the extended family of Popular Group, or old acquaintances – along with 10-plus cooperative societies on whose names the properties were acquired. Sources said that some of them did not even pay income tax at the time of purchase – raising suspicion of back-door financing. Majority of the documents related to these properties were found from the secret premises – including signed deeds, cheques and several financial instruments, which should be with the owners, said investigators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/taxmen-unearth-land-cache-evasion-suspected/articleshow/79631647.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nashik||Watchman found dead in Malegaon||NASHIK: A 65-year-old watchman of a restaurant was allegedly stabbed to death by unidentified people in Malegaon in the early hours of Tuesday. The victim has been identified as Krushna Chaitram Sonawane, resident of Shabrimata area of Chandanpuri in Malegaon. The police suspect that Sonawane could have been killed by four unidentified robbers, who attempted to commit a burglary inside a truck parked in the nearby area. The robbers had to beat a hasty retreat after truck cleaner resisted their bid on the same night. The police said Sonawane had a paan stall near the hotel which he used to run during the day-time. He stayed overnight in the restaurant as a watchman and used to visit his family once in a week. However, his wife used to regularly bring lunch for him in the afternoon. The police said that Sonawane’s wife had to go some other village on Monday for some programme, following which, she came to meet her husband at around 7 am and found him lying in a pool of blood. She then lodged a complaint with the police. The police said that according to the truck cleaner, the criminals were around 25 years of age and escaped on foot from the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/watchman-found-dead-in-malegaon/articleshow/79633868.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Specialists debate Covid’s transmission through blood||Pune: Can SARS-CoV-2 be transmitted via blood transfusion? A case from Pune has become central to the debate on this contentious route. The city patient, a man with a severe form of blood cancer, had received blood stem cells from his Covid-positive son in June. It has now been just over six months, but he hasn’t shown any signs of infection. Haematologist Sameer Melinkeri, associated with the patient’s treatment at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said this was India’s first bone marrow transplant from a confirmed Covid-positive donor.But experts said possibility of transmission via blood cannot be ruled out. “It is possible there was nil or not enough virus in the bone marrow cells to cause infection,” said virologist and former director of the National Institute of Virology, Deepak Gadkari. He said, “Situation can be different if there is a requirement for a large quantity or multiple transfusions of blood and blood products.”A similar case — from Thailand — was reported in the journal Bone Marrow Transplantation. A Covid-positive boy — in an emergency procedure — donated bone marrow to his seven-year-old sister who has thalassemia. The girl did not test positive for the virus.“But blood or bone marrow donation from Covid positive donors is not recommended,” Gadkari said.The expert added, “We have experience with HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C viruses. Rules on mandatory Covid testing of blood donors should come soon from regulatory bodies,” he said.Christian Medical College (CMC) Vellore’s haematologist Biju George was of a different view. He said, “Healthy people with Covid have high viral loads in the throat and lungs during infection. But during this time, the virus is rarely detected in the blood and bone marrow.”George also pointed to anecdotal reports of apheresis platelets being transfused from an asymptomatic donor (who tested positive for Covid later) into a patient who urgently needed platelet transfusion.Apheresis is a procedure that involves removing whole blood from a donor or patient and separating it into components so that one particular component can be removed. The rest of the components are then re-introduced into the bloodstream of the patient or donor.“Follow-ups did not detect Covid-19 in the patient who received the platelet transfusion from a positive donor,” George said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/specialists-debate-covids-transmission-through-blood/articleshow/79631659.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 9, 2020||Trichy||133 Covid-19 cases in south TN, 134 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 133 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, making it the lowest daily cases in the region in more than two weeks. The lone Covid-19 death recorded in the region was a 47-year-old man from Madurai. Meanwhile, the central region registered 134 cases taking the tally to 71,656, which include 954 active cases and 69,798 recoveries. Tiruvarur recorded the deaths of a 48-year-old man pushing the toll to 904 in the region. Among the fresh cases, Madurai (26) recorded the highest in the southern region, followed by Kanyakumari (24). Ramanathapuram (3) district recorded the lowest, followed by Tenkasi (6), Theni (7), Sivagangai (11), Tuticorin (12), Tirunelveli (14), Dindigul (15) and Virudhunagar (15). Active cases in the region marginally dipped to 1,251 from 1,294 on Monday. Madurai (216) is the only district with more than 200 active cases in the region. Ramanathapuram (39) has the lowest number of active cases and is followed by Theni (50), Sivagangai (65) and Tenkasi (92). Tiruvarur registered 29 fresh cases, the highest in the central region, while Nagappattinam and Trichy reported 25 cases each. Thanjavur reported 23 cases taking the tally to 16,638. The district has 198 active cases, while 16,211 have been discharged from healthcare centres. Trichy (201) has the highest number of active cases, while it is 172 in Nagappattinam. Peramablur reported no fresh cases on Tuesday also though its tally is 2,246. Ariyalur reported three fresh cases as it has 24 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/133-covid-19-cases-in-south-tn-134-in-central-region/articleshow/79633079.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popular Builders group: It all began from 26 sacks of documents||AHMEDABAD: I-T department sleuths said their search on premises linked to the Popular Builders group, carried out in the second week of October, fetched a huge cache of documents from an apartment in Satellite. The premises, under Popular Group confidante Bharat Patel, was used to hide thousands of documents. Multiple teams of the department sifted through account entries, cheque books, ownership documents, papers related to formation and addition of new members, to piece together the entire picture of how the tax evasion was planned. “The majority of the ‘holders’ of the land and members of the cooperative societies are distant relatives of the promoters of Popular Group, while some are old employees. Bharat Patel and a few other persons are recurring members of these cooperatives. Several were not even paying income tax at the time of the purchase of land,” said an official privy to the developments. Officials said that some of cooperative members and ‘land holders’ were drawing salaries from Popular Group, whereas some were promised 1% of the proceeds of the land sale. “We have seen several of inter-group entries and various modi operandi to evade tax, but this case is unique in the sense that it took years of meticulous planning to ensure that there’s was no tax liability in the future,” said an official. “The money trail also stops at certain individuals. When the land is ‘bought’ from them by Popular Group, the money transferred doesn’t get reflected.” Thus, the case resulted in over 500 notices from the department and attachment of 49 properties as the department continued its investigation into various documents and paper trails found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/it-all-began-from-26-sacks-of-documents/articleshow/79631666.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Experts feel Centre may consider different shots to check contagion||PUNE: Experts feel that the Centre will consider more than one vaccine and allocate the shots that have been cleared to each state depending on the manufacturing and supply capacity in terms of cold chain. Vaccine expert Dr Gagandeep Kang said there was a committee that would decide the vaccine to be allocated (after the emergency authorization) depending on factors such as supply system, cold chain availability and the total number of health workers to be covered. Kang said all the approved vaccines should have adequate data to support quality, safety and efficacy for the appropriate stage of review and approval, whether emergency, accelerated or full licensure. “In India, we have experience in handling over one vaccine product, distributing them by states with the decision making based on supply, cold chain, timing and other logistics. There is no right number for how many vaccines should be available in the country,” she said. Dr Giridhar R Babu, professor and head of lifecourse epidemiology, told TOI that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation should consider the data from the Indian trials with strict focus and review of safety data is necessary for making any decision to roll out vaccines in the country. Dr Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology and communicable disease division of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said more vaccine players might enter the scenario, but three companies have applied for emergency authorization so far. “Pfizer, Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have sought approvals for their vaccines. The Drugs Controller General of India will take time to review the proposals,” he said. Dr Lalitkant, former head of epidemiology at ICMR, said no single vaccine manufacturer could meet India’s requirement. “The country will need different vaccines. It is difficult to say how the allocation will be made. A state-wise allocation might be the easiest approach.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-feel-centre-may-consider-different-shots-to-check-contagion/articleshow/79631643.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 9, 2020||Nashik||Dhule police seize 25 swords, two held||NASHIK: Dhule police have arrested two people and seized 19 swords from them in the Kapda Bazaar area under the Chalisgaon Road police station on Friday night. During the course of interrogation, the police found that the duo had sold six more swords to four people from Malegaon. The police then rushed to Malegaon and arrested them. Meanwhile, the person from whom the duo had purchased the swords is absconding. API Vilas Thakre of the Chalisgaon Road police station said, “The four people to whom the duo had sold the swords claimed that they had purchased the swords to cut their birthday cakes. All the swords have been seized.” Thakre said, “The swords can be sharpened at any time and this could be done in a matter of a few minutes.” This seizure of swords comes within a few days of the seizure of 40 swords from Malegaon. Three people have been arrested in connection with the swords seized in Malegaon. The main suspect in Malegaon case is still at large. Pratap Dighavkar, IG (Special) has instructed the SPs of Nashik rural and Dhule police to thoroughly investigate the case and trace the suppliers of the swords. “The teams have been formed to trace the supplier of the swords, which are coming into the region in large numbers,” said Thakre. Over the past few days, a large number of swords have been seized from some or the other part of the district. Recently, the Nashik city police also seized two swords from the Takli Road area of the city. Of late, a large number of robberies are taking place everywhere in the district and the criminals generally put their victims to fear with the help of sharp weapons or firearms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dhule-police-seize-25-swords-two-held/articleshow/79633886.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Delhi||JNU may soon offer courses in regional languages||New Delhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University may become the first such institute in the country to offer non-technical courses in regional languages. The university, which has constituted an apex committee to study National Education Policy 2020, is working on modalities to offer subjects such as political science, economic and international relations in regional languages. These courses may also be offered on the online platform. M Jagadesh Kumar, vice-chancellor of JNU, said, “Discussions about offering courses in regional language are on at present, though nothing has been finalised.” JNU is looking at starting with Hindi as a medium, before extending to other languages. In the coming years, JNU also plans to increase undergraduate courses in the form of four-year programmes. “The committee is working out a plan where many provisions of NEP could be implemented without funding being an issue. There are a couple of things in active consideration, including offering courses in regional language and introduction of the four-year-undergraduate programme,” a senior official, who is part of the committee, said. The apex committee is finding out about the courses that can be offered immediately, he added. Stating that offering high-quality courses in regional language will be true democratisation of education, the vice-chancellor said, “Most people are coming from villages and those with disadvantaged backgrounds are more determined to do well. All we need is to provide the opportunity.” Pointing out that as per the Census, only 12% of the country’s population knows English, Kumar said, “The top 10 countries with the highest number of Nobel awardees deliver their education till the PhD level in their mother tongue. In fact, 95% of the engineering and medical students stay in their home states and it will be tremendously advantageous for them as well as for the development of that region.” If this becomes a reality, these courses will also be offered online. “We are launching our online courses with the vision to reach out to over five lakh scholars who will get to study the same programmes offered in this campus sitting at their home and studying in their own language,” the VC added. Also in sync with NEP’s plan, JNU will, according to Kumar, increase its undergraduate offering through the four-year programme, which will have multiple exit options. However, no time frame has been decided as “such things need a lot of deliberation and preparations”, the apex committee member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jnu-may-soon-offer-courses-in-regional-languages/articleshow/79651507.cms||Manash Pratim Gohain
December 9, 2020||World||US Supreme Court rejects Republican challenge to Biden's Pennsylvania win||WASHINGTON: The US Supreme Court on Tuesday handed a defeat to Republicans seeking to throw out up to 2.5 million mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania as they try to undo President Donald Trump's election loss, with the justices refusing to block the state from formalizing President-elect Joe Biden's victory there. The court in a brief order rejected a request by US congressman Mike Kelly, a Trump ally, and other Pennsylvania Republicans who filed a lawsuit after the Nov. 3 election arguing that the state's 2019 expansion of mail-in voting was illegal under state law. Pennsylvania was one of the pivotal states in the election, with Biden, a Democrat, defeating Trump after the Republican president won the state in 2016. State officials had already certified the election results. There were no noted dissents from any of the justices on the court, which has a 6-3 conservative majority including three Trump appointees. Trump had urged the Republican-led Senate to confirm his most recent nominee, Justice Amy Coney Barrett, before Election Day so she could participate in any election-related cases. Trump has falsely claimed that he won re-election, making unfounded claims about widespread voting fraud in states including Pennsylvania. Democrats and other critics have accused Trump of aiming to reduce public confidence in the integrity of US elections and undermine democracy by trying to subvert the will of the voters. "This election is over. We must continue to stop this circus of 'lawsuits' and move forward," Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro, a Democrat, wrote on Twitter. The Supreme Court also must decide what to do with another election-related case brought on Tuesday. Republican-governed Texas, hoping to help Trump, mounted an unusual effort to overturn the election results in Pennsylvania and three other states - Georgia, Michigan and Wisconsin - by filing a lawsuit against them directly at the Supreme Court. The Republican plaintiffs argued that the universal, "no-excuse" mail-in ballot program passed by the Republican-controlled Pennsylvania legislature in 2019, enabling voters to cast ballots by mail for any reason, violated the state's constitution. Biden won Pennsylvania by 80,000 votes and received a much higher proportion of the mail-in votes than Trump. Many more people voted by mail this year because of health concerns prompted by the coronavirus pandemic as they sought to avoid crowds at polling places. Ahead of the election, Trump urged his supporters not to vote by mail, making groundless claims that mail-in voting - a longstanding feature of American elections - was rife with fraud. 'JUDICIAL POWER' Pennsylvania said in a court filing that the Republican challengers were asking the justices to "undertake one of the most dramatic, disruptive invocations of judicial power" in US history by nullifying a state's certification of its election results. The state said most of what the challengers had sought was moot because the election results already were certified and what they were really wanted was for "the court overturn the results of the election." Pennsylvania's top court on Nov. 28 dismissed the challenge, saying that the lawsuit was not filed in a timely manner when the mail-in voting law was first enacted. It threw out a lower court ruling that had ordered the state not to certify the election pending a hearing. Trump's campaign and his allies have lost in a stream of lawsuits in key states won by Biden, also including Georgia, Michigan, Wisconsin and others. Judges have rejected sweeping assertions of voting irregularities. Biden has amassed 306 electoral votes - exceeding the necessary 270 - compared to 232 for Trump in the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the election's outcome, while also winning the national popular vote by more than 7 million votes. Tuesday represents a "safe harbor" deadline set by an 1887 US law for states to certify presidential election results. Meeting the deadline is not mandatory but provides assurance that a state's results will not be second-guessed by Congress. After this deadline, Trump could still pursue lawsuits seeking to overturn Biden's victory but the effort would become even more difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-supreme-court-rejects-republican-challenge-to-bidens-pennsylvania-win/articleshow/79634548.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra poll panel seeks draft of ward delimitation from KMC||KOLHAPUR: The state election commission has asked the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation to submit the draft delimitation of wards. The draft delimitation of wards, includes the extent and boundaries of every ward, the population in the wards. The map of each ward with boundaries marked clearly has to be submitted. There are 81 wards in the KMC jurisdiction and each will have one corporator. The delimitation of wards was carried out during last election. The officials claim that there is no need to change as the population has remained more or less same for each ward. KMC’s election officer Vijay Vankudre said, “We have draft delimitation ready. After submission to the commission, suggestion and objections will be called. The drafts will be made open for public to see. We are hopeful that the final ward structures will be ready by month end after which the election commission may announce the further step to draw reservations.” The city had total votes 4.25 lakh in 2015. Now, the voters list is being prepared and the KMC has appealed to citizens to check their names in the list. The voters list for the assembly elections held last year will be used by some updation. The wards have to be reserved for scheduled categories and backward categories. The wards with large number of population of scheduled categories are reserved first. The lots are drawn in front of public. The parties make calculations based on the reserved wards. For every category, 30% wards will be reserved for women. “Draft delimitation of wards will be presented before divisional commissioner after which by December 11 the draft will be submitted to the commission,” said Vankudre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-poll-panel-seeks-draft-of-ward-delimitation-from-kmc/articleshow/79633922.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: 100 more PMPML buses to curb crowding in Covid-19 times||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will increase its present on-road fleet by 100 more buses, which will ply only during the peak hours, to prevent crowding in vehicles during Covid-19. At present, the PMPML is running 1,150 buses across the city on many routes. Before the pandemic, the transport body would run 1,500 to 1,600 buses. “The 100 extra buses will ply on routes witnessing a large number of commuters. These routes are in the final phase of being identified, following which the service will start. The buses will run from 8am to noon and then from 4pm to 8pm. With more buses on the roads during the peak hours, we are sure that the crowding will be controlled,” a senior PMPML official said. According to the regulations, not more than 22 passengers can travel in a standard-sized PMPML bus. Also, not more than two passengers can be seen standing in the bus, while its moving and each seat can have only one passenger. Wearing masks is compulsory for those travelling in the buses. In an earlier conversation, PMPML’s chairman-cum-managing director Rajendra Jagtap said the mindset of the people had to change. “We have been doing our bit and are trying hard. However, the fact remains that many people don’t listen and don’t follow the regulations. The PMPML has not been given any authority, such as the municipal corporations or the police, to fine people for violations,” he had said. Another official said the decision to allow PMPML buses to run at full capacity, which meant all seats occupied with passengers, couldn’t be unilaterally taken by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/100-more-pmpml-buses-to-curb-crowding-in-ncov-times/articleshow/79631680.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Curious case of appointments at DSE||New Delhi: The process of appointment to the posts of assistant professor at DU’s Delhi School of Economics (DSE) has resulted in the resignation of two key functionaries. The row started when despite subject expert committee members stating that “no candidate found suitable” for nine positions out of the 14, Delhi University wanted DSE to finalise those appointments. DSE had advertised for the appointments under different categories — five each for unreserved and other backward class candidates, two for scheduled caste, and one each for scheduled tribe and economically weaker section. During interviews, the subject experts of the selection committee had unanimously decided on just five candidates. But the observers belonging to different categories, who were made part of the committee to ensure fairness in the process, insisted that the names had to be cleared. In protest, then head Sudhir Shah tendered his resignation on the ground that the subject expert was completely ignored. Sunil Kanwar, the then department chairperson, also resigned on the same ground. “There were a number of open positions. The interviews were conducted by three economics experts. Observers didn’t ask any question. At the end of interviews, subject experts gave their views,” a teacher said, adding that while nobody was found suitable in a couple of categories, fewer names than the number of openings were suggested in a few others. “The experts recommended filling of less than half of the positions. But the university used the observers as voting members of the selection committee, disregarding the views of the expert committee,” the teacher said. The subject experts had agreed on two unreserved, two OBC and one ST candidates. A teacher questioned if the observers had voting rights. During DU’s executive council meeting on Tuesday, the matter was debated and discussed in detail. The stand of the stakeholders at DSE was that the selection should be based on the experts’ unanimous recommendations and it wanted the positions to be advertised again. “The selection committee met more than 15 months after the applications were closed. Several good candidates across all categories had accepted permanent positions elsewhere. So we wanted the university to re-advertise the posts,” said a teacher. However, the university said the decision would be taken as per the majority vote. Dean of colleges Balram Pani did not respond to calls on the matter. EC member Rajesh Jha, however, pointed out, “One cannot say nobody was found suitable. That is against the principle of social justice. They have to select candidates from those appearing for interview. Not appointing candidates from other categories will be discriminatory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/curious-case-of-appointments-at-dse/articleshow/79651538.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 9, 2020||Pune||Recoveries rise above 3.3 lakh, 17 more dead||Pune: The Covid-19 recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) surpassed 3.30 lakh-mark on Tuesday, with 924 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours. The rural and cantonment areas together accounted for 553 recoveries, while the PMC and PCMC limits recorded 220 and 151 discharges, respectively, on Tuesday. Among 3.30 lakh recoveries, the PMC has highest share of 1.62 lakh discharges, followed by the PCMC limits (89,898) and the rural areas (77,195). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 567 people tested positive for Covid-19 in PMR on Tuesday, taking its caseload above 3.48 lakh. The report stated that 17 patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Tuesday, including eight from the PMC limits and six from the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recoveries-rise-above-3-3-lakh-17-more-dead/articleshow/79631694.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 9, 2020||Trichy||Man dies as school compound wall collapses on house||Trichy: A 45-year-old man died and his wife and five children suffered injuries when the compound wall of a government-aided school collapsed at Kottapatti near Manapparai in the early hours of Tuesday. The more than 60 years old wall had weakened due to continuous rainfall and collapsed.The deceased has been identified as P Selvakumar of Adi Dravidar Colony in the village. His wife Rasathi, 40, daughter Krishnaveni, 21, son Mohan, 19, two other daughters in the age of 17 and 11 years and an eight-year-old son suffered injuries. Selvakumar worked in a spinning mill.The incident took place at around 2.15am. The eight feet compound wall of St Xavier Middle School at Kottapatti, fell on the roof of Selvakumar’s house and a portion of the house collapsed on all six of the family, who were asleep. Neighbours came to the family's rescue. The Manapparai police and the fire and rescue personnel were alerted. They managed to rescue them but Selvakumar had already died. His wife was admitted to the government headquarters hospital in Manapparai, while the children escaped with minor injuries. Inspector of police N Anbazhagan said that they registered a case against the administrator of the school on charges of causing death by negligence, causing grievous hurt by act endangering life of personal safety of others and causing hurt to anybody by negligent act under IPC. Expressing his condolences chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami ordered Rs 4 lakh solatium to the kin of the deceased from the state disaster relief fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-dies-as-school-compound-wall-collapses-on-house/articleshow/79633102.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Murder bid charge on promoters in Bavla||AHMEDABAD: A land broker from Bavla in Ahmedabad district on Monday filed a complaint of attempt to murder and abduction against the controversial promoters of Popular Builders, Prathmesh Patel and Vikram Patel. The two are the nephews of the jailed builders, Dashrath and Raman Patel. In his FIR filed with Anandnagar police, Bharat Algotar states that Prathmesh and Vikram met him in October 2018 and offered him a plot in Godhavi village for Rs 1.10 crore. Later, Algotar had a sale agreement drawn up with Prathmesh and gave him Rs 75 lakh as initial payment. After taking the money from Algotar, both Prathmesh and Vikram stopped communicating with him. Algotar alleged that whenever he tried asking for land documents, the two dodged his queries giving one excuse or another. Algotar kept pursuing the matter. Prathmesh on September 16 called him to Shyamal Crossroads. From there Prathmesh and Vikram, along with four unidentified men, allegedly abducted Algotar and took him to Sindhu Bhavan Road. Algotar alleged that Prathmesh pointed a gun at him and tried to strangle him. Later Algotar was thrashed and forced to sign a blank document. Algotar said that since the persons behind Popular Builders have long criminal records, he did not approach police immediately. After Raman Patel and his son Monang were arrested in an attempt to murder case and Dashrath and his son Virendra Patel were arrested in an illegal confinement case, Algotar filed his complaint. Police have registered a fresh complaint against Prathmesh and Vikram under the charges of attempt to murder, criminal confinement, breach of trust, cheating, and criminal conspiracy. The Arms Act has been invoked as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/murder-bid-charge-on-promoters/articleshow/79631695.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Agra||Exclusive Museum to showcase life and contribution of AMU’s founder Sir Syed in Delhi||Agra: Pictures and historical records showcasing founder of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) Sir Syed Ahmad Khan's life, contribution to educational and social reforms, description of various stages of Muhammadan Anglo Oriental (MAO) College to the establishment of AMU in 1920 and several other artefacts will be displayed at a New Delhi- based museum.The announcement to open a new museum dedicated to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan was made by eminent entrepreneur and president of the India Islamic Cultural Centre Sirajuddin Qureshi during the valedictory function of AMU Centenary International Webinar on ‘The Establishment of Aligarh Muslim University and its Achievements (1920-2020)’ organised by the Sir Syed Academy.Qureshi said, “Sir Syed was not just an ordinary educationist, historian, author and jurist but an extra-ordinary reformer, secular nationalist and one of the most important architects of modern India. People in Delhi should be provided with unfettered access to life and works of Sir Syed exhibited in an advanced museum.”AMU vice-chancellor Prof Tariq Mansoor said that all the necessary help and cooperation for the museum project will be provided by Qureshi. He added, “We also have plans to begin PhD programme in Sir Syed Academy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/exclusive-museum-to-showcase-life-and-contribution-of-amus-founder-sir-syed-in-delhi/articleshow/79630519.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Dutch woman held for car theft tests Covid+ve, admitted to hospital||KOLHAPUR: A 24-year-old woman from the Netherlands, who was arrested by the Satara police on Sunday after she allegedly sped away with a car parked along the road and hit another vehicle near Karad, has tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to hospital, said the Satara police on Tuesday. Pauline Korneila Geesje was on a tourist visa in India and that preliminary investigation has found that the tenure of the visa has been extended, said police. She has been charged under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 279 (driving vehicle in rash and negligent manner), 427 committing mischief and causing loss, besides section 184 of the Motor Vehicle Act (driving dangerously), 3 (181) (driving without licence). A Satara court granted her bail in the accident case, but sent her to magisterial custody on the charges of stealing the car, said police. Investigating officer Ajit Patil told TOI that the Covid-19 test was conducted on the woman, which is mandatory after arrest of a suspect, and she was admitted to the Satara civil hospital after her report came positive for the contagion. According to police, the woman was camping in Pune and had gone to Chiplun in Ratnagiri district. She was returning to Pune on a motorcycle. On her way to Karad, she abandoned the two-wheeler after running out of fuel and sped away with a car parked along the road by one Dnyandeo Nalawade. Police said Nalawade was buying something in a shop and saw the woman fleeing with his car, following which he came out and raised an alarm. Two police personnel present at the spot soon gave a chase to the car on their motorcycle. The woman, however, did not stop and entered Karad town at high speed before hitting a vehicle driven by one Nanasaheb Shankar Pawar. She was rounded up by police after she hit a road divider and the car turned turtle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dutch-woman-held-for-car-theft-tests-covidve-admitted-to-hospital/articleshow/79633948.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region: Health staff must register by tomorrow for first jabs||PUNE: Employees of hospitals and clinics in the Pune Metropolitan Region will have to register their names by December 10 if they wish to be a part of the priority Covid vaccination programme, aimed at protecting frontline healthcare workers. Officials have also urged healthcare institutions — both from the private and public sectors — to provide details of their staff within the next 48 hours. So far, a total of 76,822 (70%) of the estimated 1.09 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) in the region have volunteered to take the shot.  But concerns still remain around a sizeable chunk of healthcare workers who are yet to sign up. Lack of transparency during vaccine development and doubts over safety have been cited as chief reasons for the hesitancy. “The December 10 deadline is in line with the Centre's plan,” said district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. Within Pune municipal limits, there are an estimated 60,000 HCWs — 43,607 have so far registered with the PMC’s health department. “In PMC limits, healthcare staff can ideally register their names by noon December 9 (Wednesday). We will need at least a day to scrutinize and upload the data onto the central government’s portal,” said city immunization officer Amit Shah. Pawan Salve, head of the PCMC’s health department, said, “We have to stick to the government’s plan. If the Centre allows it, we can include names even after the deadline.” He added, “The scrutiny of names that have to be uploaded also includes linking of Aadhaar. It is not just a numbers game.”  Sanjay Patil, vice president of the IMA’s state chapter said, “The healthcare workers’ details collated at the municipal and district levels is consolidated data of medical and non-medical staff of hospitals and clinics. It’s still unclear how many of them are doctors and nurses.” He added, “There is no definitive drug against Covid. So we’re obviously relying on vaccines. But there are quite a few doctors unwilling to take the shot for reasons that range from reservations on transparency to concerns over safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/health-staff-must-register-by-tomorrow-for-first-jabs/articleshow/79631703.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bodakdev man lies about being a cop to dodge fine||AHMEDABAD: In a bid to avoid a fine for not wearing a mask, a businessman from Bodakdev told a cop that he himself was a sub-inspector with Gujarat police. Later, when he was made to produce proof of this, he confessed to not being a cop. This incident took place near the Goga Maharaj temple in the Bodakdev area, when a constable of Vastrapur police saw a parked SUV in which a man and woman were sitting without mask. The constable went to the two and asked them why they were not wearing masks and told them to pay the fine. To this, the man told the cop that he was a sub-inspector working at Police Bhawan in Gandhinagar. The constable called his PSI telling him that he had accidentally caught a sub-inspector without a mask. Vastrapur PSI M B Jadeja rushed to the spot and asked the person where he works and to show his identity card. The man first told Jadeja that his name is Shailesh Maheshwari and he works at Police Bhawan. As Jadeja insisted on proof, he said he had forgotten his wallet at home and sought time to get his identity card. To this, Jadeja told him to get it on the phone via WhatsApp. As he did not have any such identity card, he confessed that he was lying. Jadeja said the accused was identified as Shailesh Maheshwari , 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-lies-about-being-a-cop-to-dodge-fine/articleshow/79631701.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Months after ‘unlock’, Pune residents still opt for subscription-based purchases||PUNE: It has been months since the unlock process was initiated yet some city residents are still sticking with local businesses for their subscription-based services. When the lockdown was implemented, many housing societies arranged for services like delivery of fruits and vegetables from local farms, baked goods and dairy products on schedule for residents. Many societies continue to subscribe to the services even months after shops, supermarkets and malls have opened up. “During the lockdown, it was difficult for residents to go out to buy vegetables and fruits so we arranged for a local farm to bring over their produce. Residents were able to purchase their weekly requirements from them every Sunday. Though all local shops have reopened, we found that their produce was good and we have continued the weekly subscription to their business,” said Pratim Ghosh, a resident of NIBM Road. Sapna Vergese, a resident of Undri, added, “A local bakery was offering home delivery of a variety of freshly baked breads. We formed a WhatsApp group through which they post updates about the items available for order everyday and they would deliver it during the initial months of lockdown. Now, we have got used to ordering from the bakery.” While most businesses faced crippling losses during the lockdown, local vendors that offered delivery services to housing societies managed to connect with customers in such a way that the orders keep coming in. “Our sales increased during the lockdown as we were going to gated communities and offering our products. We are grateful that our customers remembered that when big supermarkets were closed, we were the ones helping them out. Our customer base has grown over 200%,” said Krishna Jalgaonkar, a vegetable supplier. Umar Khan, a meat vendor, said, “Although the shop was open, not many customers could come to buy chicken and mutton. So we started home delivery in April, which has picked up very well.Many societies still send us group orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/months-after-unlock-residents-still-opt-for-subscription-based-purchases/articleshow/79631700.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Trichy||‘Two leaves’ symbol on OP slips at Tamil Nadu govt hospital kicks up row||TRICHY: The outpatient slips issued at a government hospital in Pudukottai district with ‘two leaves’ symbol on its back created a row on Tuesday. The slips are used by doctors to write basic details of patients coming to the hospital. The hospital authorities withheld the slips after DMK functionaries created uproar over the incident. While dubbing it to be a coincidence, deputy director of health services (DDHS) Aranthangi Vijay Kumar has sought clarification from the doctors on the incident. A few patients who went to the government hospital at Malaiyur village near Karambakudi were taken aback after noticing the ‘two leaves’ symbol, the poll symbol of the ruling AIADMK, on the back of the slips. In a few slips, the symbol was mentioned as victory symbol seeking votes. Some of the patients approached the doctor raising the issue. The slips were procured from a nearby printing press after the primary health centre ran out of slips. But the hospital staff had failed to notice the symbol and issued it to the patients. The slips were in use for the last two days. DMK Pudukottai north district secretary K K Sellapandian said that doctors could have avoided the incident. Saying that the incident is very serious, he said a government hospital cannot campaign for a particular party by having its poll symbol on the outpatient slips. The slips with ‘two-leaves’ symbol were not outpatient slips, but drug slip used by doctors for internal audit purpose, Vijay Kumar said, adding that these slips went out of stock at the hospital and was obtained from a printing press. The printing press utilised unused pamphlets printed for the AIADMK during the local body polls last year. The press cut the pamphlets, which were printed on one side, for the purpose. Clarification was sought from the medical officer on the incident and the hospital employees were instructed to remain cautious, Vijay Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-leaves-symbol-on-op-slips-at-govt-hospital-kicks-up-row/articleshow/79633158.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolhapur||Will shun quota if caste system goes: Ramdas Athawale||KOLHAPUR: Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment Ramdas Athawale, while speaking at Kolhapur, said “We are ready to shun reservation, if the caste system is abolished.” He said the demand for reservation based just on economic standards is invalid since caste-based atrocities continues to take place. “There is a demand for a census of other backward categories (OBCs). I am going to demand a census for all the castes in the upcoming Census 2021. Right now, we do not have the data on the number of people of each caste in the country. I am going to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon in this regard,” said Athawale. “Some people are demanding the scrapping of caste-based reservation. We will give up the reservation if the caste system is abolished. We are against the reservation based on economic standards. The government has given 10% reservation, which is based on economic criteria. The Marathas too benefit from it. We support the Maratha reservation, but the reservations for the OBCs should not be tampered with. The demand of the Marathas is for separate reservation, and we support the demand,” added Athawale. Athawale criticised the Congress and NCP for their stand on the farmers’ bills. “Congress had promised a similar law in its manifesto. However, the party is now opposing it. NCP’s Sharad Pawar has always supported reforms in the APMC Act and the farmers' law passed by Parliament are on similar lines. The demand to withdraw the laws is not okay. Some changes can be made,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/will-shun-quota-if-caste-system-goes-athawale/articleshow/79633974.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bareilly||Artist brushes past detention, stirs up emotions in graffiti||Bareilly: Police stopped a sketch artist from joining the farmers’ protest in Moradabad and locked him in his house, like many political leaders in the region. The artist, Narendra Singh, then drew graffiti of ‘Bharat Bandh’ that showed how farmers and the general public were “paying a price” for protesting. Singh is the head of department of arts faculty in HM College in Moradabad. Talking to TOI, Narendra Singh, “We had planned to gather on the Collectorate premises in Moradabad in support of farmers under the banner of All India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Union, but most of us were locked in our locality. This government is not even giving opportunity to people to protest peacefully for their rights. Water cannons were shamelessly used (near the Delhi border) on our farmers during winter.” Singh further said, “The graffiti prepared by us for our farmers shows the current situation in the country, where the common man and farmers are being suppressed. The woman with a child and a national flag in hand (as depicted in the life-sized graffiti on a colony wall) is trying to bring in revolution. I am thankful to Dr.Ravish Kumar, Mukesh, Kulvinder and other artists for helping in drawing the painting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/artist-brushes-past-detention-stirs-up-emotions-in-graffiti/articleshow/79630533.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 9, 2020||Pune||In Pune rural, response has been strong||Pune: Officials from the Pune Zilla Parishad's health department said that they have identified nearly 21,000 healthcare workers (HCWs) from Pune rural, from an estimated total of 24,248, have signed up for priority vaccination. There are 14,887 HCWs employed at government enterprises, which includes anganwadi teachers and community health workers. Private sector units in these parts have another 9,371 workers - from which nearly 7,000 have signed up. Officials from the PCMC's health department said they have so far identified 12,222 HCWs from civic as well as private hospitals. But the officials said the number of registrations could increase to at least 25,000. However, there is some hesitation. Atul Desale, an associate professor of community medicine at the DY Patil Medical College Hospital and Research Centre in Pimpri, said he will wait for efficacy reports even after the vaccine rollout. “Unless we have 100% results on the success rate, I will continue to be doubtful about inoculating myself," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-pune-rural-response-has-been-strong/articleshow/79631708.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Trichy||Transgender booked for extortion||TRICHY: As the clash between two groups of transgender at the Central bus stand here continues to be a menace, the city police registered cases against both groups on Monday. The Cantonment crime police booked Mohana, Bhavasu, Susee and Keerthana and few unidentified men for threatening Rakshitha, 25, of Trichy, and demanding money from her. According to the complaint by Rakshitha, who is a member of the transgender community action network in Trichy, the group intimidated her when she was at the Central bus stand on December 6. Acting on the complaint, the Cantonment police registered an FIR but did not arrest them. Police also filed one more case against two transgender and few others based on the complaint from N Hasana Fatima, a transgender from Thiruverumbur. The Cantonment police booked Sunaina, Sayanika and few others for deliberately abusing the complainant and threatened her with dire consequences. The city police already took a critical view of the issue when a group of transgender demanded money from passengers near the bus stand on October 12. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/transgender-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/79633132.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Udgam seeks nod for in-person exams||AHMEDABAD: Udgam School for Children has sought permission from the education department to conduct pen-and-paper examinations for its secondary and higher secondary sections in January. In a letter from the school principal to the district education officer on December 5, permission has been sought to conduct in-person tests for interim exams that are scheduled to begin from January 4. While seeking permission to hold exams for students of Classes IX to XII, the school cited its experience of successfully holding tests for other students. It says the school is presently holding in-person exams for NEET and the ICAI’s CA foundation, intermediate and final examinations, on the government’s orders. All Covid-19 measures are properly followed — measuring body temperature, use of hand sanitizer, compulsory wearing of masks, limited presence of students in a classroom — while holding the exams. The letter further said, “By conducting these exam successfully while following all rules, we are now confident and have decided to hold the second term tests for Class IX and XI students and pre-board examinations for Class X and XII students. These tests are beginning from January 4.” A trustee of Udgam School, Manan Choksi, said, “The students are not serious in their examination, if conducted online. Therefore we plan to conduct in-person exams and have sought permission from the authorities.”The district education officer was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/udgam-seeks-nod-for-in-person-exams/articleshow/79631704.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ghaziabad woman alleges poisoning attempt||AHMEDABAD: A 27-year-old woman from Ghaziabad on Monday filed a complaint at Chandkheda police station alleging that her husband and mother-in-law poured mosquito repellent down her throat to kill her because she gave birth to a daughter. The woman, an MBA, stated that the incident took place on December 3, when she was doing domestic chores. “My mother-in-law instigated my husband saying that I do not finish the chores quickly, after which he began abusing and hitting me. When he was still beating me, my mother-in-law came into our bedroom and said they would not leave me alive. She then got mosquito repellent and my husband forced my mouth open and she poured the liquid in,” she stated in the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-alleges-poisoning-attempt/articleshow/79631714.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Chief electoral officer’s name goes missing from voters’ list||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief electoral officer Teekaram Meena, who is the election commission of India’s (ECI) representative in the state in charge of assembly and Lok Sabha elections, could not cast his vote in the local-body election as his name was not in the voters’ list. Meena, a senior IAS officer in the rank of additional chief secretary, is a resident of Millenium Apartments in Jagathy, in the capital, and a voter of Poojappura ward. The discrepancy came to light only on Monday and was relayed to him by Thiruvananthapuram collector Navjot Khosa. “It was only yesterday (Monday) that I was told that my name is not in the voters’ list. This happened because the state election commission decided to prepare a separate list for the local-body polls, without using the ECI list. This was despite all the political parties asking SEC to adopt the ECI list,” Meena told TOI. He said SEC was expected to use the ECI list, which was last updated for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Revision is ongoing for the upcoming assembly elections. “Names of several key officials, including the state chief secretary, are not in the list of the voters for the local-body election. We have instructed all district collectors to hold a special drive and update the list for including the names of public figures, senior officials, judges, etc, for the upcoming assembly elections,” Meena said. He said the matter will be taken up after the ongoing election. “There are lessons to be learnt,” Meena said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cecs-name-goes-missing-from-voters-list/articleshow/79631741.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Experts debate Covid-19's transmission through blood||PUNE: Can SARS-CoV-2 be transmitted through blood transfusion? A case from Pune has become central to the debate on this contentious route. The patient in the city, a man with a severe form of blood cancer, had received blood stem cells from his Covid-positive son in June. It has been just over six months, but he hasn't shown any signs of infection. Haematologist Sameer Melinkeri, associated with the patient’s treatment at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, said this was the first bone marrow transplant in the country from a donor confirmed as Covid-positive. The case also supports the argument that Covid may not be transmitted through blood. But experts said Covid transmission through blood transfusion cannot be completely ruled out. "It is possible there was nil or not enough virus in the bone marrow cells to cause infection," said virologist and former director of the National Institute of Virology, Deepak Gadkari. "The situation can be different when there is a requirement for a large quantity or multiple transfusions of blood and blood products." A similar case — from Thailand — was reported in the journal Bone Marrow Transplantation. A Covid-positive boy — in an emergency procedure — donated bone marrow to his seven-year-old sister who has thalassemia. The recipient girl has stayed negative for the pandemic virus. "But blood or bone marrow donation from Covid positive donors is not recommended," Gadkari said. The senior expert, in fact, called for mandatory testing for Covid-19. "We have experience with HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C viruses. Guidelines on mandatory SARC-CoV-2 testing of blood donors should come soon from regulatory bodies," he said. Christian Medical College (CMC) Vellore's haematologist Biju George was of a different view. He said, "In any healthy person who develops Covid-19, viral loads of SARS-CoV-2 in the throat and lungs are high during infection. But during this time, the virus is rarely detected in the blood and bone marrow." George also drew attention to anecdotal reports of apheresis platelets being transfused from an asymptomatic donor (who tested positive for Covid later) into a patient who urgently needed platelet transfusion. Apheresis is a medical procedure that involves removing whole blood from a donor or patient and separating it into individual components so that one particular component can be removed. The rest of the components are then re-introduced into the bloodstream of the patient or donor. "Follow-ups did not detect Covid-19 in the patient who received the platelet transfusion from a positive donor," George said. He, however, added that infected persons should never donate blood or bone marrow. "It is generally recommended that whenever possible, if a donor develops Covid-19 infection, the transplant is either deferred or an alternate donor is used," George said. But in emergency situations — just like the Pune case — and if the donor contracts Covid just before the transplant, the likelihood of the recipient developing active infection seems low, at least from published reports, he said. He added, “Antivirals may have a role (although not studied) in preventing Covid-19 in the recipient. The fact that the patient did not demonstrate any illness adds to the mounting pile of evidence that this virus may not be transmitting through blood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-debate-covid-19s-transmission-through-blood/articleshow/79631722.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 9, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Tropical fruit garden attracts people, birds alike||KOCHI: At first glance, the fruit orchard could look like any other with huge trees lining not just the periphery but all over the one-acre plot on the banks of river Periyar. But as we get closer, we realise that the trees don’t look local. They are mostly very tall, with huge leaves and many fruits growing off the branches. Horticulturist Sreekumar Menon, a resident of Manjapetty near Aluva has an exotic garden (Veliyath gardens) of fruit trees from tropical countries across the world. He has no count of it but the varieties could be anywhere near 500, says Sreekumar. “The passion for horticulture began almost a decade ago when I was working in the Gulf. I used to travel to countries as part of work and that’s when the idea of having my own little cultivation began,” he says. Sreekumar bought one acre near the banks of river Periyar which includes his house and there he began planting saplings. He has fruit trees from the Amazon, Africa, South America and southeast Asian countries. “These trees flower and bear fruits after monsoon. Our garden is full of different types of fruits in Jan-Feb. They are seasonal, though there are some trees which bear fruits in every season, except in rainy months.” Sreekumar seeks help from the agriculture department, testing the soil and following their instructions keep soil healthy. Thanks to two cows, he has no shortage of organic manure. The collection of fruits has attracted a lot of buyers looking for exotic tree saplings. “I don’t have the quantity to sell the fruit. Moreover, each one bears fruits at different times. So, I use grafting methods to make saplings and sell them. There’s a lot of interest among people not just to buy but also come and watch. We put our videos on Facebook when the trees start bearing fruits. People ask us if they can come and see the fruits,” he says. Does he face pest problems? “Not much. Occasionally, we have a small-level issues which can be addressed. One of the interesting facts is that birds fly in to try the fruits. “But they are very cautious. They hover around and since the fruits don’t look familiar, they don’t peck at it. Only after several days, do they actually venture to try it out. Even they seem to have a natural instinct of trying out unknown foods!” he says. Some of the fruits include Cherry of Rio Grande (Brazil), Candlenut (Indonesia), Jaboticaba (Brazil), Surinam cherry black (Surinam), White and green sapote (Mexico), Pakistan Mulberry (Pakistan), Jamaican Star apple (Jamaica), Cocoplum (US), White pineapple (south America), Miracle berry (West Africa), Burmese grapes (Burma), Governor’s plum (Madagascar), Geripa (Caribbean), Ongo fruit (Africa), etc, to name a few. Bor Therkara (Myanmar) is one of the largest fruits in the garden while Matoa from Indonesia is the fastest-growing fruit. Ilama fruit from Vietnam looks like Ramphal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tropical-fruit-garden-attracts-people-birds-alike/articleshow/79630560.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata stays open but weekday rush missing||KOLKATA: The city on Tuesday functioned normally amidst stray protests in certain pockets but there was a sharp dip in number of public transport as well as commuters on the road during the nation-wide strike called by farmers to protest against Centre’s farm laws. Their demands were supported by the ruling Trinamool Congress as well as the Left parties and Congress in Bengal. Since morning, buses and taxis were fewer than those operated during the November 26 strike call. Private bus operators said several bus drivers did not join duty, forcing them to limit services. Airport services were not hit but Metro saw lesser footfall than usual days. Till 4pm, ridership on the north-south line was around 46,000 against Monday’s 60,000-plus. By the end of the day, the passenger count was somewhere around 85,000 to 90,000 while Monday’s footfall was 1.2 lakh. However, fewer vehicles also meant reduced travel time. “I reached my office in almost half the time taken on Monday. The buses were near empty too,” said Tanima Mondal, a regular commuter between Behala and Beckbagan. Attendance at government offices also dipped as the state finance department, which usually issues a circular of service break in case of absence on a strike day before every such agitation, had refrained from issuing any such circular this time. IT sector at Sector V and New Town reported usual turnout like any other Covid days. In Kolkata, traffic at Esplanade was halted for several times as agitators from multiple parties blocked the crossing in phases but none of the protests was violent. At Moulali, Congress supporters burnt a tyre and tried to forcibly shut down a petrol pump before cops came in. Several city markets remained shut through the day. The wholesale markets in Posta and Burrabazar were also shut. The markets for apparels, toys and dry fruits in and around Kalakar Street and book shops at College Street kept their shutters down as well. “We stand by the farmers. Indirectly, we owe our livelihood to them,” said Dipankar Ghosh, general secretary of the Posta Bazar Mazdoor Welfare Organization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-stays-open-but-weekday-rush-missing/articleshow/79631736.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Suspended loco pilot takes a ‘honey-laced’ dig at his boss||NAGPUR: A senior loco pilot with the Nagpur division of South East Central Railway (SECR), who was suspended allegedly for daring to raise Covid-related safety issues with the senior officials, has offered raw honey to his boss as a gift to boost immunity in the fight against coronavirus. The sarcastic letter was written by mail/express loco pilot KC Pradhan on November 6 to his boss, senior divisional electrical engineer (SrDEE) for operations Kunal Kapoor, who suspended him effective from October 30, by issuing a suspension letter on November 2. Though no reasons have been specified for Pradhan’s suspension, the loco pilot, who has completed 30 years of accident-free service, has written in his letter that he will be “happy to be kept under suspension till retirement”. Pradhan confirmed to have written the letter, which went viral on social media, on November 6. Pradhan suspects the action is for raising his voice against lack of preventive measures by the railways during Covid-19 by sanitizing loco cabs at each crew changing point and various touchpoints. He thinks his suspension may be due to a 17 minute-delay to Vidarbha Express at Nagpur, during his last trip to Gondia. “Suspension is not new to me and on several occasions, officials have even sent GRP and RPF personnel to arrest me on duty, but I was found clean every time. This is an attempt to remove employees who have completed over 30 years of service by falsely implicating them,” the loco pilot added. Alleging unsafe practices at the workplace, Pradhan has survived coronavirus and was isolating from September 1 to 14. Due to negligence by railway doctors at SECR’s polyclinic, he said, the virus affected his family members and landlord. “You may not care for my health during the Covid-19 pandemic but I’m concerned about you and hence want to gift you raw honey to boost your immunity,” said Pradhan’s letter to Kapoor. Kapoor refused to talk to TOI. Senior divisional commercial manager (SrDCM) Vikas Kashyap confirmed Pradhan has been suspended. “I don’t know the reasons behind it. It is an inter-departmental confidential matter. I’m here to tell positive developments.” Pradhan alleged senior officials have not come out of the British era mentality and there was no democracy in the system. “Loco pilots are not allowed to perform according to what they learn during training. They are being treated like whipping horses to score brownie points,” he said. Raising safety issues, Pradhan said, “I’ve demanded powerful headlights for the locos which can cover visibility up to 750 metres during the night. Presently, the visibility is 150-200 metres only, which is dangerous. When the train moves at 110 kmph it is difficult to judge impediments on the track.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/suspended-for-raising-covid-concerns-loco-pilot-wants-to-gift-honey-to-boss/articleshow/79631739.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Booths, ID cards part of vaccination drive||BENGALURU: Vaccination booths — like polling stations during elections — will be set up for conducting the drive against Covid and people must produce a government-recognized identity proof before getting the shot. WHO-India’s sub-regional team leader (Karnataka) Dr Lokesh Alahari said Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) software, developed by IIT-Delhi, will be used for monitoring vaccine delivery to prioritized sections of the population. He was speaking at a webinar on ‘Covid-19 Vaccine Safety and Efficacy’ on Tuesday. Every person getting shots will be enrolled in government data and tracked for adverse effects, if any, Alahari said. ‘Duration of protection by vaccine unknown’The software tracks the temperature at which the vaccine is stored at primary health centres. The management and reporting of the adverse events following immunisation are “equally important”, said Dr Alahari. He said a person undergoing Covid vaccination will get a certificate, and reminders about the next schedule. Dr Shashibhushan BL, professor and head, department of pulmonary medicine, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, said it was important for vaccine developers to present all safety data. “It is likely that vaccination will be associated with mild adverse events like soreness at the injection site, fever, fatigue, and myalgia (body pain). More serious reactions, such as otherwise-unexplained neurological or inflammatory processes, would raise concerns,” he said. Experts said no vaccine is 100% effective. “A vaccine that protects one from clinical illness may not prevent its transmission to others. In Covid, duration of naturally occurring immunity to infection is unknown; it may wane with time. Hence, the likely duration of protection by the new Covid vaccine is unknown,” said Dr Shashibhushan. Mask usage, hand sanitisation and physical distancing must be maintained for some more months, he added. Two doses of the same Covid vaccine (and not of different makers) will be required for a person. Depending on how many times the body is exposed to the virus or vaccinated, the body can generate two types of immune responses, Dr Shashibhushan said. “The primary immune response is generated when exposed to the virus for the first time or when the first dose of vaccination is given. But the primary immune response takes days to generate antibodies and immune response system (through T cells),” he added. The secondary response is stronger and quicker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/booths-id-cards-part-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/79634675.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Council passes bill that eases buying farmland||BENGALURU: Amid nationwide farmers’ protest, the Karnataka legislative council on Tuesday passed amendments to the land reforms act that do away with most restrictions on buying farmland. The BJP government, which faced embarrassment by failing to get the bill passed in the previous session and had to reissue an ordinance, achieved its objective this time with ready help from JD(S). The Karnataka Land Reforms (2nd Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed with a voice vote after the Congress opposed it. Land reforms: JD(S) votes made the differenceThe Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, replaces an ordinance brought in by the government in July. The Act repeals Section 79(A) that sets a limit of nonagricultural income at Rs 25 lakh to buy agricultural land, Section 79(B) that bars non-agriculturists from purchasing agricultural lands, and Section 79 (C) that deals with penalty for falsely claiming eligibility to hold agricultural land. The bill was put to vote on Congress’s request. Amendments were passed 37-21. All 10 JD(S) votes made the difference; nine Congress members were absent. “We did not have enough numbers to stall the bill. Yet, we demanded a voice vote to expose JD(S), whose leaders call themselves ‘sons of the soil’ and claim theirs is the only party that fights for farmers,” said opposition leader SR Patil. During the debate, the Congress termed the bill a death knell for farmers as it feared corporates will buy large parcels of farmland. “Once the income cap is removed, we will see rich people entering Karnataka and buying farmlands. This will push back the state into bonded labour,” said Basavaraj Itagi. Revenue minister R Ashoka, who moved the bill, said it will remove corruption by lower-rung government officials and unnecessary court cases against innocent people who want to till only their land. “Our intent is to safeguard farmers’ interest and encourage youngsters to enter the farming sector. There is no hidden agenda here,” he added. CM BS Yediyurappa said the government will ensure there is no change in land-use pattern in places which see high irrigation work. “Also, we won’t change the status of SC/ ST land. These days, farmers are well informed to know what’s good and bad for them. Our intent is not to create roadblocks for the farmers, but to ease their lives and livelihood,” said Yediyurappa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/council-passes-bill-that-eases-buying-farmland/articleshow/79634676.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Visually challenged girl, 12, gets back her vision, thanks to collector||THANJAVUR: A 12-year-old visually challenged girl from Thanjavur district has thanked the district collector who took all his efforts to get back her vision. After knowing the plight of the girl through social media, the collector sanctioned Rs 50,000 from the collector’s discretionary fund for the Class VII girl. P Karthika, a native of Sithukkadu near Pattukottai, has been residing with her grandmother Sundarambal and elder brother P Kalidasan after her mother P Amutha died of some ailment two months ago. Her father died of snakebite five years ago. As Sundarambal is the only breadwinner of the family, she struggled to feed Kalidasan and the girl with poor vision. Both of them are studying at a government high school in the village. The girl was struggling to study with no vision in the left eye and 40% vision in the right eye. Despite all odds, the girl managed to continue her studies well with the help of her brother. Upon knowing about the girl’s plight, district collector M Govinda Rao instructed Pattukottai tahsildar S Tharanika to visit her house and inquire about her. Based on the official’s report, collector arranged for an eye check-up. Doctors expressed hope of reviving her vision. As per the collector’s instruction, doctors performed a surgery on her left eye on November 11, said Tharanika. “Doctors also expressed hope of retrieving vision in both eyes by taking the treatment into the next level. Collector has instructed to do the needful to the girl’s family to sanction a house under the PMAY scheme and we are working for that,” she added. “We had facilitated her eye treatment at Government Raja Mirasdar Hospital in Thanjavur by Dr Gnanaselvam and team and she got her vision. I sanctioned Rs 50,000 for her education from collector’s discretionary fund. We are coordinating to sanction for a government house for her family and trying to tie up with a sponsor to facilitate her future education needs,” collector told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/visually-challenged-girl-12-gets-back-her-vision-thanks-to-collector/articleshow/79633215.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 9, 2020||Kochi||CSML projects in Kochi to generate 1MW soon||KOCHI: Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is all set to complete the work on rooftop solar plant project in Kochi by the month-end. Once these grid-connected solar plants installed on roofs of government offices, schools and hospitals in the city are commissioned, it will generate a total of 1megawatt (MW) electricity. This would provide electricity to the host buildings and generate revenue through the sale of the additional electricity produced. Solar plants were installed on the rooftops of 28 government buildings within Kochi corporation limits. “A total of 1.5 million units of green energy can be generated in a year through the project. Government establishments will save electricity bills by about Rs 1 crore a year, besides reducing carbon footprint by 1,000 tonne. This is equivalent to planting 5,400 trees. 1mega watt (1,000kW) roof top solar power project installed by CSML is also an excellent example of how a city can generate renewable energy,” said an official associated with the project. Rooftop solar project was conceived with the intention of using renewable energy as a major energy source of the city which is in line with the government policy and guidelines. “Of the total 28 plants, 16 have already been connected to Integrated Command and Control Communication Centre (IC4) at Kaloor. This will facilitate smart use and metering of power. Data entry prior to providing connectivity of 10 more plants to IC4 is fast progressing. All 28 plants can be commissioned by the end of the month,” sources said. Average energy production per day over a one-year period is expected to be 4,000 units from the 1000KW installation, officials said. “Largest capacity of solar plant in one building in our project is at Town Hall, Ernakulam. The average per-day production for the Town Hall plant is expected to be 320 units and the monthly production to be 9,600 units, provided the climatic conditions are favourable. The additional energy produced by the plant beyond the building usage can be exported to the grid and the excess energy can be wheeled to other buildings of corporation so that there will be a saving in the overall expenses incurred by the corporation,” sources said. It is learnt that CSML authorities are exploring possibilities of extending the rooftop solar plant project to more areas in the city. A final decision in this regard will be taken after assesing the success of the installed plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csml-projects-to-generate-1mw-soon/articleshow/79630603.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
December 9, 2020||India||Top court stays contempt case against Maharashtra Governor Koshyari||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed contempt proceedings against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, which was initiated by the Uttarakhand high court for his alleged failure to pay market rent for a government bungalow allotted to him as a former chief minister. Agreeing to hear an appeal filed by the Governor, a three-judge bench headed by Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman stayed the proceedings and issued notice to the state. The HC had issued notice to the Governor as the SC had ruled that former CMs were not entitled to official bungalow and directed the states to get such premises vacated and recover market rent. An amount of over Rs 47 lakh was raised against Koshyari for using government premises in Dehradun from 2003 to 2016. The HC had directed four former CMs to pay the market rate for the government services they availed after leaving the CM’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/top-court-stays-contempt-case-against-maharashtra-governor-koshyari/articleshow/79634668.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Trichy||‘Desilting helped groundwater table improve’||Pudukottai: District collector P Uma Maheswari on Tuesday said that effective water management through kudimaramathu scheme had improved ground water table by 1.4m. She said that widespread rain over the last few weeks was expected to further increase the ground water level. The kudimaramathu work had facilitated rain water to flow seamlessly to the water bodies, she added. Maheswari was in Thirumayam for inspecting places that were covered under the scheme. In the current year, kudimaramathu works were carried out to the tune of Rs 45 crore, which includes desilting of 43 big tanks, 259km-long canals and 650 small tanks. She said that desilting work under kudimaramathu had helped improve water retaining capacity of the tanks. Out of the 43 tanks desilted in the district, 8 tanks have reached its full capacity. The scheme had ensured that farmers benefit the most by being able to fulfil their water requirements for irrigation, Maheswari said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/desilting-helped-groundwater-table-improve/articleshow/79633253.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bareilly||Farmers block NH-2, Yamuna e-way in Mathura, Aligarh-Palwal road in Aligarh||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Farmers from western Uttar Pradesh (UP) blocked all the major highways leading to Delhi, including Yamuna Expressway, National Highway-2 in Mathura and the Aligarh-Palwal road in Aligarh, on Tuesday in response to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. While most commuters remained off the road, the protesters did allow all emergency services to operate as usual. Several districts, including Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli and Bijnor, witnessed heavy police and paramilitary deployment in several pockets, especially entry points to the cities and major crossings on the highways. In Meerut, several companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) were deployed in Jitauli in Kankerkhera area where farmers led by Bhartiya Kisan union (BKU) held a peaceful protest. Sensitive areas in the city were kept under drone vigil and patrolling was done by senior police officials, including ADG (zone) Rajiv Sabharwal. Police detained several Congress and Samajwadi Party workers in Mathura, Aligarh, Bareilly, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and other parts of the region while some farmer leaders were put under house arrest in Agra to maintain law and order situation in the town. In Mathura, former Congress legislative party leader Pradeep Mathur along with several party workers and RLD leader Kunwar Narendra Singh was detained. In Aligarh, former MP Bijendra Singh, former MLAs Zamirullah Khan, and Zafar Aalam, and SP’s former city president Ajju Ishaq were detained. In Pilibhit, a huge assembly of farmers associated with different farmer unions blocked Pilibhit-Basti national highway 730 near Gajraula and at Sirsa crossing under Puranpur kotwali police station. The jam lasted for over four hours. The lawyers kept their legal work suspended or the day. The BKU’s Aligarh unit president, Anil Pandit, said, “We have been sitting in Delhi for the past 8 days against the three recently enacted farm laws. We want them repealed.” He said that a chakka jam was staged on the Aligarh-Palwal road but emergency vehicles were allowed. Talking to TOI, Agra SP (city) Botre Rohan Pramod said that few farmer leaders had been placed under house arrest and were later released. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said a total of 141 people from various political parties were detained but later released. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni said, "We had held talks with trade associations in advance and all markets and shops were open and operating freely. Some 13-14 miscreants were arrested and sent to jail. Some farmer unions held a symbolic protest.” Meanwhile, shops were open in most parts of the region and the bandh showed a mixed response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-block-nh-2-yamuna-e-way-in-mathura-aligarh-palwal-road-in-aligarh/articleshow/79630597.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Cops stress on permanent cycle network via bylanes||Kolkata: Police have refused to give in to demand by cyclists’ groups and unequivocally stated that the ban on cycles on major city roads will not be lifted. However, it has agreed to look for alternative routes for cyclists to travel across the city, using lanes and bylanes. To begin with, traffic cops have been asked not to levy fines and instead nudge cyclists off the main roads and encourage them to use the network of alleys to reach their destination. Police claimed a few crossings had also been identified as points for cycles travelling from one part of the city to another to cross over. At Jorabagan traffic guard, an alternative link parallel to BK Pal Avenue has been finalized. At Beliaghata Road, cyclists are being rerouted through Tangra and Canal South Road. The idea, claimed Lalbazar, was to popularize the alternative routes among cyclists so that they can use them now and turn them into a greater cycle network. “We are neither anti-cycle nor are we immune to the challenges of various forms of pollution. It is just that the main roads are not in a position to support cycles under the given infrastructure,” said a police officer in response to criticism that the police were undoing the good things that had been discovered during the lockdown. Vinay Jaju, co-founder of SwitchOn and a leading cycle enthusiast, welcomed the decision to set up a cycle network but said it needed to be adequate and futuristic and not a stop-gap effort. “It must be done in consultation with all stakeholders. Kolkata must move away from car-centric development and put cycles at the centre of its mobility plan,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-stress-on-permanent-cycle-network-via-bylanes/articleshow/79631766.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Bharat Bandh, Delhi open||NEW DELHI: The Bharat bandh called by farmers on Tuesday against the central government’s new farm laws didn’t elicit much response in the capital though the borders of Delhi have been the epicentre of the protest for a fortnight now. Even though markets and offices remained opened and there was no problem in the availability of either public transport, app-based cabs or autorickshaws, Delhiites and those from neighbouring areas who work in Delhi preferred to be cautious on Tuesday keeping in mind the recent experiences of choked border points and traffic snarls due to the farmers’ protest. The bandh was peaceful and turned out more symbolic, just as the decision of market associations to keep shops open didn’t matter much as customers preferred to keep away. Connaught Place appeared desolate and there were few visitors at its stores and restaurants. The buzz was also missing from the high-rise office buildings in the central business district though offices were open. There were fewer customers in many other markets as well. “It usually takes me more than one hour to reach my office in Green Park, but today I drove the distance in less than 40 minutes because the roads were deserted,” said Abhilash Sharma, a resident of Vaishali in Ghaziabad. “Many colleagues, however, preferred to work from home today as they feared traffic snarls or overcrowding in the Delhi Metro.” The arterial roads of Delhi witnessed very thin traffic even in the peak hours. Even the perennially congested ITO intersection had very few vehicles on Tuesday morning. Similarly, India Gate and Mandi House roundabouts too had thin traffic. There was a heavy presence of security personnel at not only the border points but also across the city. At many points, random searches of vehicles were carried out. Satish Golcha, special commissioner of police (Law and Order), Central Range, said, “The situation in Delhi was peaceful and under control. The markets were open and there was normal movement of people as well as traffic.” Some farmers blocked the Delhi-Meerut Expressway near Ghazipur border. After around three hours, they moved to the other carriageway where they had already been sitting on protest so as not to impede movement of commuters. There was heavy police deployment at DND, but the farmers did not venture there, leaving the traffic peaceful and smooth. There was a protest at ITO near the flyover by Congress functionaries in support of the bandh. Members of the Aam Aadmi Party also raised slogans outside the party office, but the protests went off peacefully and Delhi Police ensured that nearby traffic movement was not affected. Two separate cases were, however, registered for Covid regulations violation, one against Congress activists and the other against AAP workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bharat-bandh-delhi-open/articleshow/79633248.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 9, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||At 69.7%, Thiruvananthapuram sees drop in voter turnout||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The city corporation recorded a poor voter turnout compared to rural areas. The polling percentage in the corporation stood at 59.73%. This was 62.9% in 2015. The block panchayats, grama panchayats, municipalities and district panchayat, however, recorded an impressive turnout. The polling percentage was 72% in municipalities and 74.4% in panchayats. The district total came in at 69.72%. In 2015, 76.22% of voters had cast their ballots in panchayats and 76.47% in municipalities – for a district-wide total of 71.9%. Among the municipalities, Neyyattinkara recorded the highest polling percentage of 74.71%, followed by Nedumanagdu (72.90%), Attingal (69.36%) and Varkala (71.23%). Union minister of state V Muraleedharan, Suresh Gopi MP, state devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran and CPM politburo members M A Baby and S Ramachandran Pillai, Congress MPs Shashi Tharoor and K Muraleedharan were among the prominent leaders who cast their votes in the district. A notable absentee was senior Congress leader A K Antony. The low turnout is a major concern for CPM, BJP and Congress, which are locked in a fierce triangular contest for control of the corporation. Surendran said CPM will retain power and BJP will not even hold the seats it won last time. BJP leaders, however, are confident of overthrowing the CPM. “The BJP will put up an impressive show in the city corporation. Every time it has been close to wresting power, but this time we will seal the deal,’’ said Suresh Gopi. The Congress is counting on anti-incumbency to see it through. “We will sweep the corporation. People’s frustrations with the LDF government will be a major factor here,’’ said Neyyattinkara Sanal, district Congress committee president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/at-69-7-tpuram-sees-drop-in-voter-turnout/articleshow/79631777.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Work to prepare database of 50+ begins tomorrow||AHMEDABAD: The state health & family welfare department on Tuesday issued a notification, asking the district collectors, district development officers (DDOs) and municipal commissioners to prepare a list of citizens above 50 years, and those below 50 years but having co-morbidities. The list is prepared to plan the Covid-19 vaccine schedule, mentioned the notification. The database will be prepared according to the Government of India guidelines, said health department officials. The notification signed by Jai Prakash Shivahare, state health commissioner, mentioned that the data collection should be done in a manner of booth-wise data collection of voters during election. The data collection will be in the same format. “The teams will carry out door-to-door survey from December 10 and complete it on December 13. The list must have details of citizens above 50 years as on January 1, 2021, and those below 50 years but having co-morbidities,” said an official. “The co-morbidities include cancer, organ transplant, ailments related to kidney and heart, thalassemia, anemia, HIV and mental illnesses.” From December 14 to 16, the analysis of the data will be carried out, as the teams will be trained for the data collection on December 9. The process must be completed by December 17, mentioned the notification. Sources close to the development said that the rollout of vaccine could be earlier than expected if the trials are successful and if any of the vaccines get central nod. In the city, one of the clinical trials has already been initiated where over 200 volunteers have enrolled so far. Recently, the state government had announced that they had completed the review of vaccine storage and supply network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/work-to-prepare-database-of-50-begins-tomorrow/articleshow/79631785.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Admission last lap: Seats in some courses still vacant||Kolkata: The “exclusive” round of admissions that the colleges had started did not yield satisfactory results. There are still vacancies available in several courses, including philosophy, Sanskrit, physics and chemistry, among others, in many colleges while there are many takers for subjects like microbiology, mathematics, computer science, history, sociology and English. “There are subjects in which there is a genuine lack of interest,” said a college head. Another reason for candidates to avoid studying some of the subjects is the lack of scope. To find jobs, it is beneficial to study those courses that will offer them placement opportunities or at least a shot at finding a teaching job,” added the principal. He explained: “Students no longer follow the crowd and select subjects that will not yield the desired result. Instead, they plan to study professional courses if they have failed to find seats in a subject of their choice and in their preferred institution.” Several CU colleges has closed the process and invited students from the existing merit list who till now did not find a seat in an institute or stream of their choice to send their request for admissions and thus fill up the vacancies. But, for those candidates who have taken admissions and yet not followed up with the college, have been given a strong reminder that if they do not respond, their seats will be deemed vacant. “After asking students to give us their wishlist, there were many who wanted to take up subjects like physics, history and geography, among others. Yet, after reducing the number of seats this year in some of the less popular subjects, we still have vacancies in Sanskrit and philosophy, among a few others,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar. At City College (North), an admission official pointed out that even economics has very fewer takers. “It is mostly because it is extremely difficult to score in the subject,” said the teacher. He added that even the scope of jobs through the School Service Commission by studying economics is also shrinking. CU has already extended the last date for registration up to the end of December while the admission process for the first-semester undergraduate programmes will have to be completed within December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/admission-last-lap-seats-in-some-courses-still-vacant/articleshow/79631787.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Smooth sailing in Metro & buses for commuters in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The availability of public transport, apart from app-based cabs and autos, remained unaffected by Bharat bandh on Tuesday. Though many taxi and auto unions, who supported the bandh, claimed many of these vehicles remained off road, commuters didn’t face any problem. Delhi Metro remained the preferred mode of transport for a large number of Delhi-NCR residents as many didn’t want to take out their personal vehicles on a bandh day. The Metro services were available as usual on all corridors, except on Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station on Green Line (Inderlok-Bahadurgarh) near Tikri border where farmers are protesting. “I usually drive to work but due to the bandh, I didn’t want to take a chance. All my colleagues, except one, travelled by the Metro today,” said Deepak Singh, a resident of Sector 76, Noida. Most of the 6,601 buses of the combined DTC and Cluster Scheme fleet were also deployed but the occupancy was unexpectedly low, particularly after 11am when the bandh came into effect. DTC, however, has not been operating any interstate bus since the farmers’ protests have begun at border points. Though Sarvodaya Drivers Association of Delhi, which represents drivers of app-based cabs, had said their members would not ply vehicles on Tuesday, enough cabs were available in Delhi and at lower-than-usual fare in most areas. “I had to reach my office in ITO and when I booked a cab, the wait time was the usual five minutes. Though I left a little late today, the fare was lower even for off-peak hours,” said Shivangi Mehra, a Janakpuri resident. Even if a section of autos remained off road, the absence wasn’t felt. Busy areas like ITO, Connaught Place and INA Market were teeming with a large number of autos, waiting for elusive passengers. “Work has gone down sharply since the Covid-19 outbreak and I can’t afford to sit at home, even if unions call for a strike,” said Rajesh Pal, a driver at a desolate Connaught Place.“I take this auto on rent for one shift and have to pay the rent and save something to feed my family too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/smooth-sailing-in-metro-buses-for-commuters/articleshow/79633277.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ACB summons doctor for voice test, he evades it||AHMEDABAD: A doctor running a private hospital in Bhhuyangdev, Dr Naresh Malhotra, who was booked for demanding a bribe on behalf of a civic officer to get bills worth approximately Rs 1.50 crore of CIMS hospital passed, had been summoned by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Monday for a voice spectrograph test. However, Malhotra skipped it saying he could not appear as he has been managing a designated Covid-19 hospital. ACB officials said according to the memorandum of understanding (MoU) between CIMS Hospital and Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), bills for treatment of Covid-19 patients referred by the government must be sent to the AMC’s health department for clearance. According to ACB officials, the complainant, whose name has been withheld, alleged that Malhotra asked for a 10% commission to get the bills passed, allegedly on behalf of deputy municipal health officer Dr Arvind Patel. “As the complainant did not want to pay the commission, he lodged a complaint with the ACB and submitted an audio recording, allegedly of Malhotra demanding the commission on behalf of Arvind Patel,” said an ACB official. After filing a case of corruption, Malhotra was summoned on Monday to give his voice samples for a voice spectrograph test. “He wrote back saying he would not be able to appear on Monday as he has been managing a Covid-19 designated hospital where 27 patients are being treated. He says if he leaves the hospital the patients lives could be at risk. He has sought time which we have given at this moment on humanitarian grounds,” said an ACB officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/acb-summons-doctor-for-voice-test-he-evades-it/articleshow/79631783.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farmers find strength in numbers, hope their protest will reap result||NEW DELHI: At Singhu border, the epicentre of the farmers’ protests, thousands poured in over the last 24 to 48 hours, and the crowd was visibly larger on Tuesday, the day of the Bharat bandh. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan arrived, buoyed by the big support they have been getting from different sections. As they crowded the main stage at Singhu border on Tuesday, the mood was celebratory, and the farmers were determined not to budge until the central government met their demands. Maninder Singh, who came from Patiala, claimed the number of protestors had gone up by a third in the past 24 hours. “Those who had gone home also returned and have brought back more people. Obviously, many farmers stayed back in their own states to ensure the success of the Bharat bandh locally. We hope there is a positive impact of this bandh,” said Maninder. Maan Singh of Ferozepur has been at the border for a week now. Pointing out how more people from his village had reached Singhu in the last couple of days, Maan Singh said, “Each day the protest grows stronger. One would presume the people would begin tiring and head back to their villages, but the opposite has been happening, more people are arriving.” Pargat Singh from Sirsa in Haryana said big troupes had arrived from Rajasthan. “They have only recently finished harvesting and have started coming in large numbers. People from different states are all supporting the bandh,” Pargat claimed. Indeed, one could see fresh groups negotiating their way past the maze of tractor-trolleys lined up on several kilometres on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway, stopping at tents providing free langar and other essentials. Harvinder Singh Brar, a volunteer at one of the langar tents, confided there was enough food supplies to last the protestors a month. Rishpal Singh Tomar, who arrived from Ludhiana, said he was hopeful the nationwide strike would benefit them. “Shopkeepers and unions of all sorts have helped us make the bandh successful. We hope the government senses the mood of the nation,” Tomar added. Most shops in the vicinity of the protest site remained shut and even the temporary stalls that had cropped up were missing on Tuesday. Some, however, cashed in to make a quick profit. Prince Kumar Arora, 20, who has been selling slippers to the demonstrators, made a profit of Rs 1,000 during the day. “We do want to support the farmers, but since so many of them are here, I want to sell them things they need,” said Arora wryly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-find-strength-in-numbers-hope-their-protest-will-reap-result/articleshow/79631822.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
December 9, 2020||Trichy||Dam pumping scheme: Govt nod for study||Trichy: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has sanctioned Rs 40 lakh to conduct a feasibility study to execute the Mayanur-Kannuthu dam pumping scheme. “Around 3,000 acres of agriculture land will get irrigation water in and around the reservoirs, once the project would be completed,” Trichy collector S Sivarasu said on Tuesday. “The main aim of the scheme is to use the surplus floodwater from Mayanur barrage built across the Cauvery river in Karur district to fill up Ponnaniyar and Kannuthu dams. The scheme would also help harness rainwater draining into the sea. This would also help to recharge the groundwater table,” PWD officials said. Ponnaniyar dam is located at Pooncholai village on the foothills of Semmalai in Kadavur in Karur district. Though the ayacut is in Mugavanur panchayat and surrounding villages in Trichy district, the catchment area of the dam is located in Karur district, they added. The dam, built in 1974 with a storage capacity of 120 million cubic feet, has rainwater flowing from Kadavur region as its main water source. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dam-pumping-scheme-govt-nod-for-study/articleshow/79633296.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: No new taxes likely in budget||AHMEDABAD: The AMC is in a quandary over the 2021-22 budget. Though the financial condition of the corporation is shaky, it is unlikely that the budget will be increased. Officials said that if local body elections are held by January-end or in February, the ruling BJP in the state will not want to impose any new taxes in the AMC budget. The officials said that since Covid has hit the AMC’s finances, the corporation may not suggest big-ticket projects for the next financial year. To make up for falling revenues, the AMC had decided to put on hold projects worth Rs 1,200 crore. Also, the officials said that the shortfall in taxes was just 14% and hence it might not severely impact the budget. The officials said that due to Covid, grants from the central and state governments have been delayed, disrupting the plans for the current year. The officials said that they do not expect much revenue even in the next financial year and hence the budget might cover only those projects that directly affect the people. These may include road resurfacing, drainage, drinking water, and bridge-building works. The officials said that allocations will be stalled for the renovation of community halls and gardens. When asked how the AMC intends to take up these projects, the officials said that the corporation has already got the approval for a Rs 1,200 crore loan from the World Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-new-taxes-likely-in-budget/articleshow/79631796.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Order to cancel 50 sawmill licences challenged in HC||Nagpur: The order of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) regional office cancelling additional horizontal band saw (AHBS) licences to 50 sawmills has been challenged in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court. The HC has issued notices to all respondents. Acting on a petition filed by environmental lawyer Manish Jeswani, the MoEFCC had, on October 30, 2020, ordered to permanently cancel these licences. The licences were granted by the state-level committee (SLC) ignoring Supreme Court orders in the matter. Proprietor of SN Timber Mart in Chandrapur, SS Buggawar, and 44 others have filed a writ petition in the high court against the cancellation order. The petitioner claimed that the appeal was preferred beyond the time by the MoEFCC and without filing an application for condonation of delay and principles of natural justice were not followed. The petitioner said they are going to be affected by any decision taken on the appeal and that is why they need to be heard by the MoEFCC. The apex court ruling of October 5, 2015, allows MoEFCC to condone the delay in filing appeal, if sufficient cause is made out by the applicants or appellants. “Any person aggrieved by the decision taken by the SLC may file an appeal before the MoEFCC seeking appropriate relief within 60 days. If for any reason, any person is aggrieved by the orders so passed in the appeal, he may prefer an appropriate petition or appeal before the appropriate forum for grant of relief. We also permit the MoEFCC to condone the delay, if any, in filing an appeal,” the Supreme Court had said. As reported by TOI earlier, Jeswani, who is one of the respondents, had made a request to the MoEFCC for condonation of delay through his petition which was accepted, and a hearing was held in presence of all the parties on October 27, 2020, before passing the said order on October 30. Moreover, president of Maharashtra Timber Laghu Udyog Mahasangh, who was representing sawmill licensees, was consciously present in 16th SLC meeting where a draft of a reply to be filed before the MoEFCC was approved. Despite having knowledge of the appeal, the licensees didn’t come forward to intervene. The regional office of the MoEFCC had mentioned in its order that the chairman of SLC exceeded his jurisdiction as it violated the apex court order of March 4, 1997, by granting 50 AHBS licences without assessment of timber availability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/order-to-cancel-50-sawmill-licences-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/79631790.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Police didn’t allow anyone to enter Delhi CM’s house, alleges AAP||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was placed under “house arrest” soon after he returned from a visit to Singhu border after meeting the protesting farmers on Monday, alleged AAP on Tuesday, triggering a controversy. AAP said the CM was deliberately blocked to stop him from joining the Bharat bandh in support of the farmers against farm laws. It alleged that no one was being allowed to enter the CM’s house or leave it, forcing him to cancel all his scheduled meetings. Delhi Police denied the charge. AAP claimed the “house arrest” was a reaction to Kejriwal’s support for the farmers and Delhi government’s refusal to allow Delhi Police to convert nine stadiums in the city into temporary prisons for the protesting farmers who were trying to enter the capital. Kejriwal had gone to the Singhu border on Monday with his cabinet ministers to express his support for the farmers and review the arrangements made by Delhi government at the site. Rejecting BJP’s claim that the CM was not under “house arrest”, AAP asked why MPs, ministers, MLAs and even the deputy chief minister were not allowed to meet the CM and were stopped 100 metres before his residence. The political uproar began in the morning and the AAP-police tussle continued till the evening. Multiple barricades had been placed on the road leading to the CM’s residence on Monday when a group of BJP councillors, along with mayors of the civic bodies, had started a dharna seeking what they claimed were their dues from the Delhi government. The protest had led to a volatile situation on Monday when several AAP functionaries and MLAs gathered after the CM was briefly stopped from entering his residence on his return from the Singhu border. The mayors’ protests continued on Tuesday. In the morning, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj announced at a press conference that in reaction to the “house arrest”, a group of AAP leaders and volunteers will march to the CM’s residence. “The BJP-led central government is scared because if the Delhi CM comes out of his residence and stands beside the farmers in support of the bandh, then the lies of the BJP will be exposed,” said Bharadwaj. The police thwarted a bid by the AAP functionaries to cross the barricades around 1pm. They started a dharna in protest and were later joined by deputy CM Manish Sisodia and dozens of party workers. Sisodia argued with the police officers who did not allow all of them to visit the CM’s residence together. “The chief minister’s office wants police to allow AAP workers in but the police is refusing. It is taking a call on the CM’s meetings, instead of the CM doing so. Even then, BJP and its police are shamelessly saying that the CM is not under house arrest. What else is a house arrest?” said Sisodia. He too had been prevented from going in, said Sisodia, joining AAP’s dharna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-didnt-allow-anyone-toenter-cms-house-alleges-aap/articleshow/79633316.cms||AlokKNMishra
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Intern doctors want stipend hiked, threaten strike||AHMEDABAD: Intern doctors on Covid duty at government hospitals since April have threatened to go on strike if their monthly stipend is not increased from the present Rs 12,800 per month to Rs 20,000. The intern doctors, who have completed their MBBS and are serving in teaching hospitals of government colleges wrote to the deans, superintendents and Covid-19 nodal officer, saying their demand for an increase in their stipend be fulfilled immediately. They stated that either the government announces an increase in their stipend by December 14, or they will assume they have been relieved from their duties by the authorities. In a letter addressed to the authorities, the intern doctors stated that they have been serving in Covid-19 wards since April, and have been discharging all duties. Nearly 150 intern doctors have been infected by Covid-19. They underwent isolation and resumed work enthusiastically. They said that alongside senior faculty members, resident doctors and paramedical staff, they have been discharging their duties in Covid-19 wards. They are proud to have been respected as corona warriors and are grateful to the government and the people for this. However, the remuneration they are getting is not enough, compared to corona warriors in Gujarat and other states, including the medical students who have been ordered by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) to work as ‘Covid Sahayaks’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/intern-doctors-want-stipend-hiked-threaten-strike/articleshow/79631797.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Underpass plan for Kalikapur culvert||Kolkata: Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is planning to set up a pedestrian underpass on the EM Bypass stretch at Kalikapur. The authorities have started the process to engage an agency for the job by floating a tender on Monday. Officials said that the estimated cost of the project has been pegged at Rs 4.3 crore. “There is an abandoned culvert near Kalikapur junction on the Bypass. The plan is to converge the culvert to set up a subway at the place that is becoming an important traffic junction with one of the Metro stations coming up nearby,” said a KMDA official. The subway will have staircase and escalators for commuters to cross the road. The agency that will be selected for the work will have to complete the project within six months from the date of its commencement. Officials said there are a few such abandoned culverts on some places along the Bypass, where subways will be constructed for the convenience of people. “The plans will be taken up after the project of Kalikapur subway is executed successfully,” said an official. KMDA is already working on several underpass and flyover projects on the Bypass to de-congest the busy intersections like Chingrighata crossing and Ruby crossing. Currently, there are two underpasses on the Bypass — one at Hyatt crossing and the other at Belighata crossing near Chingrighata. The authorities are setting up a foot overbridge at Chingrighata crossing and also planning to dismantle the existing Chingrighata flyover in the next few years once the proposed Chingrighata to New Town flyover plan is implemented. At Ruby crossing, KMDA is planning to set up a flyover and a subway for the convenience of pedestrians.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/underpass-plan-for-kalikapur-culvert/articleshow/79631792.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Wi-Fi in markets, evening eateries in parks on the cards in city||Lucknow: Several prominent localities in the city such as Kaiserbagh, Aminabaad and Gomtinagar will be made ‘Wi-Fi zones’ under the Lucknow Smart City project. People will also be able to grab a bite in “evening open air restaurants” to be opened in parks managed by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) in the coming months. Besides, health ATMs will be installed in various parts of the state capital. These decisions were taken in the 12th board meeting of Lucknow Smart City project chaired by divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar on Tuesday. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi, who is also the chief executive officer of the Smart City Project, and joint police commissioner Women Power Line Neera Rawat were also present. Dwivedi said, “Wi-Fi zones will be created in some prominent areas of the city.” “We will take internet service from private providers, hence the service will be paid. We will soon make an action plan to execute the project and find a way to accept payments for internet users,” Dwivedi further added. The evening open air eateries will first be started in a park in Kaiserbagh as a pilot project and if successful, the concept would be extended in other LMC parks. Further, to promote digital transactions, it was decided to launch a facility through which people can pay all their bills including for house, water and electricity from a single window,” he added. Health ATMs would be established with the help of SGPGI. An expert from the institute was invited in the meeting to discuss it. It was decided that people, particularly those from weak economic background, will be given free medical advice by experts of SGPGI and other prominent hospitals through telemedicine. The board also approved establishing five charging depots for electric buses to promote eco-friendly transport. A smart LED screen will be installed at Kaiserbagh crossing to inform people about issues of public importance. LMC supervisor for each ward : To improve garbage management and to fix accountability of civic workers, Lucknow Municipal Corporation has decided to appoint a supervisor in each of the 110 wards of the city. The supervisors will be responsible for timely collection of garbage, cleaning of drains, sweeping of roads and redressal of complaints lodged on Lucknow One app. The system will be in place from mid-December, said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wi-fi-in-markets-evening-eateries-in-parks-on-the-cards-in-city/articleshow/79633365.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||4 new furnaces ready at Dhapa||Kolkata: Four new furnaces are ready to start operations at the Covid crematorium in Dhapa from the end of this month, thus taking the total number of furnaces at the facility to six. Once the furnaces are operational, cremation of Covid bodies will get streamlined, reducing the burden on the two existing furnaces and this will ensure proper maintenance to reduce breakdowns. Currently, a breakdown in a furnace leads to undue pressure on the other one and results in pileup of bodies at the hospital morgues. Normally, around 20 bodies are cremated at Dhapa daily. Sources in KMC health department said that malfunctioning of a furnace at Dhapa crematorium is causing additional pressure at the old complex in Nimtolla burning ghat. “Recently, relatives of 30 Covid-victims had queued up at Nimtolla after a furnace at Dhapa went out of order. We can’t handle so much pressure on a single day. We need to enhance our infrastructure at Nimtolla. We hope that after the commissioning of four furnaces at Dhapa, our load will be less,” said a KMC health department official at Nimtolla ghat. A KMC electrical department official on Tuesday said the new furnaces would also slash the load of other Covid-designated crematoriums like Nimtolla and Birjunala (Garden Reach). They will become functional after examinations and trial runs. Construction of these furnaces began in June while the contractors were handed a six-month deadline to complete the work. This furnace at Dhapa was built in 1995 for cremation of unclaimed bodies. But following resistance from locals in the use of other crematoriums to dispose of Covid bodies, civic authorities zeroed in on the Dhapa facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4-new-furnaces-ready-at-dhapa/articleshow/79631827.cms||Saikat Ray
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid impact: Gujarat to cut budget size by 30%||GANDHINAGAR: Deputy chief minister and finance minister Nitin Patel said on Tuesday that a drop in the state government’s revenues in the form of various taxes, coupled with austerity measures in expenditure, will reflect in the revised budget estimates, which will be drawn up by the end of this month. According to state government sources, the revised budget estimates will witness a fall of between 25% and 30% as a result of a drop in both state government revenue and expenditure. Nitin Patel said, “Government’s tax collection has fallen due to coronavirus outbreak. Government has already directed all department to follow austerity measures, so reflection in the revised budget is expected. At present, we are in process of finalizing the revised estimates.” Sources said that government income from March to November this year was only 45.30% of actual budget estimates. “In the next four months of the financial year (December 2020 to March 2021), total income from all sources may touch 65% to 70% of the budget estimates,’’ an official said. Similarly, the government’s capital expenditure on various projects has also not taken place, leading to considerable savings. Moreover, with austerity measures in place, the fall in revenues has been compensated to some extent by a reduction in expenditure as well. “However, this will result in an overall fall in the budget size by close to 30% when revised estimates are drawn this month,” officials said. Commenting on the 2021-22 state budget, sources said that the government will have to take a decision on the size of the next budget. “Going by the trend, income in the initial months of the next financial year is likely to remain low. The size of the next budget is likely to remain low if the central government does not permit the state to increase debt limit. The government will take a final decision on the issue of the 2021-22 budget size after getting clarity on debt limit and central assistance limit,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/austerity-measures-will-reflect-in-revised-budget-estimates-nitin-patel/articleshow/79631826.cms||Kapil Dave
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Karnavati Club's annual general meeting on December 19||AHMEDABAD: The annual general meeting of Karnavati Club in Ahmedabad is all set to be held on December 19, according to senior club management members. Key decisions regarding the club’s activities, progress report on the upcoming second premises of the club coupled with the appointment of office-bearers will be done during the AGM. As all the directors were elected uncontested, there no polling was held. Since the past three years, there has been no election at the club per se as the candidates are elected uncontested. The elected members include those of Member Power Panel namely Jayesh Modi, the current vice-president of the club; Jagdish Patel, president of Rajpath Club; along with Amrish Patel, Bhavesh Patel, Dhaval Patel, Vijay Mehta, Ketan Patel, Nilesh Desai, Nikki Patel, Nimesh Patel and Nitish Aggarwal. Karnavati Club resumed operations from Monday, after remaining shut for three weeks since November 21, in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city. At present, gymnasium, jogging track and all other sporting activities have resumed at the club, albeit with restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/karnavati-club-agm-on-december-19/articleshow/79631851.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Bharat Bandh: Terai region observes complete shutdown, protests held in Doon||Rudrapur/Roorkee/Dehradun: The Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers protesting against the three contentious farm laws received widespread support in the Terai region of Uttarakhand which is hailed as the rice bowl of the hill state. On Tuesday, several political parties, trader bodies, petrol pump associations, truck unions, and mandi associations extended support to the bandh call and Rudrapur’s Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (GPC) took out a rally in support of the farmers. “After demonetisation and GST, these farm laws are another attempt to please corporates by the Modi government. Besides farmers, labourers working in mandis also hit the roads in protest,” said S Ram Singh Bedi, GPC president. Sanjay Juneja, president of Rudrapur’s traders’ union, said, “People from all walks of life have come to support this protest.” Peaceful protests were also organised in Jaspur, Kashipur, Gadarpur, Kichha, Sitarganj, Nanakmatta, and Khatima towns of the Udham Singh Nagar district. The agitators tried to block a highway in Kashipur but were prevented by the police. The bandh call received a tepid response in Haridwar. In Dehradun, the Uttarakhand unit of Congress party took out a protest march to extend support to the farmers. Led by Singh, hundreds of Congressmen marched towards the Clock Tower after crossing the Gandhi Park. While a group of party members blocked the flow of traffic at Clock Tower, others marched inside the Paltan Bazaar market area. Many of them, including state chief Pritam Singh and party’s state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana were taken into preventive detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bharat-bandh-terai-region-observes-complete-shutdown-protests-held-in-doon/articleshow/79629788.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||HS council wants internal project marks by January 22||Kolkata: The internal marks for projects on non-laboratory based subjects will have to be submitted to the West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Examinations within January 22. For the candidates of HS 2021, the non-laboratory subjects like Bengali, English and mathematics among others have 80 marks written test and 20 marks project work. The project work is marked internally, which has to be sent to the HS council. “This year students could not attend classes because of the pandemic. So, the project work could not be distributed. Now, these students will be allotted a project that will be evaluated and submitted to the council within the stipulated date,” said Saugata Basu, general secretary of the West Bengal Government Teachers’ Association. The practical examinations for the laboratory based subjects, which are conducted by the HS council between December and January, has been postponed. “No practical classes could be held due to the suspension of in-person classes. Thus, the dates had to be postponed. The HS council will notify the dates later,” added Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hs-council-wants-internal-project-marks-by-january-22/articleshow/79631943.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tepid response to Bharat Bandh across Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The daylong Bharat bandh on Tuesday evoked a lukewarm response in Gujarat as normal life remained largely uninterrupted in cities, although some market yards in Saurashtra and other parts remained closed in support of the bandh which was called by farmers’ organisations and supported by opposition parties. Scores of Congress workers and agitating farmers were detained by police across the state during the day as they attempted to block highways by placing burning tyres. Dharnas were organized by the Congress in most cities and towns of the state even as police intervened and detained protesters. The state government has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC, which bans assembly of more than four persons, in view of the Bharat Bandh. In Ahmedabad, while a small section of shops and establishments remained closed in support of the bandh, transportation and other commercial activity continued unhindered. NSUI volunteers attempted to disrupt the city bus service at Vijay Crossroads and University areas, but they were detained by police. Around 50 persons, mainly leaders of political parties and social activists were put under house arrest or detained on Monday night in Ahmedabad to ensure law and order was maintained. City police had identified various persons on basis of electronic and digital surveillance and put them under detention till late on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lukewarm-response-to-bandh-across-state/articleshow/79633416.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Farmer’s death tempers mood at Tikri border||NEW DELHI: The Bharat bandh on Tuesday was a celebratory event at Tikri border, where farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan at sitting in protest. The day, however, began with consternation when a 32-year-old farmer from Sonipat was found dead in the morning. His body was sent for a post-mortem examination, though police suspect he died of hypothermia. But while the farmers mourned the death, they cited it as their willingness to even die for the greater good of their families and the generations to follow. “We will continue talks with the central government because they said they will amend the new laws,” said Manpreet Singh, who has been at the site since the first day. “We don’t want small changes here and there. We want the law to be repealed.” Manak Singh too has been there since the first day. “Had the protest not taken place, we wouldn’t have lost a farmer today,” he said. “Don’t these farmers like living in peace? Why would they live on the streets for weeks if their cause wasn’t right? The government needs to rethink.” Over 2,000 farmers shouted rousing slogans as their leaders delivered rousing speeches throughout the day. They were eyed warily by a heavy posse of security personnel, manning the multi-layer barricading. However, farmer Lal Singh said there was no risk of violence. “We have been raising our voices for a very long time and they have gone unheard. This protest was all that was left for us to do,” he explained. “There is no way we can return home carrying the burden of disappointment on our shoulders. We will stand by our demands, no matter how much time it takes.” Lal Singh added, “We have come prepared for the long haul and have enough rations to last us at least four months. We sleep in the tractors and are facing no problems here. There are public toilets too. If need be, the farmers’ unions will call for another Bharat bandh soon.” Tikri is one of the borders of Delhi with Haryana. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, have gathered here and have been protesting against the three contentious farm laws for the past 13 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/farmers-death-tempers-mood-at-tikri/articleshow/79631917.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Amid protests, UP taps kisan scheme||Lucknow: Amid the ongoing protests by farmers against Centre’s new farm laws, the Uttar Pradesh government identified over 2.16 crore farmers, who would be paid Rs 6,000 each under Centre’s flagship Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi. The fresh traction in the agriculture sector to assuage farmers comes close on heels of government’s direct purchase of 1.5 times more crop than last year with a stinker to mandis to pay up farmers within 72 hours. A government spokesperson said, UP government has sent data of 2.16 crore farmers to the Centre for approval, making room for inflow of over Rs 4,333 crore financial support to farmers. Under the PM’s Kisan programme, vulnerable landholding farmer families with cultivable land up to 2 hectares will be given direct income support of Rs 6,000 per year. The money will be transferred directly to bank accounts of beneficiary farmers in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. Farmers would receive financial support at the time of investment in rabi, kharif and zayed crops, the spokesperson said. The Rs 75,000-crore scheme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February 2019 from Gorakhpur, the home turf of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. UP has the highest number of beneficiary farmers in the country. According to officials, over 2.35 crore farmers have received Rs 22,594 crore. The central government is in talks with farmers protesting against three farm legislations and BJP has stepped up attack on opposition parties, accusing them of misleading farmers for political capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amid-protests-up-taps-kisan-scheme/articleshow/79633420.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tractor sales overtake automobile numbers in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Though there is a slowdown in the automobile sector with registrations of passenger as well as commercial vehicles witnessing de-growth over the past year, tractor sales have remained upbeat after the lockdown. Tractor sales showed de-growth in June but since July, they have been constantly growing — clocking a 20% growth from July to November this year. From July to November 2020, about 38,627 tractors were registered against 32,325 during the same period last year, according to the data provided by the Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). According to industry players, sowing was high this time and the rains were good because of which the crop yield was boosted. Accordingly, the demand for tractors went up. Pranav Shah, the chairman of the Gujarat region of the FADA, said: “Migrants had returned to their home states soon after the lockdown ended, moving back towards agriculture.” Shah added: “Moreover, the monsoon yielded a bumper harvest, thus bolstering farmers’ incomes. As a result, the sales of tractors have been good.”  The latest report by the FADA suggests that tractor registrations clocked a 32% growth in Gujarat, from 3,258 units registered in November 2019 to 4,303 registered in the same month this year. Explaining the trend, Chintak Kavathia, a dealer of tractors based in Aravalli district, said: “Tractor sales remained strong after the lockdown. Farmers got better prices for their harvest.” Kavathia went on to say: “Besides, with more people moving towards agriculture, the requirement for tractors also went up to plough smaller parcels of farmlands.” Farmers in North Gujarat are primarily involved in the cultivation of potato and groundnut and they fetched substantial prices this season, Kavathia added. Dealers said that tractors with the four-wheel-drive feature are preferred as they consume less fuel and are more efficient on farms.Anand district in Gujarat is yet another big market where tractor sales have been significant. Nazir Hussain Momin, a dealer of tractors based in Anand, said: “Agriculture was the only sector that remained unimpacted due to the lockdown. As a result, the incomes of farmers were augmented.” Momin added: “Moreover, there were fewer social and festive gatherings. The money thus saved was invested in tractors. The demand has been so good that there is a waiting period of about a month for deliveries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tractor-sales-overtake-automobile-numbers/articleshow/79633450.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Sense of betrayal took me to farm protests at Delhi’s Singhu border: Gul Panag||NEW DELHI: There were tears of joy at Delhi's Singhu border as former Miss India and actor-activist Gul Panag on Tuesday joined protests in a solidarity with farmers's clarion call for Bharat Bandh. Panag, who spent nearly two hours at the protest site, was seen listening to grievances by a large section of women farmers but maintained that she visited the site as an agriculturalist from Punjab. Panag, whose original name is Gulkirat Kaur, had contested 2014 Lok Sabha polls from Chandigarh on an AAP ticket against Pawan Bansal from Congress and Kirron Kher of BJP.. "I hold agricultural land of about two acres in village Mahadian in Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab.. My father farmed after leaving army. I was there to lift the morale of women but I instead felt the women were lifting our morale. My father, his brother and family members have collectively done more than 100 years of service in the Indian Army and yet we are farmers...I went there with a sense of betrayal that laws have been pushed by legislative procedures but not through consensus with farmers from Punjab and Haryana," Panag told TOI. The actress said there is no pro-Khalistani sentiment in Punjab and its unfortunate that attempts were made to taint all farmers as anti-national. "Such people can keep making noises. It's a false narrative The pro-Khalistanis dont have iota have support and credibility either. The point is bonafide protests cant be subverted and demeaned because of certain people," she said. The actress said that its still debatable whether new private markets outside APMC can bring more benefits to agricultural produce. She also said that it was unfortunate that farmers were being divided along states. "I met women, so comfortable in their skins. The first question you ask is kede ind to. I met farmers from UP, Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana. A lot of farmers were from Haryana. It's a wrong impression that only Punjab if fighting this cause. Women and men including from Karnal, from where mother in law comes and from Attari where my husband comes from I interacted with. And so many from Punjab's Malwa where I come from. They are speaking in unison," said Panag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sense-of-betrayal-took-me-to-farm-protests-panag/articleshow/79631969.cms||Rohan Dua
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cash for bills: AMC officer suspended||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday suspended deputy health officer Arvind Patel for allegedly demanding 10% commission to get bills of approximately Rs 1.5 crore of CIMS Hospital passed. According to AMC officials, Dr Naresh Malhotra of Aditya Hospital in Bhuyangdev, who has been booked by the Anti-Corruption Bureau, had demanded the money on behalf of Arvind Patel. Patel’s charge has been given to Dr Mehul Acharya. According to an MoU between the hospital and the AMC, bills for treatment of Covid-19 patients referred by the AMC to the private hospital are to be sent to the AMC’s health department for clearance. Patel was in-charge for Northwest Zone under whose jurisdiction CIMS hospital was operating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cash-for-bills-amc-officer-suspended/articleshow/79631949.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||CM meets members of Bharatiya Kisan Union, assures required support to farmers||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat met a delegation of Bharatiya Kisan Union and assured them required support and help in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. During the meeting, the farmers apprised CM Rawat of the issues they are facing. The CM said that the state government has undertaken a number of steps like providing interest-free loans to farmers for an amount of up to Rs 3 lakh. He added that the farmers can raise their issues at toll-free number 1905. He assured the farmers’ delegation that best possible steps were being taken to improve road, drinking, and irrigation water systems along with improving infrastructure in rural areas. He also claimed the pending payment of cane farmers has been cleared. During the meeting, the delegation also raised the issue of pension for farmers. On this, the CM said that the state has a provision to provide pension to elderly persons and the farmers can avail the benefits of the scheme. The delegation members also supported the need for a Kisan Bhawan in each district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-meets-members-of-bharatiya-kisan-union-assures-required-support-to-farmers/articleshow/79629799.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Problem of plenty with too many pharmacy colleges||PUNE: Pharmacy colleges across the state have met the demand-supply curve well, in fact too well. Till last year, 300 institutes had registered in response to a growing need for courses. But, it can all go down the drain, warn experts. All India Council for Technical Education chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe and Maharashtra State Pharmacy Council chief Vijay Patil said in a few years, this mushrooming of pharmacy colleges will have an adverse effect. It could well lead to unemployment, and eventually not enough students to fill up the seats, they cautioned. Sahasrabuddhe compared the rise of pharma colleges to the explosion of engineering colleges in the state, a few years ago. It has led to the current situation where many engineering seats, especially in the rural areas, have remained vacant with some colleges struggling to get any students. “The number of pharmacy colleges increasing shall have the worst effect four or five years down the line compared to what happened in engineering institutes,” he said. Vijay Patil, state president of Maharashtra State Pharmacy Council, agreed with Sahasrabudhe. “The crash will be visible within two years or so. Due to the increasing number of pharma colleges, the quality of students is diminishing, and nothing is being done to control it. The Pharmacy Council of India must ban the opening of new colleges or increase the intake or branching out of an existing college to a degree or diploma course. While the PCI thinks that banning will lead to institutes taking them to court, we must study the legal points to make them understand that such a decision will only bring down the level of pharmacy education in India,” Patil added. Moving To Other States Instead of a blanket ban, opening of colleges must be allowed in those states where there is a dearth of pharmacy colleges like the northeast, instead of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka where the numbers are far too many. An official of the state council, on the condition of anonymity, questioned the PCI’s ability to regulate the quality of education in these colleges. “Does the PCI have enough infrastructure or manpower to control so many colleges? How will they ensure quality control? These questions need to be addressed,” he said. Interest in pharmacy has increased after Covid-19 and the need for a vaccine, increase in pharmacovigilance cases from the US outsourced to India by IT companies, and opportunities in the Middle East for doctor of pharmacy graduates, said Sohan Chitlange, head of the board of studies of pharmaceutical chemistry at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/problem-of-plenty-with-too-many-pharmacy-colleges/articleshow/79631862.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 9, 2020||Kochi||Have Your Pasta And Eat It Too||At a modest Indian grocery store in the heart of Celbridge in Ireland, Edward Kalathil is busy foraging a glass door chest freezer in the shop’s crammed produce aisle. The Alleppey-born technology consultant knows what he wants – Kappa and Koorka. He then stops at a shelf lined with vegetables and picks up two bunches of curry leaves. Kalathil also grabs packets of dried red chillies, mustard seeds and garam masala powder before he heads to the checkout. The man behind the counter reminds him of a new sales offer on “Double Horse” pickle and Kalathil seems thankful. He swings back to the aisle and adds two bottles of pickle to his wire basket. Once back in his kitchen, Kalathil chops, boils and stir-fries these ingredients to make a delectable Pork-Koorka ularthu and pairs it with steaming hot Kappa vevichath for his family’s weekend dinner. In the process, Kalathil unwittingly demonstrates how much his dietary preferences are still rooted in tradition. A small family of three, the Kalathils have been living in Ireland for the past four years, but they are yet to welcome a traditional Irish boxty or cottage pie to their dinner table. “We love eating out and ordering takeaways. But at home, we mostly prepare Indian food. My four-year-old daughter can't tolerate overly spicy food. So, these days we are going a bit easy on the spice. That’s perhaps the only change that’s happened in my diet after coming here,” he says. Kalathil could perhaps be the poster boy for Malayalis’ food culture in Europe. Along with those bottles of pickles and banana chips that transcended European boundaries with them, most Malayalis brought in their stubborn palates too. Just across the sea, Manchester, UK had its first snow of the season and Ponnamma Varghese and her two daughters are all chilled to the bone. But none of them is craving for a hot mug of cocoa or soup to warm their souls: the trio is looking forward to hunkering down the dinner of the day – Puttu and Kadala. Like Kalathil, the NHS nurse, who has been living in the UK since 2003, is still very conventional when it comes to her kitchen affairs. However, her younger daughter Anju George certainly has a different take on the subject. When the family migrated to the UK, Anju was all of 10. The youngster, who is now doing pharmacy pre-registration training, loves experimenting with food. She has already made a healthy switch to oats milk and prefers smoothies for breakfast. Meanwhile, her sister Ann George, mom to a 2.9-year-old baby girl, seems to have chosen the middle path. “Believe it or not, I still have brown rice, appam, dosa, biryani, chicken curry, fish curry, etc., daily. I’m not a foodie, so I will adjust to anything. My sister is the evangelist of change in my mom’s kitchen. She’s the one who would try a new kind of lasagne or pasta bake every once in a while. “Mom makes mostly traditional stuff. But often, there’s a healthy twist. For example, the puttu we eat is made with rolled oats and ragi. Also, we try not to load up on carb-high foods,” she says. Thanks to her sister Anju, the Malayali Christian household seems to have integrated well. The family's dining room often witnesses the precarious balancing act of, on one hand, preserving culture and on the other, adapting to the norms of the new world. But integration is a two-way street, reminds Ann. "Everyone talks about how immigrants pick up the food habits of their new home, but the receiving country often adopts our food traditions too. We don't have to look hard for evidence. Just walk down any street in the UK and check out the line of Indian restaurants," says the IT professional. Much like Anju, there’s a new crop of Malayali youngsters who hesitate to conform to tradition or maintain cultural identity through the food they eat. This is particularly true for those who had arrived in Europe more recently. YouTuber Siyad Rawther, a Malayali nurse who lives in the village of Fohnsdorf at Styria in Austria, is perhaps one among them. “Back home, I used to eat rice almost every day. Now, it’s just once or twice a month. It’s partly because I’m a single guy who lives as a paying guest with an Austrian family. “But I've seen Malayali families here sticking with our traditional Kerala cuisine. I guess most of us start yearning for the taste of home without even attempting to adapt to the flavours of our new home,” he says. The man behind the popular YouTube channel “European Diaries,” says he eats authentic wiener schnitzel, goulash and salads made with kern oil regularly. “I live in the countryside. There are no ethnic stores nearby. So I told myself: ‘You’ve got to enjoy where you’re at, and there’s so much to indulge in. I’m going to enjoy things that are Austrian.’ That was my philosophy. And trust me, that mentality helped me in dealing with the culture shock. Now, I love everything Austrian because I never hesitated to try. Similarly, the Austrian family I live with loves the curries I make with my Umma's special garam masala," he says. Yes, integration is definitely a two-way street, just like Ann said. Merin Rebecca is a journalist living in the Republic of Ireland||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/have-your-pasta-and-eat-it-too/articleshow/79626035.cms||Merin Rebecca
December 9, 2020||Trichy||List of notified tourist spots in Trichy updated||Trichy: Trichy district tourism department has revised the list of notified tourist spots in the district by adding lesser-known potential tourism spots in the district. Detailed information on these destinations will be available in the websites of Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) and the tourism department page of the district administration. The work is being carried by National Informatics Centre, Tamil Nadu. The tourism page of the district administration will serve all necessary details including entry fee, timings and basic information about the tourism spots in the district. The revised list has 32 tourist spots now with the addition of 10 new spots. Two churches have been added in the revised list. “St Lourdes church opposite to the main guard gate and Basilica of the Holy Redeemer in Palakkarai are the new additions. Anna science centre planetarium will also be added. Besides this, Kadai pillai Ayyanar temple in Melur of Srirangam, Akkarapatti Saibaba temple, Ayyappan temple in the city have also been added,” said Trichy district tourism officer T Jegatheswari. “While Trichy is known as temple city, there are diverse places to excite tourists which can prolong their stay. Our attempt is to highlight those places with necessary information and increase the footfall,” she said. Allocation of funds for new developmental works in tourist places has been suspended due to the pandemic. The process will begin by March next year and the funds will help provide the basic requirement of these destinations, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/list-of-notified-tourist-spots-in-trichy-updated/articleshow/79633412.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 9, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Engineering admissions begin, final merit list on December 22||PUNE: The online registration for admission to the first year of undergraduate technical courses in engineering and technology, direct second-year degree in engineering, bachelor, and doctor of pharmacy will start on Wednesday. Courses under the directorate of higher education like master of education, bachelor and master of physical education, five-year law course and eight courses under the agriculture education department will also roll out on Wednesday. All engineering institutes will start their academic activity from January 4. The cut-off date for all types of admissions for 2020-21 in engineering institutes would be January 14. As many as 3,86,604 students had appeared for the common entrance test for engineering and the results were announced online on November 28. Twenty-two students received 100 percentile score in the physics-chemistry-maths group while 19 students secured the same percentile in the physics-chemistry-biology group. For admission to the first year BE/Btech course, the online registration of application and uploading of required documents would be between December 9 and 15. Verification of documents and confirmation of application form by online mode can be done between December 9 and 16. Provisional merit list would be announced on December 18 while final merit list and the provisional categorywise seats will be declared on December 22. Students can submit and confirm their option form for round 1 between December 23 and 25. They can login to http://cetcell.mahacet.org for details. After two CAP rounds, admissions will be held at the college level. Colleges will display vacant seats on their websites and invite applications from registered candidates. A merit list will be posted on each college’s website and on the institute’s notice board. All the admissions would be carried out under the government admission rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/engg-admissions-begin-final-merit-list-on-dec-22/articleshow/79631888.cms||Ardhra Nair
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Congressmen hit roads; express solidarity with protesting farmers||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Congress party took out a protest march in Dehradun on Tuesday to extend support to the Bharat Bandh call of the farmers, who are protesting against the new farm rules. When the Congress members refused to clear the road at Clock Tower, many of them, including state chief Pritam Singh and party's state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana were taken into preventive detention. Led by Singh, hundreds of Congressmen marched towards the Clock Tower after crossing the Gandhi park. While a group of party members blocked the flow of traffic at Clock Tower, others marched inside the Paltan Bazaar market area. The protesting opposition members also got the shops closed and raised slogans against the BJP government. Dhasmana and other members sat on the road at Clock Tower and the flow of traffic was blocked from all four sides. Despite the requests of senior police officers, the adamant Congress members refused to clear the road. Following which, the Opposition party members were taken into preventive custody and taken to Dehradun police lines. Congress state chief Pritam Singh said, “The bandh was successful and people from all sections of the society came out in support of the farmers. The aim was not to cause any trouble to people but make the government realise that we stand united with the farmers, who work round the year to provide food to us.” Meanwhile, Dhasmana said that the protests would continue till the time the new farm laws are taken back by the Centre. “The decision taken by the BJP government is against the farmers and also the people of the country. This shows the dual face of the BJP government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congressmen-hit-roads-express-solidarity-with-protesting-farmers/articleshow/79629805.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||At 23,750, active Covid-19 cases in West Bengal dip to 85-day low||KOLKATA: Bengal’s active Covid cases is at an 85-day low after it reported less than 3,000 new Covid cases on Monday and Tuesday. Health experts said there is a considerable dip in number of positive cases but cautioned that with the winter on its way, there could be a second wave ahead around December end and January. Bengal’s active Covid cases on Tuesday was 23,750. On September 14, the figure was lower than this at 23,693. While the number of daily tests has been constantly above 40,000 on most days, the number dropped to 31,453 on Monday. On Tuesday, however, 44,230 tests were done. The case positivity rate — number of people testing positive compared to the total tests done — remained at 8.1%. Health department officials said the some labs are being given rotation rest for maintenance work on weekends, leading to the drop in the test numbers. On Monday, there were 2,214 positive cases. On Tuesday, however, 2,941 positive cases were reported. This was the third time in nine days when the number of new cases has slipped below the 3,000 daily new-case mark. “There is an impressive drop in the number of positive cases. But once the mercury starts dipping, there is a possibility the virus may become more active to cause a second wave. We need to be on the watch,” said microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury of Peerless Hospital. “Apart from the data, what we are observing is easier availability of Covid beds, including ICU in hospitals. This shows the Covid burden is on the decline and that is a good sign,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI Hospital. The December first week has logged lower number of Covid positive cases in the state than the first week of two previous months. The state reported a total of 21,570 positive cases from December 1 to 7 against 27,730 cases in November during the same period. The number of tests, however, was lower by around 18,000 in December first week compared to the first week of November. Between October 1 and 7, Bengal recorded 23,450 positive cases while 21,087 cases were recorded in the first week of September. Despite the apprehension for a sharp spike post Durga Puja and Diwali, the number of cases have not shot up. Number of deaths, too, is on the downswing. December first week recorded 347 deaths across the state while the corresponding Covid deaths for the same period in November, October and September were 394, 418 and 392 respectively. “In the beginning of the pandemic, doctors were almost in the dark about the virus. Now with time, experience and more knowledge about the virus, healthcare professionals are more equipped to handle critical patients. As a result, mortality rate is definitely improving. But despite all awareness, a good number of patients continue to come to hospital only after they start feeling respiratory distress and this should be avoided,” said a senior health department official. Experts said reasons for number of cases going down could include that many in the community already infected, the infected preferring to stay on home isolation without confirmatory test and deploying of larger number of RAT than RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/at-23750-active-covid-cases-in-state-dip-to-85-day-low/articleshow/79633441.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 9, 2020||Pune||Doc drowns in lake after saving his son||Pune: A 37-year-old homeopathy practitioner drowned in a small lake in Talegaon Dabhade on Sunday after saving his seven-year-old son from drowning. The Talegaon Dabhade police said the deceased, Yogesh Narkhede, got stuck in a layer of silt in the lake and drowned. On Sunday evening, Narkhede took his two sons for a stroll around the lake. After the walk, the three of them were sitting on the bank. “Narkhede’s elder son suddenly slipped into the water,” a police officer said. Narkhede immediately jumped in and saved his son. “He knew how to swim, but got stuck in the silt and drowned,” the officer said.The police have registered a case of accidental death. Earlier this year, in April, two youths including a minor drowned in a water tank while they were about enter in it for cleaning at Kandali MIDC in Junnar taluka, about 95km from Pune. More recently, on November 20, a police constable attached to the Pune rural police drowned in the waters of Mula river at Sangvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doc-drowns-in-lake-after-saving-his-son/articleshow/79631931.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||No hike in exam fee this academic year: SPPU||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to not hike the exam fee this academic year for those studying at the university or its affiliated colleges. The director of examination at SPPU, Mahesh Kakade, said, “Considering the pandemic situation, the SPPU has decided that there will not be any hike in the exam fees or any other charges related to the examinations. The charges for this for the 2020-21 academic year will be the same as the previous year.” The examination fee varies for around 300 courses provided by the varsity and the colleges affiliated to it. The university had earlier issued a notification stating that there would be no hike in the tuition fee for the 2020-21 academic year. owing to the pandemic situation. The varsity, however, had not taken any decision on the exam fee then. Students had complained to the university regarding some colleges that were charging higher examination fees than earlier. As a result, the Savitribai Phule Pune University issued a circular to all the colleges to charge the same fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-hike-in-exam-fee-this-academic-year-sppu/articleshow/79631950.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Mobile toilet trolley stolen from Nigdi’s Spine Road||Pune: Unidentified men stole a mobile toilet trolley of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) from Spine Road in Nigdi sometime between December 3 and 4. PCMC health inspector Mahesh Adhav (42), of Sangvi, on Monday lodged an FIR with Nigdi police after the civic staff’s search for the mobile trolley proved futile. In May 2018, police had reported a similar theft of a mobile toilet trolley from Tathawade. The trolley in that case was installed in 2017 by PCMC as part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan. It was later traced.Prakash Lokhande, sub-inspector of Nigdi police said PCMC’S health department had set up the mobile toilet trolley on Spine Road about two years ago for the benefit of people residing in Nigdi Ota Scheme. “There were 10 toilet cabins in the trolley and the value of each trolley was about Rs95,000,” Lokhande said.Civic authorities told police that people had earlier stolen the cabin doors and also the steps installed to climb up the trolley. “Complainant Adhav said the trolley operator had finished his shift duty around 3.15pm on December 3. The following day around 7am when he returned for work, he noticed the trolley was missing,”said Lokhande. He said Adhav alerted the civic authorities and a search was carried out for the next two days. Lokhande said, “People in the area on December 3 had noticed some men tying a rope to the trolley. People, however, ignored them thinking the men might be from the PCMC.” Police are checking the CCTV footages in the area. “We will be also checking with scrap dealers,” Lokhande said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mobile-toilet-trolley-stolen-from-nigdis-spine-road/articleshow/79631951.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP political spotlight shifts to big guns in fight for 1 1 MLC seats||LUCKNOW: After BJP’s two stunning victories and a stinging setback in the recent elections to 11 graduate and teachers’ seats of UP legislative council, the spotlight is set to move to another 11 council seats involving political heavyweights whose terms will end on January 30, next year. Of 11 seats where elections are due, six seats are currently represented by Samajwadi Party, while BJP and BSP occupy three and two seats respectively. In fact, some top state leaders, including deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, leader of opposition and SP veteran, Ahmad Hasan, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state BJP vice-president and party’s Dalit leader Laxman Acharya would be completing their term and are expected to seek re-election. Five SP MLCs who are set to retire include Ashu Malik, Ramesh Yadav, Ram Jatan, Virendra Singh and Saheb Singh Saini. Likewise, BSP’s Pradeep Jatav and Dharamveer Singh Ashok will complete their six-year tenure. Given the strength of 402 MLAs in the assembly, election to each council seat would need votes of at least 35 MLAs. BJP with 309 MLA can easily bag eight seats with 29 votes to spare. It can get its ninth candidate to sail through with help of ally Apna Dal, which has nine MLAs. Likewise, SP, which has 49 MLAs will be able to win only one seat with 14 votes to spare. Therefore, the Mayawati-led BSP, which has 18 MLAs, would require support of other Opposition parties, if BJP fields an additional tenth candidate. BJP sources said, the party would bank on the fresh political alignment after the recently concluded Rajya Sabha elections in which the saffron political outfit did not field an additional candidate despite having additional votes, allowing the BSP candidate and party’s national coordinator Ramji Lal Gautam to get elected unopposed to the Upper House of parliament. After BJP refused to field an additional candidate, Samajwadi Party backed an independent candidate Prakash Bajaj, whose candidature, however, got cancelled after the returning officer found discrepancy in name of the 10th proposer. Gautam sailed through despite six BSP MLAs turning rebel and hobnobbing with the Samajwadi Party leadership. Stung by the rebellion Mayawati had suspended the six rebel MLAs and said her party may choose to help BJP in council elections to defeat the SP if the need arose. The legislative council is dominated by Samajwadi Party, which has 52 members, followed by BJP with 19 MLCs. BSP and Congress have a strength of eight and two MLCs respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-political-spotlight-shifts-to-big-guns-in-fight-for-1-1-mlc-seats/articleshow/79633463.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cancer survivor with one lung fights off Covid||NEW DELHI: A 27-year-old IT professional who had only one lung left after undergoing a cancer surgery earlier this year was rushed to Apollo hospital recently with Covid-19. The infection had caused damage to the remaining lung and the doctors were apprehensive about the chances of his survival. But, beating all odds, the man survived and is currently recuperating at home, the doctors said. While having two lungs is ideal, people typically can survive with one lung under normal health conditions. But a patient with one lung contracting Covid-19 is a rare condition, said Dr Praveen Kumar Garg, senior consultant, surgical oncology at Apollo Hospitals. He added that the 27-year-old man, a resident of Faridabad, was admitted to the hospital with Covid-19 associated pneumonia on November 3. “It took nearly 10 days of ICU care to stabilise him. He was discharged from the hospital on November 17,” Dr Garg said. Age was on the patient’s side, according to Dr Sudha Kansal, senior consultant of pulmonology and respiratory medicine, at Apollo hospital. “Covid-19 primarily affects the lungs. This patient had only one lung. We were apprehensive about his chances of survival. But luckily for him, young age and timely medical intervention helped prevent any serious damage to the remaining lung. We gave him plasma therapy as well as oxygen support,” Dr Kansal said. The man was diagnosed with a cancerous tumour in the chest in January. At that time, he was working in Bengaluru. The IT professional was airlifted to Delhi as he could not breathe easily. The tumour, Dr Garg said, was pressing on the heart and the lungs. “We gave him a few cycles of chemotherapy. After that, a chest surgery was conducted to remove one of the lungs with the tumour and a protective layer above the heart, called pericardium, as the disease had affected it too. It was a successful surgery and after a few more rounds of chemotherapy, he was discharged in a healthy state,” Dr Garg, who led the team of doctors treating him, said. “I was very shocked when his family called to inform me that he had tested positive for Covid-19. It sounded like a death knell. But fortunately we could save him,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cancer-survivor-with-1-lung-fights-off-covid/articleshow/79632035.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Liquor worth Rs 45L goes missing from excise dept truck, U’khand DGP orders probe||Dehradun: Days after an excise department truck, carrying 450 cartons of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 45 lakh, had gone missing after being dispatched to Haldwani from a bottling plant in Tehri, the vehicle was found abandoned near the campus of Kumaon Engineering College in Dwarahat region of Almora district last Saturday (December 5). The liquor bottles and the truck’s drive were missing. The truck, hired by the department, had gone missing on December 1. BS Chauhan, joint secretary in the excise department, on Tuesday, reported the matter to Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar, who immediately directed the Almora senior superintendent of police to file an FIR in the case and initiate a probe. The DGP also ordered the SSP to suspend Harish Prasad, station in-charge of Dwarahat police station. It is claimed by the excise department officials that Prasad did not take the complaint of the excise department and the transporter. “It's a very serious matter and I have directed the Almora SSP to file an FIR and have also asked him to take action against the errant police official who refused to take the complaint. The driver, who is the main witness in the case, is also missing,” said Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar. Kumar has also directed the deputy inspector general, Special Task Force (STF), to set up a special team to work out the case at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/liquor-worth-rs-45l-goes-missing-from-excise-dept-truck-ukhand-dgp-orders-probe/articleshow/79629816.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman’s obscene pictures made viral||AHMEDABAD: A woman,40, from Vadaj on Monday filed a complaint against her ex-boyfriend and his friend for allegedly making her obscene pictures viral which was also sent to her uncle. Later her ex-boyfriend’s friend — who sent those obscene pictures — allegedly molested and thrashed her. In her FIR with Vadaj police, the woman said that she was in relationship with a man named Praveen Punad, who was living in the same locality, around 10 years ago. At that time, Punad had taken their obscene pictures which he allegedly gave to his friend Prakash Parmar. On December 4, Parmar stopped her and told her that he had made her pictures viral and he would defame her further while teasing and molesting her. When she resisted, Parmar allegedly thrashed her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/womans-obscene-pics-made-viral/articleshow/79632013.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||De-roster date over but most Kolkata schools decide to go slow||KOLKATA: The court sanction notwithstanding, most schools in the city on Tuesday took no step to debar students from online classes though their parents had failed to meet the deadline and pay fees since April. The Calcutta High Court, in its October 13 order, had directed schools to waive 20% tuition and session fees and also instructed parents to clear the dues by November 30 failing which, institutes could remove their children from online classes and other facilities from December 8. The Church of North India, which runs 12 English-medium schools in the city, decided on Tuesday to “go slow and be tolerant” towards defaulting parents, though the authorities said the dialogue with parents would continue through emails, calls and one-on-one meetings. “We are taking stock of the outstanding amounts and that of parents who are yet to pay. Our chairman, Bishop Paritosh Canning, has asked us to be soft and keep the dialogue on. We are not debarring kids from classes and hope by the end of the year, we will be in a better position,” said John Ghosh, secretary of the CNI Diocese that runs schools, such as La Martiniere for Boys and Girls, St James’, Pratt Memorial, St John’s Diocesan and St Thomas’ Kidderpore. On Monday, the Archdiocese of Kolkata, which runs six schools in the city, had said they were extending the payment deadline to March, the end of the academic year. At some popular English-medium schools on the city fringes, however, some kids were debarred as guardians, who had defaulted on payment, had reportedly not communicated with the institutes at all. A few parents at some schools also allegedly called up and abused teachers. Defaulting parents at schools that have not officially extended the payment deadline, like DPS Ruby Park, were especially scared that their children might be removed on Tuesday, but they heaved a sigh of relief as no action was taken against the students. Same was the case with Asian International School, where messages had gone out to defaulting parents that unless they cleared the outstanding amounts by December 7, their wards would be debarred. “We were so relieved to see that the school has posted another message, informing that the deadline for payment has been extended up to December 30,” said a parent, who has spoken with the school authorities and has been allowed to pay in small instalments. “We will not debar kids. Despite constraints, we are trying our best to work out alternatives,” said principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. All the schools that have decided not to remove students from online classes or other facilities are the ones that have filed an appeal in the Supreme Court against the Calcutta High Court order that asked all private, unaided schools of the state to allow 20% waiver on tuition and session fees for the pandemic months. The hearing is still on. The parents’ body has also filed an application in the Supreme Court for extension of the payment deadline and a case of contempt against schools for clubbing several heads of expenses under tuition fees. These hearings are yet to come up. South Point and M P Birla have allowed 250 defaulting parents to opt for different options till December 19 and hence, no student was debarred from classes on Tuesday. “Debarring kids is far from our minds. We know about the parents’ distress and will help them out if they reach out to us,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani. Though no official extension of deadline has been given, heads of St Xavier’s Collegiate School and Don Bosco Park Circus said they were happy with the way most parents had paid up and would hope to collect from defaulters gradually. No one was stopped from classes there either. At Mount Litera Zee School, Maheshtala, about 40 kids of parents, who had failed to clear the dues, were stopped from attending classes, while 70 were allowed. “In the former case, parents refused to communicate, while in the latter case, parents are truly distressed and are paying up slowly. Those who did not communicate at all, even called up our teachers and abused them,” said principal G M Leena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/de-roster-date-over-but-most-city-schools-decide-to-go-slow/articleshow/79632104.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||SC stays contempt proceedings against Maharashtra governor, seeks U’khand’s reply||Nainital: The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the contempt of court proceedings being heard in Uttarakhand high court against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari over his alleged failure to pay the dues for using government bungalow, cars and others services after demitting the office of chief minister in the hill state. The high court had on May 3 last year directed four former chief ministers-- Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank, BC Khanduri, Vijay Bahuguna and Bhagat Singh Koshiyari-- to pay the market rates for the government services they availed after leaving the office. A contempt petition was later filed and accepted in the high court after they didn’t pay the amount to the state a year after the court order. As the court issued notices in the contempt cases, Bahuguna, Khanduri and Nishank approached the apex court which granted stay and clubbed the petitions together. On Tuesday, the apex court also stayed the contempt proceedings in the Koshiyari case and issued a notice to the Uttarakhand government seeking its response on the issue. A bench of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, Justice KM Joseph and Justice Krishna Murari listed the case for further hearing along with the petitions filed by three former chief ministers on December 18. Now all the four cases will be heard together. The high court had issued notice to Governor Koshiyari in October. Article 361 grants immunity to the sitting governors as well as President from any court proceedings against them. However, the high court said that immunity was only against criminal cases. The single judge bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma had given Koshiyari four weeks’ time to respond. Koshiyari, however, challenged the notice in the apex court arguing that he is protected by Article 361 and that he was not the part of the process to determine the rent. According to records, Koshiyari allegedly owes around Rs 47.5lakh for the services he availed. The contempt cases against Koshiyari and three former chief ministers were filed by Dehradun-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK) alleging that they “are in willful disobedience even a year after the high court’s May 2019 order that directed them to pay the market rates for the services they availed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/sc-stays-contempt-proceedings-against-maharashtra-governor-seeks-ukhands-reply/articleshow/79629830.cms||Prashant Jha
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC seeks reply on track conversion in Gir sanctuary||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday asked the state government to respond to a demand for cancellation of gauge conversion and electrification of tracks by the railways in the Gir sanctuary, the last abode of Asiatic lions. Advocate Hemang Shah, the amicus curie, in the suo motu PIL on the issue of conservation of the Asiatic lions, filed an application and sought the court’s directions to the state authorities and state board of wildlife to put the brakes on permission granted to the railways for gauge conversion and the decision to allot 150 hectares of land to the railways for this purpose. The amicus curiae also sought the HC’s intervention on the government’s decision to lay pipelines for gas, oil and optical fibre. He sought directions to the government and the wildlife board not to divert forest land for these activities, and if already allotted, to cancel the allotment. He also sought directions to the lower courts around Gir sanctuary to expedite cases involving harassment to lions. Shah cited various news reports including TOI’s, published on September 30, about the state government’s decision and the state board of wildlife’s approval of allotment of land to the railways. He pointed out that the decision was taken despite resistance from one of the board members. In his application, the amicus curiae stated that the state government’s action and decision of the state board of wildlife must be deprecated and cancelled. The railway line cannot have precedence over the Asiatic lion, which is an endangered species. He asserted that such development at the cost of the majestic creature cannot be permitted. “On one hand, the state and Union government talk about lion conservation, on the other hand, they resort to destruction of the very abode of the endangered species,” the application reads. After hearing Shah, the high court asked the government to respond to it by December 22. The high court filed this PIL in 2018 after the state government revealed before the assembly that 184 lions had died in the previous two years and 34 of them had died unnatural deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-seeks-reply-on-track-conversion-in-gir/articleshow/79633475.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Defying sand hurdle, temple pillars to be laid after Dec 15||Ayodhya: Defying initial hiccups of loose sand impairing a robust foundation to the Ram temple in Ayodhya, work on the foundation will finally take off after December 15, exactly two months behind schedule. The move was green-flagged by the Ram temple construction committee led by chairman Nripendra Mishra, who concluded the two-day brainstorming session at Faizabad Circuit House on Tuesday evening. Experts from Larsen &Toubro, Tata Consultancy, IIT Madras, IIT Rookie, Akshardham temple architect, Brahm Bihari Swami, and Ram temple architect Ashish Sompura were present at the meeting along with members of the Trust, including secretary Champat Rai. Retired IAS officer and former receiver of Ramjanmabhoomi, Shatrughan Singh, made his debut at the panel meeting on Tuesday. The experts will soon submit their report to the construction committee. Talking to TOI, Dr Anil Mishra, trustee of Ram temple Trust, confirmed work on laying the temple foundation will begin after December 15 and in the first phase, the outer security wall will be built. Trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri said, said, “We will embark on development work on the outer periphery of the 67-acre Ramjanmabhoomi premises in coordination with the district administration.” Experts had launched a brainstorming session on ways to jam the foundation pillars with loose sand due to its proximity to the Saryu banks. Sources said, there were initial fears that sand would not firm up the pillars, which may not be able to take the load of the mammoth structure, which was touted to last 1,000 years by weathering natural calamities, including earthquakes. However, the construction committee cited the Taj Mahal, which too is built near the Yamuna banks and has sand in the base. “Take the example of Taj Mahal, which is standing without damage on land with loose sand under its ground,” said Dr Anil Mishra, trustee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/defying-sand-hurdle-temple-pillars-to-be-laid-after-dec-15/articleshow/79633479.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop attacks accountant neighbour in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old man from New Ranip — an accountant with a private firm — on Monday filed a complaint with Sabarmati police alleging that a cop living in his society thrashed him over an old grievance and pushed him so badly that his one-year-old daughter fell and suffered injuries. Sanjay Koshti, a resident of Ayodhyanagari Society, alleged that the family of the accused cop, Shaktisinh Vaghela, has been picking fights with them since he and his family came to live in the society in 2012. On the other hand, Shaktisinh’s mother Manharba filed a complaint alleging that Koshti called her son a goon cop after which they got into a scuffle. Sabarmati police registered a complaint of causing hurt against Koshti as he allegedly assaulted Shaktisinh and his family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-attacks-accountant-neighbour/articleshow/79632050.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||More flying clubs to add wings to UP civil aviation||Lucknow: Aiming to add more wings to the civil aviation sector in the state, the UP government is planning to allow setting up of more private flying clubs and permit them to use 14 existing air strips for training of pilots, engineers, technicians, flight dispatchers and cabin crew. The state government is incorporating changes in the aviation policy to boost the aviation sector and the new policy would be ratified by the state cabinet soon. On Tuesday, the civil aviation department made a presentation of the amended policy before chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who hailed the efforts in the state for improving air connectivity. At present, seven private agencies are conducting training courses in UP as per the civil aviation policy which was last amended in 2007. Officials said changes in the policy had become essential as there have been large scale changes in the aviation sector in the last 13 years. Director, civil aviation, Surendra Singh said, “Under the new policy, use of air strips would be allowed for training of pilots, engineers, technicians, flight dispatchers and cabin crew.” At the same time, the air strips would be available for operation of state-owned aircraft and charter planes. The private flying clubs will be required to develop infrastructure from their own resources, while following set norms of regulatory bodies like Directorate General of Civil Aviation. The policy also allows extension of term of licence for flying clubs from existing five to 10 years. The government would provide night landing facilities also, besides adopting e-tendering process for allocation of flying clubs, Singh added. The state has seven functional airports while the government is developing 12 more. The CM was apprised about the Kushinagar airport where development work has been completed. The airport, which will further boost Buddhist circuit tourism, is in the licence provisioning stage, said officials. The Project Monitoring Implementation Committee has also agreed to construct five runways at Jewar international airport. Yogi said the state is well ahead of others in constructing airports with its own resources. He said giving air strips for usage by flying clubs would help youth in making a career in the aviation sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/more-flying-clubs-to-add-wings-to-up-civil-aviation/articleshow/79633485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Temperature drop, pollution rise spark worries in Covid-19 season||PUNE: The city is once again registering a worrisome combination of rising pollution and low temperatures, a condition that health experts fear may make citizens more vulnerable to Covid-19. Track the pollution level in your cityReal-time data from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) System of Air Quality Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Tuesday showed that particulate matter (PM 2.5) concentrations since December 2 in the city have been higher than that of the main Diwali day (November 14). State Covid-19 task force members have cautioned citizens to be watchful, as such a condition can make people more vulnerable to catch infections including Covid-19. On the main Diwali day, the average PM 2.5 concentration in Pune was 70 µg/m³. It has ranged from 71 µg/m³ to 81µg/m³ since December 2. The maximum permissible limit for the pollutant is 60 µg/m³. Temp drop, pollution rise spark fears in nCoV seasonEarly Tuesday morning, Pune’s air quality index (AQI) plunged to the “poor” level. It, however, returned to the “moderate” mark by afternoon. However, the pollutant concentrations in the city have crossed the maximum permissible limit with “poor” air quality in some locations, the SAFAR data revealed. An IITM source said, “Kothrud, Bhumkar Chowk and Bhosari have been recording ‘poor’ air quality. The dip in the minimum temperature is the main reason for the increase in the concentration of particulate matter. Kothrud has higher pollutant concentration among all the stations in Pune, most probably due to construction activity and traffic congestion.” Night temperature in Pune has been in the range of 10ºC-12ºC since December 4, which has aided the rising pollution levels. With the temperature falling and pollution spiking, state Covid-19 task force members have said citizens should not let their guard down. Shashank Joshi, a member of the state’s Covid task force, told TOI, “Until Pune’s test positivity rate falls to 2% or below and case fatality rate to 0.5% or below, we cannot consider Covid as controlled. All precautions should be taken during the current period, as well as the coming festive period.” He said, “The period after December 25 is likely to have lower temperatures, higher pollution levels and is usually a time when the non-Covid-19 lung or heart ailment-related deaths are high. Crowding is usual during the period because of Christmas, New Year and wedding celebrations.” Joshi said there were increased chances of poorly ventilated environs in colder temperatures because “particulate matter tends to linger closer to the ground level in lower temperatures, increasing people’s susceptibility to catching respiratory infections, including Covid-19”. Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, told TOI that since the start of December, cases of respiratory infections have started increasing because of the drop in night temperatures and high pollution. “Of the average per day cases of respiratory infections, almost 25% are turning out to be suspected Covid-19 patients,” he said. A study in Italy on Covid-19 and air pollution connection stated that the virus could have an air transmission and atmospheric particulate matter could create a suitable environment for transporting it at greater distances. Studies also indicate that adverse health impacts of air pollution can make people prone to the infection or exacerbate the severity of Covid-19 symptoms, once infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temp-drop-pollution-rise-spark-worries-in-covid-19-season/articleshow/79632051.cms||Neha Madaan
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Chengalpet, still very much on the fringe||CHENNAI: Chengalpet was hived off as a district so that residents on the southern fringes of Chennai did not have to travel all the way to Kancheepuram to visit government offices. But a year on, confusion remains over which police office or court to approach or where to go to get a building plan approved. Often residents are forced to navigate the labyrinthine government network across three districts – Chennai, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram.Advocate B Ramesh from Madipakkam says that though Alandur has been brought under Chennai revenue district, the Alandur combined courts continue to function under the Chengalpet district court. And for consumer cases, people from Madipakkam, Ullagaram, Adambakkam and Nanganallur can approach the Chennai consumer grievance redressal forum, but at times they are made to travel all the way to Chengalpet, he said. Another discrepancy involves police limits. A few years ago, the Greater Chennai Police limits were extended till Peerkankaranai, which is only 30km from the Chengalpet district police headquarters. People from there have to come all the way to Vepery, which is 40km away, for any work with the commissioner’s office. Adding to the confusion are the education districts and assembly constituencies, whose limits have nothing to do with the revenue districts. G Satish, an OMR resident, says that though he will vote from Sholinganallur constituency in the coming state assembly election, the recently released electoral roll says his residential address is within Chitlapakkam panchayat limits and not Greater Chennai Corporation as it should be. This turns the voter ID into an invalid address proof. The headmaster of a private school at St Thomas Mount faces a problem that would be funny if it wasn’t so vexing: “When there is heavy rain here in Chennai and all other nearby schools are shut for a day or two, we work because the Chengalpet chief educational office (CEO) doesn’t declare a holiday, based on their local weather conditions.” K Baby, a social worker from Semmancheri, says she travels all the way to Kancheepuram district collectorate to submit applications for construction welfare schemes as the department’s office is yet to be set up for Chengalpet district beneficiaries. To get new water or electricity connections, residents of the new Chengalpet district are made to shuttle between government offices in both districts. Why not just use the government e-seva centres? Many residents say they are still confused about their revenue division/taluk details so accessing services online is difficult. Worse, Chengalpet still doesn’t have an official website to explain all these basic details or contact numbers of officials concerned. This confusion was evident during the Covid lockdown phase when Chengalpet residents had a tough time getting their addresses/taluks right for obtaining vehicle e-passes. Hundreds of applications got rejected because of incorrect addresses, show official data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chengalpet-still-very-much-on-the-fringe/articleshow/79632063.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 9, 2020||World||Joe Biden announces new health team to tackle Covid-19 in US||WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday (local time) formally announced key members of his incoming administration's health team, which includes Indian-American doctor Vivek Murthy, who will be responsible for managing the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. "Today, I'm pleased to announce a team who's going to do just that. It's a team of world-class experts at the top of their fields, crisis tested, defined by a deep sense of duty, honor and patriotism," he said in a briefing from Wilmington, Delaware. Biden nominated Indian-American doctor Vivek Murthy as Surgeon-General, Xavier Becerra as the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS), Dr Rochelle Walensky as the director for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Dr Anthony Fauci as chief medical adviser to the President, Jeff Zients as coordinator of the Covid-19 response, Natalie Quillian as deputy coordinator to the Covid-19 response, and Dr Marcella Nunez-Smith as the chair of his Covid-19 equity task force. During his briefing, Biden outlined three key goals in the first 100 days in office, including masking, vaccinations and opening schools for children. "My first 100 days won't end the Covid-19 virus, I can't promise that. But we did not get into this mess quickly, we're not going to get out of it quickly. It's going to take some time," he said. "I am absolutely confident that in 100 days we can change the course of this disease and change life in America for the better. First, my first 100 days, I am going to ask for a masking plan. Everyone for the first 100 days of my administration will wear masks. It will start with my sign in order on day one to require masks where I can under the law, like federal buildings, interstate travel on planes, trains and buses. I'll also be working with the governors and mayors to do the same in their states and their cities. We're going to require masks wherever possible. But this goes beyond government action." He also said that his new health team will help provide at least 100 million Covid-19 vaccine shots in his first 100 days. "We will follow the guidelines of science to get the vaccine to those most at risk, that includes healthcare professionals, people in long term care, and soon as possible, we will include educators. This will be the most efficient mass vaccination plan in US history," he said. He further said that this would be one of the hardest and most costly operational challenges in the nation's history, and called on the US Congress to fully fund vaccine distribution to all corners of the country, to everyone. "The third thing I'm going to ask in the 100 days, it should be a national priority to get our kids back into school and keep them in school. If Congress provides the funding we need to protect students, educators, and staff, if states and cities put strong public health measures in place that we all follow, then my team will work to see that a majority of our schools can be open by the end of my first 100 days," further said the President-elect. Dr Murthy said that in his new role, he will work to bring a health focus to the country's policies across the government, so that the schools, workplaces and our communities can be forces for strengthening health and well-being. "More than anything, I will come to this role as a doctor. One who learned the most important lessons about medicine, not in medical school, but from the clinic that my parents opened when they first came to America as immigrants decades ago... Driven always by science and facts, by head and by heart, and endlessly grateful to serve one of the few countries in the world where the grandson of a poor farmer in India could be asked by the president-elect to look out for the health of an entire nation," he said. Meanwhile, Becerra stated that the Department of HHS has never been as vital or urgent as it is today, adding that at HHS, tackling pandemics, saving lives, keeping us healthy should be the country's calling card. "We won't forget that there is a second H in HHS, the human services, the work we do for our children, seniors, and disabled, they will stand tall in a Biden Harris, HHS," he said.Dr Walensky said that she was honoured to work with an administration that understands that leading with science is the only way to deliver breakthroughs, hope and bring the nation back to full strength. Recalling her experience during the HIV-AIDS crisis, "As a medical student, I saw first-hand how the virus ravaged bodies and communities. Inside the hospital, I witnessed the people losing strength and hope, while outside the hospital I witnessed those same patients, mostly gay men and vulnerable communities, being stigmatised and marginalised by their nation and many of its leaders." "To the American people and to each and every one of you at the CDC, I promise to work with you, to harness the power of American science, to fight this virus and prevent unnecessary illness and deaths so that we can all get back to our lives," she added. The country's top infectious disease expert, Dr Fauci said that the virus was the "toughest" public health crisis ever faced in the nation. "These actions are bold, but they are doable and essential to help the public avoid unnecessary risks, to help us save lives, reopen schools and businesses, and to eventually beat the pandemic. I look forward to advising you on these most urgent priorities and to work with this team of world-class experts, whom I have known for many years and deeply respect... The road ahead will not be easy. We have got a lot of hard and demanding work to do in the next year. But as we have done during previous crises, I also know we can get through this pandemic together as a nation," he said. Meanwhile, Vice President-elect Kamala Harris expressed gratitude to healthcare workers. "Getting this virus under control is one of the defining challenges of our time, and we will do what the American people have always done in the face of a great challenge. We will stand together and we will defeat it," she said. The United States continues to be the worst-affected state of the Covid-19 pandemic, with 15,087,418 infections and 285,518 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-announces-new-health-team-to-tackle-covid-19-in-us/articleshow/79634776.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Apology accepted in fake rape case, Delhi HC quashes FIR||NEW DELHI: A married woman’s disclosure that she levelled false rape charge “out of anger” at her lover, led the Delhi high court to quash the FIR recently. Justice Suresh Kait granted relief to one Lalit Kumar after the complainant woman admitted in court that following a tiff, she registered a fake rape case to teach Kumar a lesson. Though the court initially wanted to prosecute the woman for lying, it became lenient after taking into account other circumstances. “Since prosecutrix has made wrong statement, which culminated into the present FIR, therefore, she is liable to be prosecuted under the law, however, she seeks unconditional apology and submits that she is a married woman having two children and her matrimonial life will be destroyed if the present case is sent for trial. Her unconditional apology is accepted,” justice Kait noted in his order ending the criminal proceedings against Kumar. Facing rape allegations, Kumar had moved the high court on the ground that he and the complainant had reached a compromise on the matter. In court, the woman said the FIR was lodged out of anger, since the duo had an altercation in August this year. She filed an affidavit and also submitted an apology. The court noted that as per law, an FIR should not be quashed in case of rape as it is an heinous offence. However, it noted that in this case when the “complainant/prosecutrix herself takes the initiative and files affidavit before this court, stating that she made the complaint due to some misunderstanding and now wants to give quietus to the misunderstanding that arose between the petitioner and respondent, in my considered opinion, in such cases, there will be no purpose in continuing with the trial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/apology-accepted-in-fake-rape-case-hc-quashes-fir/articleshow/79632105.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Doctors’ meet to frame ‘Healthy Purvanchal’ plan||LUCKNOW: To prepare a roadmap for ‘Healthy Purvanchal’, doctors will come together during a three-day webinar-cum-seminar and discuss in detail how to put together health infrastructure in 28 districts of the region, which have been afflicted with various concerns, including encephalitis. The webinar-cum-seminar will be held from December 10-12. The webinar cum seminar is being organised by the planning department at the Deen Dayal Upadhyay University, Gorakhpur. Discussions will be held on ‘Sustainable Development of Purvanchal’ and ‘A New Initiative for Eastern Uttar Pradesh’ during which doctors will also deliberate on improving trade and business in the region with focus on promotion of the ‘one district-one product’ scheme. At the national level webinar-cum-seminar on health, which will be conducted under the supervision of AIIMS Gorakhpur, eminent doctors are expected to share information about disease control and their local experiences in order to prepare a roadmap for Purvanchal. All medical colleges in UP will be connected through a network in which information on every disease and its treatment will be recorded. This will be used to equip hospitals in villages and towns with facilities to treat people. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the webinar-cum-seminar and symposium. Union Minister of AYUSH (independent charge) Shripad Yasho Naik will be present as a special guest. A government spokesperson said the CM had directed officials to focus on wholesome development of Purvanchal. Keeping that in mind, the webinar-cum-seminar has been organised so that experts from across the country and abroad can share their experience and opinion for preparing a roadmap exclusively for the region with the aim to improve agriculture, education, medicine, industry, tourism and infrastructure facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/doctors-meet-to-frame-healthy-purvanchal-plan/articleshow/79633493.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid vax export & import: Hyd airport set to play pivotal role||Hyderabad: The city’s international airport is all set to emerge as a major port for the export and import of Covid-19 vaccines. Along with the Delhi airport, the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC), is expected to facilitate the storage and shipment of millions of doses of the vaccine, said officials, confirming that preparations are underway to make it capable of handling the load. “Since these vaccines require specialised handling, procedures are being developed in coordination with manufacturers and supply-chain players to mitigate any risk during the process of transportation—- right from the manufacturers’ facility to the final destination,” a release issued by GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd stated, on the eve of an international delegation’s visit to some key research and development institutions in Hyderabad. Earlier this year, the GHAC launched Cool Dolly -- a mobile refrigeration system to ensure safe transportation of the vaccine at a specified temperature. Anticipating a spurt in demand for vaccines and other pharma products, GHAC is now in the process of expanding its facilities and increasing its storage capacity. “It is in talks with various stakeholders to meet specific requirements of export and import of Covid-19 vaccines, including the challenge of having a multiple range of cold and ultra-cold minus temperatures,” read the release, adding, “It is also working with cool container providers for maintaining large stock at its station.” Further, the entire pharma zone at the facility has been equipped with temperature and humidity sensors with alarm alerts along with CCTV surveillance to check any temperature excursion in real time. “As per industry insights, most of India’s vaccine export will be to Africa, Latin America and Asian destinations. Ingredients may be obtained from Europe and few other regions,” the GHAC release stated reiterating how Hyderabad will play an integral role, once “key manufacturers succeed with human trials that are in progress”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-vax-export-import-hyd-airport-set-to-play-pivotal-role/articleshow/79632109.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: First fog disruption this winter hits 33 flights, holds up departures for two hours||KOLKATA: Diversion of an incoming flight and delay in several flights departing from city airport on Tuesday morning marked the first major disruption due to fog this winter. Thirty-three fights were affected and operations were suspended for 90 minutes. Weathermen said there could be fog on Wednesday morning as well, again causing some problems in flight operations. On Tuesday, visibility began declining from 4.30am, when shallow fog set in. The condition worsened around 6.15am, when visibility dropped below 50m. It stayed that way for an hour-and-a-half before visibility began improving and cleared the 1,000m mark around 9.30am. As a result, 33 flights were delayed, most of them departing ones. Of the six arrivals that were delayed, one had to be diverted to another airport. Airport officials said the delay for departing flights ranged from 30 minutes to three-and-a-half hours. The situation would have been worse had it been one day earlier or later as more flights would have been held up. On Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, around 50 more flights operate than the other days of the week due to an embargo on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Pune and Nagpur on Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. IndiGo that had 64 flights scheduled for operation from Kolkata airport on Tuesday saw 10 morning flights being delayed. Other airlines — Air India, SpiceJet and GoAir — also reported delays. The disruption would have been more extensive had the airport not been equipped with category (CAT) III-B instrument landing system (ILS) that allow flights to land when visibility is as low as 50m, provided the aircraft is equipped with the requisite technology and pilots are trained. “Departures were completely held up after the 6.15am take-off. The next flight could depart only at 8.15am. In between, for about half an hour, some incoming flights did land. But for 90 minutes, the meteorological condition was not conducive for flight operations,” said airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee. Fog is a visible aerosol consisting of tiny water droplets or ice crystals suspended in the air near the earth’s surface. It is a low-lying cloud and is heavily influenced by nearby bodies of water, topography, and wind conditions. Fog begins to form when water vapour condenses into tiny liquid water droplets that are suspended in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1st-fog-disruption-this-winter-hits-33-flights-holds-up-departures-for-2-hrs/articleshow/79632112.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Many promises made, but none kept||CHENNAI: In November 2019, when Chengalpet was carved out of Kancheepuram, people on the city’s fringes coming under the new district were told their living standards would improve. A year later, the only improvement is that they have to travel shorter distances to complain. From piped water supply on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) to underground sewerage system in Tambaram and infrastructure facilities to ease traffic for accessing GST Road, nothing has improved. A proposal for creating a Tambaram-headquartered corporation by merging Pallavaram, Pammal and Sembakkam municipalities and a few town and village panchayats, on the lines of Avadi corporation in Tiruvallur district, is pending with the government. Drawing water from Vayalur check dam on ECR to supply OMR residents not covered under the piped supply scheme is yet to see light, while garbage disposal remains a major issue. Major General (retd) Jose Manavalan, past president of Oceanic Owners Association at Hiranandani Upscale on OMR, Navalur village panchayat didn’t collect garbage. “We are paying for all services despite taxes paid for the purpose.” In the absence of an underground sewerage system, many of the 564 water bodies have become drains. Chitlapakkam Residents Associations Co-ordination Committee convenor P Viswanathan said a comprehensive underground sewerage scheme proposed in 2006, but dropped five years later is the only solution. Chromepet-based activist V Santhanam said the Veeraraghavan, Thiruneernmalai and Nemelichery lakes have not been rejuvenated as promised. Many complain that collector A John Louis doesn’t respond to complaints. David Manohar of Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption NGO, said the collector neither inspected poorly renovated laes at Pallavaram and Putheri nor responded to complaints on encroachments. Federation of OMR Residents Associations co-founder Harsha Koda said the bifurcation process was just a political exercise. John Louis said the underground drainage system at Tambaram was nearing completion and a solid waste management facility would come up at Venkadamangalam after a nod from the Green Tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/many-promises-made-but-none-kept/articleshow/79632106.cms||Ram Sundaram
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||‘Biz Sakhis move to boost rural banking & empower women’||Lucknow: The training of 56,875 business correspondent (BC) Sakhis, who are being roped in to promote rural banking, will start from December 15. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the programme would not only help in simplifying banking for rural population by offering them services at their doorstep but would also create employment for women. Reviewing uniform, protocol and preparations for the training on Tuesday, the CM said the initiative would empower women in the state. Additional chief secretary (rural development) Manoj Singh said around 2.16 lakh applications were received from 58,532 gram panchayats from across the state for the post of BC Sakhis. In the first phase, 56,875 candidates were shortlisted and their training would commence on December 15. Training will be conducted in all the districts once in a week in two batches of 30 each. Once the training is complete, an online examination will be conducted by the Indian Institute of Banking and Finance. Commerce Bank, Corporate BC and Fintech Payment Bank have been being linked to the programme for proper training of candidates. Singh said at least 34 companies had shown interest for partnership in the programme and the selection process would be completed soon. BC Sakhis will be provided a desktop computer, a laptop, POSH machine, card reader and fingerprint reader. For this, candidates will be provided an interest-free loan. They will be given a monthly stipend of Rs 4,000 per month for six months and Rs 1,200 per month as ‘samooh sakhi’ stipend. They will be permitted an overdraft of Rs 25,000. In addition to this, they will be paid a commission of 0.2% on every transaction. Singh said BC Sakhis could also be empowered to draw funds for payment of wages under MGNREGS, government grant for home and toilet construction etc. NIFT, Rae Bareli, has been assigned the task of designing uniform for BC Sakhis which, the CM said, would be in keeping with Indian traditions. Weavers from Varanasi, Mau and Mubarakpur have been roped in to prepare uniforms. Each BC Sakhi will get the first two sets of uniform free of cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biz-sakhis-move-to-boost-rural-banking-empower-women/articleshow/79633501.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Recreate pulse polio infra for vaccine: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: In anticipation of the Covid-19 vaccine being available early next year, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to create cold chain facility, which will be of the level created for the pulse polio vaccine. During a review of arrangements being put in place for the vaccine, he said that an extremely tight security plan should be made for the vaccine when it is under storage, as is in place for EVMs around elections. Yogi also directed officials to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in Lucknow, Meerut, Varanasi, Kanpur, Jhansi, Ghaziabad and Gorakhpur since the number of cases is high in these districts. The CM told officials to strengthen the surveillance and contact tracing mechanisms so that the spread of the virus can be contained. On Tuesday, chief secretary RK Tiwari also chaired a meeting with senior administrative officials for preparing a security plan for the vaccine. He directed officials to prepare an action plan for safe transportation and storage of the vaccine at the district and division levels and submit it to his office within the next two days. Tiwari said that a training programme for the health workers, who would be instrumental in disbursal of the vaccine, should also be made available. “The chief secretary has said that all arrangements should be made for the safety of the vaccine by coordinating with the police department, so that the vaccine can be made available to the people in a systematic manner. He has asked for a detailed action plan for Covid vaccination, its storage, distribution to be prepared at the earliest,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recreate-pulse-polio-infra-for-vaccine-cm/articleshow/79633505.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Bio E in pact with Ohio university for measles virus-based Covid-19 vaccine technology||HYDERABAD: Biopharma player Biological E Limited (BE) has entered into an exclusive agreement with Ohio State Innovation Foundation (OSIF) for licencing the latter’s Covid-19 vaccine technology that uses novel live attenuated measles virus strains. Biological E will take up evaluation, further development and commercialization of the Covid-19 vaccine candidates, from which a viable vaccine is expected to be available for commercial use only by 2022, BioE Holdings Inc director Narender Dev Mantena, who heads BE’s novel vaccine initiative, told TOI. BioE Holdings Inc is a subsidiary of Hyderabad-based Biological E. The Covid-19 vaccine candidates licenced by Bio E are live attenuated recombinant viral vectored vaccines based on measles vaccine strains that were developed in the laboratories of Jianrong Li and Stefan Niewiesk at the Ohio State University College of Veterinary Medicine. The technology utilizes the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein as a target protein for the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates, generating a series of attenuated recombinant measles viruses (rMeVs) expressing SARS-CoV-2 antigens. The rMeV-based SARs-CoV-2 vaccine candidates have proceeded through proof-of-concept trials in multiple animal models – demonstrating successful production of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies, Biological E said. According to Mantena, the company expects these efforts to result in a vaccine that will be more suitable for children and will substitute the existing measles vaccine with one offering protection against both, measles and Covid-19. “With this licensing transaction, we have expanded the repertoire of the candidate vaccines that we are evaluating, both in terms of the antigen and the platform technology,” Mantena added. “Translating this vaccine platform into the hands of a global vaccine company for further evaluation and development is a critical step and we are excited that Biological E has taken on this role,” said Dr Patrick Green, associate dean for research and graduate studies, Ohio State University College of Veterinary Medicine. Bio E already has a tie-up with Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, and Dynavax of US for developing a recombinant protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate that is currently undergoing Phase I/II human trials in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bio-e-in-pact-with-ohio-univ-for-measles-virus-based-covid-19-vaccine-technology/articleshow/79632113.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Proud of ayurveda, but can’t allow mixopathy, says IMA||Nagpur: Doctors of modern medicine attached to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nagpur branch, gathered at prominent squares on Tuesday morning to protest against mixing of allopathic surgeries with Ayurveda. This activity was part of the nationwide protest organized by the IMA national to condemn the notification issued by the central council of Indian medicine (CCIM) which claims that Ayurveda doctors will now be trained in surgery and will be allowed to conduct 58 types of surgeries which used to be the forte of allopathic practitioners till date. “IMA is not against Ayurveda. Our contention is that such mixing of different pathy will be detrimental to patients as well as Ayurveda will not grow,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of Nagpur IMA. The protests were held statewide and all 200-plus branches of IMA in Maharashtra participated. According to the official release by the state IMA, 45,000 members of IMA from 219 branches in Maharashtra participated in the public protest. Groups of 5 doctors staged public demonstrations in about 400 cities and towns in Maharashtra. 5,000 MBBS students from 36 medical colleges in Maharashtra and 10,000 postgraduate PG junior doctors also participated. The movement in Maharashtra was supported by 34 specialist organizations such as eye association, nose and throat surgeons, stomach surgeons, physicians' association, paediatricians’ association and urinary tract association, gynaecology association (FOGSI). IMA has called for closure of all the non-emergency services in dispensaries, clinics and OPD services on December 11 from 6am to 6pm. However, essential services will be excluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/proud-of-ayurveda-but-cant-allow-mixopathy-says-ima/articleshow/79632000.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rs 280 crore bill: Ahmedabad civic body stops quota-bed acquisition||AHMEDABAD: In May, the AMC requisitioned 1,745 beds in 74 designated Covid hospitals, but since then the corporation has not added a single bed to its quota — thanks to the Rs 280 crore bill. The bills, received till December 1, from private hospitals have hit the AMC’s resources. The corporation has already paid Rs 255 crore of the total; the remaining amount is being processed. Officials said that earlier there was a delay of nearly 10 to 15 days in clearing the bills, because they were first processed at the zonal level and then forwarded to the AMC’s finance department. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, the president of the AHNA (Ahmedabad Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association), said that member hospitals now have had a good experience with the AMC over the requisition of hospitals. “The payments are regular and overall the coordination is satisfactory,” Dr Gadhvi said. “Those are the prerequisites for smooth functioning of the healthcare system during the pandemic.” Another member of the association said: “Initially, there was a delay of over a month after which several private hospitals refused to admit patients.” He added: “But now things are in place and there is no delay. In some cases the bills are cleared within a week of producing them at the zonal office.” AMC officials said that so far the corporation has ended up spending over Rs 400 crore, which includes SVP Hospital expenses. The officials said that in May, the corporation had 2,074 beds where Covid patients were sent. In all, the city has 106 designated Covid hospitals. “Since May, the city has designated 32-odd Covid hospitals but not a single bed was acquired for the AMC quota,” an official said. “The reason was that the bills of private hospitals were proving to be a burden.” He further said that when there was a need for increasing Covid beds in the city, 100 beds were reserved at Gandhinagar Civil Hospital while more beds were added in SVP Hospital. But no private beds were added, he said. “Officials are now of the opinion that there cannot be free treatment for a long duration as the AMC is required to pay even for keeping a bed vacant,” a senior officer said. “The corporation believes those wanting free treatment will have the options of SVP, Civil, and Sola Civil if all private beds of the AMC quota are full.” Another officer said that earlier people wanted to be treated at SVP Hospital or Civil Hospital. By November, the preference shifted to care at private hospitals, even without the AMC quota. The officer said the reason could be that infection hotspots were by then emerging in the posh west, in areas such as Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Thaltej, and Bopal. People of these areas wanted to be treated at private hospitals. The officer said that there has been a jump in the number of people getting tested at private labs. The spike was over 200% in November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-280-cr-bill-municipal-corporation-stops-quota-bed-acquisition/articleshow/79632130.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Viral infection suspected to be culprit behind ‘mystery’ disease in Eluru||Neurologists suspect that the culprit behind the ‘mystery’ disease in Eluru town could be a viral infection. Telangana and AP usually witness a spurt in viral infections related to the brain between September and January every year, said Dr P Ranganadham, senior neurosurgeon at Hyderabad’s Sunshine Hospitals adding that the causative agent behind the Eluru disease could be a virus. It could be viral encephalitis or a mutated strain of the novel coronavirus, as Covid-19 is known to affect any organ in the body. Dr Ranganadham told TOI that a thorough research study should be conducted with an open mind to pinpoint the causative agent for this sudden ailment. “The patients should be subjected to EEG and MRI scan if nothing suspicious is found in the CT scan of the brain. Samples of blood and cerebral-spinal fluid collected from the patients should be analysed at the National Institute of Virology (NIV) to find out the virus, if any,” he opined. The neurosurgeon, who was earlier associated with AIIMS and NIMS, ruled out possibility of mass hysteria or an episode of urban legend as patients presented themselves with clinical symptoms. He also ruled out lead poisoning as symptoms related to it are not present in patients in Eluru. He, however, did not rule out role of some pesticide or toxin that could have entered the body through water. He said the symptoms resembled those triggered by a virus hitting the central nervous system. “From experience I suspect it could be a virus and not bacterial infection,” he said. Dr Rakesh Kakkar, medical superintendent of AIIMS Mangalagiri, too suspected that water contaminated by virus or some toxin could have been the possible trigger. He said more samples have been sent for analysis and the exact cause could be known only after biological and chemical analysis reports are received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/viral-infection-suspected-to-be-culprit-behind-mystery-disease/articleshow/79630570.cms||Syed Akbar
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Eluru ‘mystery’ disease: Central teams join local depts in investigation||VIJAYAWADA: Both Centre and state government are now focused on identifying the cause behind the disease which has struck residents within and around Eluru Municipal Corporation (EMC). Special teams from the World Health Organisation (WHO), AIIMS and others deployed by the Centre have interacted with local healthcare professionals in Eluru to assess the health of patients. A two-member team from WHO toured Eluru to understand the ground-level situation. They verified samples of milk which they said did not turn up any considerable anomalies. State health authorities briefed the visiting teams over the situation and explained the treatment procedures. A four-member team from the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) was also deployed to check samples of milk and food for possible contamination. Investigations performed by healthcare experts have revealed traces of pesticide in drinking water. Dr Jamshed Nayar, associate professor of emergency medicine at AIIMS, New Delhi; Dr Avinash Deoshtawar, virologist at NIV, Pune; and NCDC deputy director for public health Dr Sanket Kulkarni were among those who visited Eluru on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/central-teams-join-local-depts-in-investigation/articleshow/79630681.cms||Venu Lanka
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Govt declares admission schedule for engg, pharma and MBA||Nagpur: After an inordinate delay, the Maharashtra government’s common entrance test (CET) cell released the schedule for engineering (BE/BTech), pharmacy (BPharm/PharmD) and management (MBA/MMS) admissions on Tuesday. Lakhs of aspirants for all these professional courses were eagerly waiting for the schedule as it was already delayed by about four months due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. As per the new schedule, admissions for engineering and pharmacy courses would commence from Wednesday while MBA admissions started on Tuesday itself. Considering the pandemic situation, the competent authorities decided to introduce the concept of ‘E-Scrutiny’ for documents’ verification process. “The entire process of filling up forms, uploading documents and registration would be done online. Candidates don’t need to visit the designated centres personally like last year. The verification of documents would be done by the officials through E-Scrutiny centres only,” the CET cell’s notification mentioned. Aspirants of undergraduate engineering and pharmacy were earlier worried as the government failed to release the schedule even after one and half months of completion of MHT-CET. The admissions, which should have commenced from July-August, are already delayed due to the pandemic. This time, the government has reduced the eligibility criteria for engineering and pharmacy admission from 50% in class 12th to 45%, in view of the pandemic situation. Aspirants just need to have a non-zero score in MHT-CET. City-based joint director for technical education Ram Nibudey informed that the candidates need to get the admission form online for Rs800 (Rs600 for reserved category). As per the schedule, online registration, uploading of documents and their verification would continue till December 15 for engineering admissions. The provisional merit list would be displayed on CET Cell’s website on December 18 and final one on December 22 after clearing objections. The online submissions for the first round would begin from December 23 and the provisional allotment list would be uploaded on December 28. Students need to report to their colleges by December 29 to 31 after which the second round admissions would commence. Academic activities would begin in colleges from January 4 while the deadline for all admissions would be January 14. # Engineering admission schedule * Online registration & uploading documents — Dec 9-15 * Verification of documents & confirmation — Dec 9-16 * Display of provisional merit list on website — Dec 18 * Submission of objections on merit list — Dec 19-20 * Display of final merit list — December 22 * Online submission for CAP Round 1 — Dec 23-25 * Provisional allotment for Round 1 — Dec 28 * Accepting seat in students’ login — Dec 29-31 * Reporting to allotted seat & fee payment — Dec 29-31 * Display of vacant seats for CAP Round 2 — Jan 1 * Online submission for CAP Round 2 — Jan 2-4 * Provisional allotment for Round 2 — Jan 6 * Accepting seat in students’ login — Jan 7-9 * Reporting to allotted seat & fee payment — Jan 7-9 * Commencement of academic activities — Jan 4 * Vacant seats display at govt/aided institutes — Jan 10-14 * Cut-off date for all admissions for 2020-21 — Jan 14 * Deadline for college to upload admission data — Jan 15||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-declares-admission-schedule-for-engg-pharma-and-mba/articleshow/79631788.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Maha gang held for stealing mobiles from Miyapur store||Hyderabad: An inter-state gang, which stole mobile phones from a showroom in Miyapur, was nabbed from Maharashtra. Cyberabad police have recovered 113 of the stolen 119 phones from their possession. The accused allegedly conspired to sell the stolen phones on an e-commerce website. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said Mohammed Tabreq Dawud Shaik, Farhan Mumtaz Shaik, Rasheed Mohammed Rafeeq Shaik, Sufian Shaik and Raju Pandurang were arrested for forcibly opening the showroom’s shutter and stealing mobiles at Miyapur in the wee hours of November 14. They also stole a few liquor bottles from a wine shop in Kukatpally. Officials said some of the accused, who had previous criminal record, came to the city from Maharashtra by changing the number plate with Andhra Pradesh registration number. While returning, they again changed the number plate to Maharashtra number. Based on CCTV footage and analysing their modus operandi, police got the first lead that it could be a Maharashtra gang since similar offences were committed by them in the past at Pune, Surat and other locations. “We got information that the accused passed through Solapur toll plaza in the vehicle, which was used in commissioning of the offence, and were moving towards Mumbai. Immediately, Miyapur crime team and SOT team tracked the offenders towards Mumbai. Further enquiry revealed that the offenders were Tabrez Farhan, Rafeeq and Sufian,’’ Sajjanar said. Cyberabad SOT officials with the help of anti-extortion cell crime branch, Mumbai, apprehended Tabrez and Raju on November 24. Subsequently, the other accused were nabbed in the last 10 days. “In the past too, the accused, after stealing mobile phones from different electronic stores, had sold them on e-commerce websites,” police said. During investigations, police picked up the owner of the car who stays in Vile Parle. The owner told that his driver Farhan Shaikh had taken some passengers to Surat. But during the study of his call detail records and mobile tower location, he was found in Cyberabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maha-gang-held-for-stealing-mobiles-from-miyapur-store/articleshow/79632126.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: 150 mobile towers to come up in tribal areas||VISAKHAPATNAM: Plans to provide better communication in tribal areas have started gathering momentum with government authorities now calling for tenders to set up as many as 150 mobile towers. The move, while geared towards providing better connectivity, also aims to aims to counter Maoist violence in tribal pockets. The Visakhapatnam Agency area has a population of around five lakh across 11 mandals with most mandal headquarters connected via the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) network. In recent times, Reliance Jio has set up towers in the area with Airtel now also planning to follow suit according to local sources. The service provider is planning to set up one tower in each mandal headquarters by sharing towers with BSNL. Visakha Rural SP Boddepalli Krishna Rao confirmed to TOI that the proposal of setting up new mobile towers is at the tenders stage. “It was an old proposal but it has now gathered pace. If the communication network is built up in interior pockets, we can provide better services especially medical services to people in these areas,” he said. BSNL had planned to set up 60 cell towers across the tribal belt with the assistance of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) through a private agency. It has already set up 39 towers and is identifying spaces for a few more. Service providers were hesitant with fears of Maoist attacks but the police has come forward to provide them space and protection. Most cell towers are within the premises of police stations while some at police outposts at Rudakota, Nurmati, Pedavalasa and Rallagedda. Earlier, militants have been noted to set ablaze such towers to register their protest but this is now being opposed by locals, especially the youth, who are now demanding more mobile towers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/150-mobile-towers-to-come-up-in-tribal-areas/articleshow/79630827.cms||Siva G
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Search for new DU VC: Seven names suggested for panel||NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s executive council (EC) on Tuesday suggested seven names for two positions in the search committee for the selection of DU’s new vice-chancellor. The meeting also cleared a proposal to set up Centre for Himalayan Studies, a multidisciplinary research facility to study the Himalayas’ history, geography, societies and related fields. After many years, various departments such as Arabic, economics, history and biochemistry got departmental heads for a tenure of three years. During the tenure of the suspended vice-chancellor, Yogesh Tyagi, these appointments were renewed every few months. With the elected EC members raising the issue of absorption of ad hoc teachers, the chairperson, acting vice-chancellor P C Joshi, promised to set up a committee to look into the matter. This long-standing demand had last year led to protests with teachers occupying the vice-regal lodge on the DU premises. There is an urgent need to set up a centre for Himalayan studies as “the Himalayan ecosystem is under threat due to climate change and various anthropogenic activities”, the proposal for the centre stated. “Poverty, loss of biodiversity, overexploitation of resources are some of the major concerns at the moment.” “In a day or two, the two names for the search committee will be released. One will be a nominee of the Visitor,” said dean of colleges Balram Pani, who chaired this part of the meeting as the acting VC recused himself. An advertisement for the new VC’s appointment has already been released. Law Faculty’s proposal to not distribute study materials to LLB/LLM students was also cleared. The faculty had argued that the materials were now available online. However, a note of observation was submitted by EC members that it would pose difficulty for visually impaired and underprivileged students. In the meeting, Joshi was given the designation of senior professorship and became the first senior-most teacher at DU to get it. “UGC had said the university should have senior professorship. Our university adopted it... Joshi retires in May 2021,” said J L Gupta, an EC member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/search-for-new-du-vc-seven-names-suggested-for-panel/articleshow/79632133.cms||Shradha Chettri
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||HC heeds G’chiroli kids’ letter on net, power woes||Nagpur: About 10 students of various schools in the city, who hail from remote villages in backward Gadchiroli district, have written to the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court stating that they are not able to attend online tutorials due to various issues like lack of electricity and Internet connectivity.The letters addressed to the senior administrative judge at Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court prayed for finding a solution to their problems as hundreds of students like them are facing the same issues.Taking suo motu cognisance of the letters, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote has directed HC registry to treat the issue as public interest litigation (PIL). The case was listed for hearing on Wednesday but couldn’t be taken up till the end. Now, it may come up for hearing in the remaining days of this week or next week.The registry has made centre and state government’s departments as respondents in the PIL apart from Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL). It included the Union Ministry of Education’s principal secretary along with Maharashtra government’s School Education and Rural Development departments.According to assistant solicitor general of India, Ulhas Aurangabadkar, who represents the Union ministry, the court would now appoint amicus curiae for drafting the petition in proper format and then it would be heard at length.Government pleader Sumant Deopujari, who will be pleading on behalf of state departments, said the students had requested the judiciary to look into their plight.The registry has attached a government resolution (GR) on ‘Mission Begin Again’ where instructions for operating the schools amid Covid-19 pandemic were issued.According to the aggrieved students comprising boys and girls from various classes, they hail from poor families. All of them have been stuck in their remote villages in the Naxal-hit district since the lockdown was announced in March. They haven’t returned to the cities due to risk of getting infected by Covid-19. Though the schools have started online classes, these students can hardly attend them and can’t even come back to Nagpur till physical classes resume.With the government extending lockdown till December 31, they would continue to miss the online classes till next year and also the examinations conducted by their respective schools. Some of them are admitted to CBSE schools while a girl studies in a school in Bramhapuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-heeds-gchiroli-kids-letter-on-net-power-woes/articleshow/79650791.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Implementation of 7th pay panel for NMC staff cleared by MVA govt||Nagpur: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has approved implementation of the 7th pay commission for employees and officials of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). The state urban development department sent an order to this effect to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. A senior official from NMC’s accounts and finance office said at present the NMC spends Rs50 crore towards salary of employees, and added the move will increase the civic body’s financial burden by almost Rs10-15 crore every month. The decision will benefit approximately 10,900 employees and officials. NMC employees and officials will also get arrears of 15 months, as the revised pay commission will be applicable from September 1, 2019. The MVA government has also set the conditions that NMC’s establishment cost should not fall below 35%, and that its revenue should increase. With approximately 8,400 employees (excluding 4,000 daily wagers), the NMC’s establishment cost is currently about 50%. A delegation of NMC employees’ union led by its president Surendra Thingne, treasurer Pravin Satrapaye, general secretary Ranjan Nagode, leader of opposition in NMC Tanaji Wanve and Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe was campaigning in Mumbai for the implementation of the 7th pay commission. “District guardian minister Nitin Raut played a key role in arranging meetings with urban minister Eknath Shinde and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” said Thingne. The state government has also clarified it will not provide any financial grant for implementation of the revised pay commission. NMC should also ensure that while implementing the revised pay commission recommendations, development works and loans taken for carrying out various projects should be taken care of, the order said. The civic body will also have to bring 100% properties under its tax ambit before December-end. It should also ensure that it achieves the target of 90% property tax collection of this financial year by March-end. It has also been asked to collect at least 50% of the property tax arrears by the end of this financial year. The order said NMC should utilize 90% of water tax revenue for improvement of water supply and its allied works. Sources in NMC said the development is a jolt for the incumbent BJP. On August 8, 2019, following the NMC general body’s nod, the civic administration had sought state government’s approval to implement seventh pay commission for its staff. But the-then Devendra Fadnavis government had kept the implementation of the revised pay commission in the civic body on hold, seeking information about NMC’s establishment expenditure and income from various sources before implementing it. Fadnavis kept putting off the long-pending demand of NMC employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/implementation-of-7th-pay-panel-for-nmc-staff-cleared-by-mva-govt/articleshow/79631829.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Age no bar: Granny runs 100km marathon in 12 hours, wins gold||Lucknow: Four months ago, she was hospitalised following a life-threatening car accident in the United States, and left with a broken shoulder. The result was a surgery to put fractured and dislocated bones in place. Not long after, she ran her maiden ultra-marathon (100 km) on Sunday and achieved the uncommon feat of completing it. Meet 55-year-old Asha Singh, the only woman in the 100km open race where participants had to complete 240 rounds of the track of PAC Stadium, Mahanagar. Among the seven runners, a 22-year-old man was the youngest while Asha was the senior-most. Being the only one in the women’s category and because Asha finished the race—in 12 hours and 33 seconds—she was awarded the gold medal. The run was organised by a fitness and wellness group in Lucknow. Though she has 90 competitive races with 50 half-marathons (21.1km) and 25 full marathons (42.2km) under her belt, the latest 100km race was Asha’s first ever stadium run. “I had always dreamt of running long races. This was the reason why I was keen on running this despite a major hand injury,” said Asha, who has a three-year-old grandson and one-month-old granddaughter. A resident of Eldeco Udyan on Rae Bareli Road, Asha’s first run was in 2016 at the age of 51, following a suggestion from her son’s friend. “I was visiting my son in Pune, when his friend casually asked us to participate in a 10km run,” said Asha, who also accompanied her husband Col (retd) Bajrang Singh in the 2020 Boston Marathon Virtual Experience, where he finished first in the above 60 category among Indian participants. On her 100km run, Asha said, “It was smooth till around 70km, after which I started to lose speed. As I crossed the finishing line and created a personal record in ultra-running, the entire stadium buzzed with claps.” Asha’s husband Singh, who discovered his passion for running, said, “She’s made of steel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/age-no-bar-granny-runs-100km-marathon-in-12-hours-wins-gold/articleshow/79633512.cms||Isha Jain
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Five-year bond for in-service diploma course in child health||Lucknow: In its bid to provide more child specialists mainly for management of encephalitis, the state government is launching the second edition of the diploma course in child health. Started in 2016, the second batch of this programme will have 20 seats, according to officials at the state health directorate. While the opportunity allows doctors in the existing health services to undertake specialist education, it also makes them fill a bond of five years. As per relevant terms and conditions of the scheme, any doctor who leaves the government health services after completion of the course in a period of five years will have to submit two year’s salary to the state exchequer. Officials stated that the two-year diploma in child health course will be provided at the BRD Medical College of Gorakhpur. The doctors trained will be deployed in the encephalitis affected districts of the state. The opportunity is open to government doctors below 45 years of age and those enrolled will have to clear the exam in not more than two attempts and within two years’ time. Officials also clarified that the application of those who applied for the government sponsored diploma course in the past but were not selected or those who left the course mid-way will not be considered for a period of three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/five-year-bond-for-in-service-diploma-course-in-child-health/articleshow/79633507.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||EFLU VC lodges police plaint||Hyderabad: English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad (EFLU) vice-chancellor (VC) Professor Suresh Kumar lodged a complaint with the assistant commissioner of police, central crime station, Hyderabad of some miscreants sending out emails under his name through a fake email ID. According to a press release issued by EFLU, the VC reported that such emails were received by the university staff at the Hyderabad campus and those at the regional campuses of the university at Shillong and Lucknow. The VC urged the cyber-crime division to take appropriate legal action against the perpetrators and urged the recipients not to respond to such suspicious emails. “The VC informed that fake emails are being sent out to different people which are defamatory in nature. We will look into the matter,” said KVM Prasad, Hyderabad assistant commissioner of police (cyber-crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eflu-vc-lodges-police-plaint/articleshow/79632128.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Eluru mystery disease: Families rush out to nearby cities, traders hike bottled water prices||VIJAYAWADA: With the unknown illness spreading rapidly among locals in Eluru, many are now trying to leave the city. Several families have already shifted to their relatives’ and friends’ homes in other cities following the atmosphere that has gripped the city. As suspicion grew that consumption of contaminated water supplied by the municipal administration was the chief cause of the disease, demand rose among locals for packaged drinking water. Authorities took action against traders who had increased prices of RO-purified water. Families with senior citizens and young children have especially been worried and are among the largest groups leaving the city. “We have seen three of our neighbours fall sick suddenly. Their situation turned worse and they had to be admitted to the hospital. Doctors failed to identify the reason for actual sickness. We have two old-aged persons and three kids in my family. We have moved to our relatives home in Vijayawada,” said K Vasanthi, a resident of Senivarapu Peta of Eluru. “Many of my neighbours took similar decisions as nothing matters more than our health,” she added. However, people moving out of the city has led cab operators to allegedly increase their fares with some drivers charging over Rs 5,000 for a 70-kilometre trip to Vijayawada city. “A two-way trip to Vijayawada usually costs around Rs 2,500 but now cab drivers are taking advantage of the situation and looting passengers. I had to pay Rs 6,000 for a trip after many drivers denied service. The government should take a strict view of the issue,” said M Prasanth, a resident of Thurpu Veedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/families-rush-out-to-nearby-cities-traders-hike-bottled-water-prices/articleshow/79630605.cms||Venu Lanka
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Eluru mystery disease: Andhra CM calls for probe into high lead content||AMARAVATI: Responding to initial reports of AIIMS finding abnormal levels of lead and nickel chemical elements in blood samples drawn from patients of the mysterious disease that has struck Eluru, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday asked officials to investigate the reasons that led to the situation. The CM enquired about the condition of the patients admitted to different hospitals from Eluru town and the latest situation with the senior officials. Officials told the CM that IICT officials were also visiting to study reasons for the illness. They said the IICT investigation reports were expected in a couple of days. Jagan directed senior officials to provide best possible healthcare to all patients and asked them to submit a report along the findings of different agencies to him by Wednesday. He wanted officials to submit details of the investigations carried out on milk and water samples taken from the most-affected colonies in Eluru town. The CM will hold a video-conference with senior officials, researchers on Wednesday to take further remedial measures. “The health department should coordinate with other line departments and immediately find out why lead and nickel compounds were in high levels among the locals and what measures should be taken to immediately bring down them to normal,” said Jagan. He said that they should also coordinate with central research teams and take measures to get the reports as early as possible so that they would take steps to ease the situation. The chief minister told officials to deploy additional teams of doctors to provide 24x7 medical assistance to Eluru patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/eluru-mystery-cm-calls-for-probe-into-high-lead-content/articleshow/79630650.cms||Samdani MN
December 9, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man shares wife’s picture on escort services websites||VADODARA: A woman working in an information technology company in Kalali lodged a complaint against her husband and in-laws after her husband allegedly uploaded her photos on matrimonial websites and escort services portal. The woman Priya Singh, who lives on Waghodiya Road with her parents, told police that her husband Prakash shared her photo on four different matrimonial websites following a rift between them in February. She alleged that Prakash shared the photos when she was living with her parents. After Priya got the photos off the matrimonial websites, Prakash uploaded her photo on an escort services website following which she had approached cyber crime police station. She also alleged that Prakash spread misinformation about her among her friends and colleagues too. In a complaint of cruelty, assault and criminal intimidation at Makarpura police station, Priya also alleged that not only Prakash assaulted her, his parents and younger brother too harassed her over petty issues. Police said that the harassment started soon after the couple’s wedding in November 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-shares-wifes-pic-on-escort-services-websites/articleshow/79630496.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Stray dog tears off bike seat, killed in Madhapar||RAJKOT: Venting his ire on a stray dog for tearing off his brother’s leather bike seat, a man beat a stray dog to death in Manharpura village in Madhapar. Accused Dilip Gohil killed the dog on December 6 and an offence was registered against him at University police station on Monday by his neighbour. Gohil’s neighbour Kajal Talsaniya told the cops that upon seeing Gohil hitting the dog with a pipe on December 6, she tried to reason with him and stop the atrocity on the animal. Instead of letting the dog off, Gohil allegedly started to argue with Talsaniya about the torn bike seat, continuing with his violence. Talsaniya went away, but on Monday when the civic body officials arrived near Gohil’s house to pick up the dog’s carcass, they inquired about its death. Talsaniya told them that she had seen Gohil beating the dog and that could be the reason for his death. The civic body officials approached the police and based on Talsaniya’s complaint an offence under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act was registered against Gohil. Cops are yet to arrest the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stray-dog-tears-off-bike-seat-killed/articleshow/79630807.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hosps witness less footfall of patients||Hyderabad: Patient footfall remained very low in most hospitals in the city owing to the bandh, as people refrained from visiting hospitals due to the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. At the state-run Gandhi Hospital, less than 500 outpatient cases were seen while in the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) too, similar number of patients were recorded. Acording to sources, even private hospitals recorded 40% to 50% less footfall on Tuesday morning. The less footfall of patients resulted in smooth working of the hospitals due to less workload. However, emergency cases were not stopped anywhere by protestors. At several protest locations where roads were blocked by the protestors, ambulances, private vehicles and even autorickshaws carrying patients were allowed to pass. In one such instance, a patient carrying a file of a private hospitals was allowed to pass in an autorickshaw at the Cyber Towers Junction where a huge dharna was organised to observe the Bharat Bandh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hosps-witness-less-footfall-of-patients/articleshow/79632132.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||No relief to govt on Dharani yet, says HC||Hyderabad: Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the government to file its counter by December 10 on the supplementary pleas filed by petitioner Gopal Sharma and others who challenged the three recent GOs brought in by the state to support the mutation of non-agricultural property records through Dharani portal. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while extending the restraint order imposed on registrations through Dharani portal till that time. When advocate general BS Prasad urged the court to vacate the stay, the bench made it clear that they restrained the activity through Dharani because they are hearing the challenges made to the new system. “We have not restrained the authorities from proceeding with the registrations in the old mode,” the bench said. “As far as Dharani is concerned, you have to convince us on the safety measures taken to protect the data and privacy of individuals if they transact through Dharani,” the bench said and posted the case to Dec 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-relief-to-govt-on-dharani-yet-says-hc/articleshow/79632140.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Protect couple from their daughters, Allahabad high court tells DM||LUCKNOW: A Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has sought the state government’s reply on the measures taken for the establishment of the tribunal and appellate tribunal under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007, and rules framed under it for welfare and protection of senior citizens in Uttar Pradesh. The HC order came while directing Lucknow district magistrate to take immediate action to protect a retired senior scientist and his wife from their daughters, who are allegedly harassing them to claim the couple’s property. Passing the order, a bench of Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Saurabh Lavania directed Lucknow DM to submit the action taken report within six weeks. Petitioners, Krishna Pal Singh, 70, a retired scientist, and his wife, had alleged that their two daughters and their husbands were threatening to grab their house in Aliganj. The children had even locked some rooms in the house and allowed an outsider to stay in the house. The couple also alleged that many strangers were visiting the house and this posed threat to their lives. “We moved Aliganj police and even the DM but no action was taken,” the couple stated in the petition. They urged the court that the DM should ensure their peaceful possession of the house and take appropriate action. Taking the issue of harassment of seniors citizens seriously, the bench also enquired from the government about the steps taken to comply with an Allahabad HC order whereby it had directed the state to implement the provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act. The Allahabad HC in its October 2017 order had granted three months to issue notification for establishment of tribunal and appellate tribunal, designate maintenance officer, establish old age homes, constitute district committee of senior citizens and take appropriate measures to give wide publicity in media and to sensitize the public and police officers and employees of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/protect-couple-from-their-daughters-hc-tells-dm/articleshow/79633520.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Slight spike in Covid-19 count as Telangana reports 682 cases||HYDERABAD: Health authorities on Tuesday said they are noticing a slight increase in Covid-19 cases in Telangana, as the state recorded 682 cases and three deaths. The number of people under medication in the state is 7,696 in hospitals and at home, while 2,65,367 patients in the state have recovered from the coronavirus infection. “A rise in cases is being seen over the last two to three days now. Even in districts, there is a spike being noticed and with the latest round of protests on Tuesday where many mass gatherings happened, there is all the more threat of a further increase in cases. The usage of masks and other Covid precautions is reducing day by day,” said a senior official from the state health department. With the latest numbers, the total count of cases in the state stood at 2,74,540 while the death toll stood at 1,477. With 55,645 tests conducted in the state on Tuesday, the positivity rate was recorded to be 1.22 percent. The number of Covid-19 deaths has been well under control in the state with less than 1 death per 200 patients recorded for a while now. As a result, the case fatality rate (CFR) in the state is stable at 0.53 percent, which is lower than the country average of 1.5 percent. The recovery rate in the state has further improved to 97 percent as per the latest reports. On Tuesday the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 119 new cases. This was followed by 64 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 47 cases in Ranga Reddy, 38 cases in Khammam and 30 cases in Karimnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/slight-spike-in-covid-19-count-as-t-reports-682-cases/articleshow/79632136.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech vax phase 1 trials in Jan||Hyderabad: Even as Covaxin awaits the Indian authorities’ nod for emergency use authorisation (EUA), Bharat Biotech expects the Phase I/II clinical trials of its intranasal Covid-19 vaccine candidate to commence by January. The novel chimp-adenovirus based intranasal vaccine under development with the Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, is expected to have a faster clinical trials schedule as it is a single dose vaccine, Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella said during a virtual chat with Biocon CMD Kiran Mazumdar Shaw at the TiE Global Entrepreneurship Summit. “I think it will enter Phase I probably next month and because it will be a single dose vaccine the clinical trial process is also going to be faster,” Ella said at the session on `Delivering the vaccine, the big opportunity’. The Phase I trials of the vaccine will be held at Saint Louis University, while Bharat Biotech will conduct further stages of the trials in India and distribute it globally, excluding USA, Europe and Japan. He said the intranasal vaccine will offer not just an easier and quicker delivery mechanism as it will require just two nasal drops to be administered, it will also be more eco-friendly than the injectable vaccines as the company plans to have multi-dose vials with just disposable dropper tips to prevent cross contamination during vaccination. On manufacturing capacities, Ella said the company is adding two more facilities to ramp up its Covid-19 vaccines capacity but the supply of the inactivated virus vaccine Covaxin will be limited to 300-400 million doses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-vax-phase-1-trials-in-jan/articleshow/79632156.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||ASI set to ‘restore’ 400-year-old casket of St Xavier from Thursday||PANAJI: After refusing permission for the four centuries-old Mastrillian casket of St Francis Xavier to be restored in Florence, Italy, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is set to itself begin restoration work on Thursday — a task that will take one-and-a-half month. The project is being undertaken by the ASI’s Aurangabad unit, who are “specialists in conservation”, after ASI’s head office ordered that the work be done in India itself. The ASI had earlier shot down the Church’s proposal to send the iconic casket to Italy for restoration. In 2018, a team of experts from the Opificio delle Pietre Dure e Laboratori di Restauro di Firenze, who studied the artefacts from May 27 to June 3, stated that the casket must be attended to on top priority, or it would fall apart within the next ten years. The plan was to send it there, and get it back in time for the saint’s feast in 2019. However, the ASI ordered that the treatment be done by their own “specialists” in India. Rector of the Basilica Fr Patricio Fernandes had then called the ASI’s chemical branch “incompetent”, and who “weren’t able to restore paintings properly”. He had said that ASI can’t undertake this kind of job, that involves “something that is so precious, historically important and sentimental”. Fernandes said that the studio in Florence had the right equipment, and that the experts had agreed to do the work for free, with only the transportation cost having to be borne. Earlier this year, the Church’s plan seemed to be gaining some support from the government, with minister Michael Lobo and Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar both pushing for sending the casket to Italy for a professional restoration. However, these plans failed to materialise. Now, the work that begins on Thursday will take a month and a half to complete, and will be done at the Basilica itself, under strict security, Fernandes told TOI. Thus, the church will be closed for visitors after the 8am Mass. The silver casket containing St Xavier’s relics was taken in procession to the Basilica from St Paul’s college on February 19, 1634, two years after he was declared saint and patron of Goa, Fernandes said. The casket’s name refers to Fr Marcello Mastrilli, who is believed to have revived from death through the intercession of St Xavier. He came to Goa in December 1635 on his way to Japan, and upon seeing the silver casket, he ordered a new silver covering for the coffin, which was completed in time for the feast in 1637, Fernandes said. The mausoleum was placed in the St Francis Xavier chapel on November 8, 1698, and on top of it was placed the Mastrillian casket. Because of this special attraction that year, thousands of pilgrims flocked to the feast on December 3, 1698. Since then, nothing much has been documented about the conservation or restoration of the Mastrillian casket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/asi-set-to-restore-400-year-old-casket-of-st-xavier-from-thu/articleshow/79633533.cms||Lisa Monteiro
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Post-Covid complications may take toll on your heart||Lucknow: Recovery from coronavirus infection may not be the end of the battle as stroke and heart issues, along with breathlessness due to fibrosis, have emerged as major post-Covid complications. Doctors in the city are being approached by Covid-19 survivors who have developed problems like inflammation in the outer wall of the heart, clotting and change in heart’s rhythm. Experts said novel coronavirus has the ability to clump up blood cells and form clots with drop in temperature. High blood pressure may aggrevate such problems. They said while large clots can cause heart attacks, smaller ones may inflame pericardium (the outer wall of the heart) and change heart rhythm. These clots can also affect neurological system and cause strokes by blocking blood flow to the brain. Such problems increase in non-Covid patients as well during winters but health issues may increase among survivors. Medical superintendent of Covid Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), Prof Srikesh Singh said, “Earlier, most patients with post-Covid complications had lung or respiratory problem but after the temperature started dropping, Covid survivors are also complaining of heart and neuro-related issues. Most patients had issues earlier also but novel coronavirus infection damaged organs further.” “We are receiving 2-3 such cases daily,” he added. Cardiologist at Balrampur Hospital Dr Praveen Kumar Sharma said, “We are getting 3-4 such patients daily. After recovering from Covid-19, people are developing inflammation in the outer heart wall, changes in heart rhythm or heart attack.” Cardiologist at KGMU Prof Akshaya Pradhan said, “During winters, heart patients have high blood pressure issues. If novel coronavirus damages heart muscles or causes clotting, it takes time to heal fully after recovery.” Medical superintendent KGMU, Dr D Himanshu, who is also a Covid-19 specialist, said: “So far, connection between weather and post-Covid complication has not been established, but out of over 1,500 Covid-19 patients treated at KGMU so far, 20-30% already had heart and neurological issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/post-covid-complications-may-take-toll-on-your-heart/articleshow/79633534.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||High lead, pesticides in water caused illness: AIIMS||Hyderabad: AIIMS Mangalagiri doctors said acute toxicity due to water contamination by high levels of lead, nickel and organochlorine pesticides caused the mystery illness of people in Eluru. AIIMS Mangalagiri superintendent Dr Rakesh Kakkar said the lead levels were much more than 25 micrograms per 100 ml. “We have collected five samples initially and tested them to find toxic levels of heavy metals. In lead toxicity, seizures are possible. Nickel is also in higher concentration but there are no symptoms of nickel toxicity. We have also found high doses of pesticides like DDT in the blood samples of some patients,” he told TOI. Terming it as a case of acute poisoning, he said: “The medium of contamination could be water or milk. The contamination could be due to industrial pollutants mixing up with water source or batteries dumped into water source or accumulation of pesticides in water.”  AP public health commissioner Bhaskar Khatamneni said there was no lead in the water samples collected recently. He said around 400 out of 530 people have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-lead-pesticides-in-water-caused-illness-aiims/articleshow/79632155.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Indian tech cos attracted $38 bn amid pandemic||Hyderabad: Even as the world is reeling under impact of the Covid induced slowdown, Indian tech companies have been able to attract investments to the tune of $38 billion in the last six-eight months, said NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant while addressing participants virtually at TiE Global Summit-2020. He pointed out that Indian startup ecosystem, has seen over new 55,000 startups crop up and raise $60 billion in funding in the last five years. He also added that the country is witnessing a surge in the number of people opting for digital modes for carrying out financial transactions and he expects UPI to surpass global majors such as Visa and MasterCard in number of transactions over next three years. Kant said there are over 650 million internet users in the country and with over 500 million smartphone users, data consumption by Indians is one of the highest in the world. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-tech-cos-attracted-38-bn-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79632151.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar arrested in Narsingi||Hyderabad: A notorious house burglar, who in the past was booked thrice under PD Act, was arrested yet again as he was involved in 16 cases in the last three months. He is known for committing offences between 10 am and 5 pm. Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said that the accused, Mir Khazam Ali has been wanted in offences committed in Hyderabad, Cyberabad, Rachakonda. “He tries to deceive the society’s security guard by claiming that he is an electrician, “ CP said. The accused was caught in Narsingi. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-arrested-in-narsingi/articleshow/79632142.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||GMC conducts Goa’s first cadaveric kidney transplants||PANAJI: The Goa Medical College (GMC) conducted the state’s first cadaveric kidney transplants on Tuesday, a year after the state organ tissue transplant organisation (SOTTO) was constituted. With it, two men have been given a new lease of life. The 21-year-old deceased donor’s kidneys were harvested along with his heart, lungs and liver on Monday night after he was officially declared brain dead. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said history has been made at SOTTO Goa. “This is the first ever attempt made by GMC for organ donation and transplantation after declaring the patient as brain dead,” said Rane. Three organs — heart, lungs and liver — were donated to patients outside Goa and two kidneys were transplanted to recipients in the state. The kidney recipients are in the age group of 40 to 45. Goa does not have a set-up yet to conduct any kind of transplant other than kidney. “One family has lost their son, but five people have got a new life thanks to the generosity shown by the family in the face of its irreparable loss,” GMC dean S M Bandekar said. The heart went to a recipient in Mumbai, lungs to a patient in Chennai and liver to a person in Nagpur. “The heart transplant has taken place at a Mumbai hospital. Immediately after retrieval of the organ it was flown to Mumbai through a chartered flight,” Bandekar said. The first kidney transplant surgery started at noon and ended in the evening. The second kidney transplant, which began at 6pm, ended late Tuesday night. The kidney transplants were conducted by two separate teams of which one was led by Dr Madhumohan Prabhudesai, head of the urology department, and the second was headed by Dr P Oza, a consultant urologist. The two patients post transplants were being managed by a team of doctors under Dr J P Tiwari, head of the nephrology department. In fact, teams of doctors from GMC have been on their toes since Saturday after the possibility of a probable cadaveric transplant occurred. The GMC has been conducting live kidney transplants over the last eight years. It has done over twenty of them, but this is the first time it has attempted a cadaveric one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-carries-out-first-cadaveric-kidney-transplant/articleshow/79633556.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||SUV catches fire on Gomtinagar flyover, none hurt||Lucknow: A sports utility vehicle (SUV) driven by a lawyer caught fire on Gomtinagar flyover near Lohia crossing on Tuesday afternoon. An alert commuter immediately signalled to the lawyer and saved his life. Police said advocate Mohamed Khalil of Husainganj, was going to a service centre in his white SUV and took the Gomtinagar flyover to reach the destination. When he was nearing the down slope, a commuter, identified as Sarfaraz, saw smoke emanating from the bonnet of the SUV and waved at Khalil, asking him to stop the SUV. “Khalil parked the SUV and hurriedly got down. He opened the bonnet so that water could be sprinkled on it but the fire engulfed the SUV,” said SHO Vibhutikhand, Sanjay Shukla. A police team along with a fire tender reached the spot and doused the fire. The police stopped traffic movement at the flyover during the operation. SHO said that it appears that fire was caused by a short-circuit in the vehicle but exact reason will be known after experts examine the SUV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/suv-catches-fire-on-gomtinagar-flyover-none-hurt/articleshow/79633544.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||SHE Teams receive over 140 plaints in Nov||Hyderabad: Majority of the 147 complaints received by Cyberabad SHE Teams in November are about harassment over the phone and stalking.  SHE Teams sleuths verified the 147 complaints they received through various modes including Whatsapp and hawk eye app. 31 cases have been registered and 56 respondents have been counselled at Women and Child Safety Wing of Cyberabad commissionerate. During the past one month, SHE Teams cops have conducted 277 decoy operations at bus stops, shopping malls, railway stations, tutorials and colleges.  Based on the complaint of a woman from Raidurgam, police apprehended an assistant bank manager from Manikonda for harassing her through repeated phone calls. A cab driver and his friend who abused a woman over parking issue at RGI Airport were also booked by police and counselled. SHE Teams sleuths have also caught a 23-year-old private employee during a decoy operation at Chevella bus stop for making lewd gestures against women. During the past one month, SHE Teams cops have conducted 277 decoy operations at bus stops, shopping malls, railway stations, tutorials and colleges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/she-teams-receive-over-140-plaints-in-nov/articleshow/79632167.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Four turtle-nesting beaches silent zones||PANAJI: Turtle nesting sites at Morjim and Mandrem in Pernem, North Goa, and Agonda and Galgibaga in Canacona, South Goa, have been declared ‘silence zones’ by the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA). The decision, taken at the coastal authority’s November 26 meeting, comes after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on October 21 upheld the GCZMA’s order asking for demolition of all structures encroaching on the CRZ region of these turtle nesting sites. The NGT in its order had asked that besides the demolition of violating structures there should be no artificial lighting or litter along the turtle nesting beaches. “Goa is fortunate to have some of the beaches which are preferred by sea turtles, particularly Olive Ridley turtles, for laying their eggs, therefore, every effort is required to be made by the authorities concerned to keep such beaches undisturbed and in pristine condition,” the NGT bench had said. Goa’s flippered friends probably stumbled upon the beaches of Morjim in North Goa and Agonda and Galgibaga several hundred years ago as an ideal nesting ground. But it is in the late 1990s that the systematic efforts to protect these turtle nesting sites began in Goa. And, appreciably, the efforts began from the community, who have since been amply supported by the state forest department officials in the task. Olive Ridley Turtles are one of the most abundant sea turtles on earth, but now part from predators and change in climatic conditions, which is altering their nesting cycles, humans remain the number one threat to this species. Goa receives these visitors from around October to late March-early April each year. The October NGT order has also aptly said that sheds, sunbeds on the beaches of Morjim, Mandrem, Agonda and Galgibaga should be removed before the turtle nesting season begins. “There should not be any structures, whether temporary or permanent, to be erected in such beaches and no artificial lighting or food articles or litter to be allowed to be thrown in these beaches. Artificial lights disturb the turtles since they are extremely sensitive as they are guided by natural light and moon lights. And there should not be any litter on the beaches which would attract unwanted predators,” the NGT order read. Though Goa doesn’t get the large numbers like in Orissa, it is significant that these creatures, with their round, heart-shaped carapace, have not missed a date with the state’s beaches for decades, even though tourism has increased the human activity in Morjim and Galgibaga manifolds over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gczma-declares-turtle-nesting-sites-as-silence-zones/articleshow/79633538.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||VP bats for student entrepreneurs, wants varsities to set up incubators||Hyderabad: To instil the spirit of entrepreneurship early in life and encourage an innovative mindset among the youth, all the universities in the country must consider setting up incubation centres for students, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Tuesday while addressing the inaugural session of the TiE Global Summit-2020 virtually. He pointed out that universities need to establish close-linkages with industries to mentor and handhold students with novel business ideas and corporates must also provide funding support to help students take their ideas to the next level. He said it is important to encourage students to become job creators and not job seekers. And to do so, all the stakeholders will have work towards creating an apt ecosystem that nurtures entrepreneurship, he added. Naidu also highlighted the importance of encouraging women entrepreneurs and said that entrepreneurial countries in the world are also not just prosperous but also happier. “When entrepreneurs succeed, they create economic opportunity not only for Indians, but for people all over the world,” he added. Union minister of road transport & highways and MSMEs Nitin Gadkari too urged global investors to invest in India because the country is one of the fastest growing economies and has young talent. Gadkari said the government is working towards empowering village industries and increasing their overall turnover from the current Rs 80,000 crore to Rs 5 lakh crore in the next two years. On MSMEs, he pointed out that they contribute nearly 30% to the country’s GDP and the government is making efforts to increase its share to 40% over the next five years. He also pointed out that MSMEs contribute 48% to overall exports and this can be increased to 60% by 2025. On the job creation front, he highlighted that MSMEs have created over 11 crore jobs so far and can add another five crore new jobs in the next five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vp-bats-for-student-entrepreneurs-wants-varsities-to-set-up-incubators/articleshow/79632163.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf board to cancel registration of 300 illegal properties||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) has decided to crack the whip on land sharks by cancelling registration of 300 properties after some individuals illegally transferred the properties on to their names in Rangareddy district and Hyderabad. Mohammed Saleem, chairman, TSWB, said these properties are located in Mamidipally, Balapur and Dabeerpura. “Of the 300 properties, the process has begun for cancellation of registration and resumption of land from the land grabbers,” he told TOI on Tuesday. The board is meeting on Wednesday to take important decisions on protecting encroached waqf properties, he said. TOI had reported a few months ago how some individuals grabbed the waqf land illegally and enjoying the riches. The TSWB got into action after the high court criticised the authorities for failing to remove the encroachers. Waqf board officials said they are planning to take over the properties which are not under litigation and where there is no stay order by the courts. “In Mamidipally, about 700 acres of land has been swallowed by land sharks. Similarly, 100 acres in Balapur, 500 acres in Maheswaram belonging to Muslim Maternity Hospital and over 100 acres in Kandukur are in the clutches of land grabbers,” a senior official said. In some cases, revenue authorities mutated the waqf land to private persons and firms. “A property- wise inventory and status is being prepared. Even if there is a court case, senior lawyers are being hired to get the waqf property back,” Saleem asserted. Sources said since the High Court hearing is coming up on December 17, the TSWB authorities want to show some progress on saving the waqf properties. As per official records, around 75% of waqf properties have been encroached upon in 50 years. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on the floor of the assembly had admitted that of 77,000 acres of waqf land, 57,000 acres had gone into the hands of land sharks between 1963 and 2013. A few months ago, the state government had banned registration of waqf and endowments land and put the properties under section 22A of Indian Registration Act and brought them under auto-lock system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-board-to-cancel-registration-of-300-illegal-properties/articleshow/79632173.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Bharat bandh gets lukewarm response in city||Lucknow: The city witnessed a muted response to Bharat Bandh call by farmers on Tuesday in protest against new farm laws. Barring wholesale vegetable, fruit and grain markets, most commercial hubs and other markets remained open. Railway and bus stations also had the normal buzz. Some members of the Samajwadi Party reportedly tried to stop a goods train but fled after the police arrived. ACP, Vibhuti Khand, Swatantra Singh said the goods train was already stationed near Malhaur when some SP activists gathered at the spot to get their photographs clicked. “We have a video of the protestors and will take action against them,” Singh said. Naveen Galla Mandi, wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Dubagga, remained closed while markets in Nishatganj, Daliganj, Yahiyaganj, Tedhipulia, Alambagh, Dandaiya, Aminabaad, Latouche Road, Lekhraj Market, Gole Market, Hazaratganj and Nakhas remained open. President of UP Aadarsh Vyapar Mandal Sanjay Gupta said, “We cannot close shops as business is still recovering from lockdown. However, we extend our moral support to farmers.” Spokesman of Dubagga market Ratan Gupta said the mandi remained closed as vendors decided to shut shops. Joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora said, “About 80 people were detained from various parts of the city when they tried to disrupt traffic. They were later released.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bharat-bandh-gets-lukewarm-response-in-city/articleshow/79633586.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman’s murder: Suspect kills self, family protests||HYDERABAD: Three days after a 43-year-old shepherd, T Gangadhar, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree at his house in Nyavanandi village of Nizamabad district due to alleged police harassment, family members allowed authorities to bring the body down after both revenue and police officials assured them of thorough investigation into the suicide. After the murder of woman farmer P Mamatha in the agricultural fields of Nyavanandi village near Gangadhar’s house on October 3, police had questioned several villagers, including Gangadhar. Recently, police moved a petition before the court seeking permission to conduct lie detector and narco analysis tests on suspects, including Gangadhar, who was earlier convicted in a double murder case. While the investigation is still on, Gangadhar committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree behind his house on Saturday morning. Alleging that Gangadhar ended his life due to harassment by police, his family staged a protest at their house while the body remained hanging from the tree. Despite revenue officials and local police trying to convince them, the family did not budge on Monday. On Tuesday, inspector-general N Shivashankar Reddy constituted a SIT, headed by Nizamabad additional DCP Usha Viswanath, to solve the Mamatha murder case.  The family members then gave a petition at the Sirikonda police station seeking stern legal action against police personnel who harassed Gangadhar and allowed police to shift the partially decomposed body for an autopsy. I met the family of Gangadhar and assured that thorough investigation will be conducted into the death and convinced the family to allow us to shift the body for postmortem examination||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/womans-murder-suspect-kills-self-family-protests/articleshow/79632169.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Lucknow||Bandh hit life in 22 states: Atul Anjaan||Lucknow: Bharat bandh called by farmers and supported by 24 political parties on Tuesday proved a big success, said All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) national general secretary Atul Kumar Anjaan. He added that the bandh in protest against the farm laws is still continuing. Talking to reporters here on Tuesday, Anjaan said that besides getting support of chief ministers of eight states, over 90 crore people of the country extended their full cooperation to the nationwide bandh. He also hit out at the Central government for trying to mislead people by claiming that the bandh was unsuccessful. The fact is that 22 states were directly affected by the bandh, he added. Expressing concern over the language used by Central ministers, Anjaan urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to control his ministers. In BJP ruled states, saffron party workers attacked protesters with the help of anti-social elements, the AIKS leader said and added that all this happened under the state governments’ protection. He claimed that at least 413 farmers were injured in attacks led by BJP workers. In UP, 140 PAC companies were pressed into service to control the protesters, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bandh-hit-life-in-22-states-atul-anjaan/articleshow/79633621.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Surat||Surat doctors protest CCIM notice on ‘mixopathy’||SURAT: City doctors forming small groups staged protests at various places demanding the withdrawal of the notification of amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act on post-graduate Ayurveda surgery under the aegis of Indian Medical Association (IMA). Despite heavy security for Bharat Bandh call, doctors came out in support of IMA’s national call between 12pm to 2 pm. The protests were held at about eight locations across the city including Majura Gate, Tadwadi, SMIMER Hospital, Kamrej, Bhatar, New Civil Hospital (NCH) and Hira Baug Circle in Varachha on Tuesday.  ‘We respect other pathies, but no mixopathy’, claimed banners the doctors put up demanding immediate withdrawal of the notification allowing surgeries to be performed by Ayurveda practitioners including orthopaedic, ophthalmology, ENT and dental surgeries,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/docs-protest-ccim-notice-on-mixopathy/articleshow/79629967.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Varanasi||No impact of Bharat Bandh in Gorakhpur markets||Gorakhpur: The Bharat Bandh call given by the farmer unions received a poor response in Gorakhpur as the markets and office remained open as usual and normal traffic was seen on city roads. Although some political leaders and workers were detained by the police to maintain law and order in the district. Business organizations, private and government offices also remained functional with normal attendance. There were no attempts by any organization or political outfit to close the business organizations or shops. The Samajwadi Party workers and Congress workers tried to stage protests at many places in the city but their attempts were thwarted by the police to maintain law and order in the district. Officials of the district administrative and police were continuously on watch to check any bid of disturbing peace. Samajwadi Party leader and former district president Ziaulislam was detained from his house in morning and later Congress district president Nirmala Paswan was also detained. Some SP workers were also detained after they tried to block the road staging demonstrations at Kucchuhry Chauraha. Some Congress workers and farmer’s associations staged a sit-in at Nagar Nigam park. City magistrate Abhinav Ranjan Srivastav said that there was no impact of Bharat Bandh in Gorakhpur. All markets remained open, and traffic was also usual. Police and administrative officials remained vigilant and strict action were taken against any attempt to disturb law and order. Some people were detained for violating section 144. Circle officer Sumit Kumar Shukla said businessmen and traders will be provided security if they face any issues and law and order will be maintained in all conditions. Some protesters were detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/no-impact-of-bharat-bandh-in-gorakhpur-markets/articleshow/79632187.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Techie among four peddlers caught, LSD & ganja seized||HYDERABAD: Four peddlers, including a software engineer, were arrested and 55 LSD blots and three kilos of ganja was seized from their possession in separate cases on Tuesday. Acting on specific information, excise enforcement team kept a watch near KFC in Mehdipatnam and seized 55 LSD blots, each one of 350 microgram potency, along with a scooter from Md Sohaib Khan, 22, a software employee from Dilshad Nagar Colony in Rethi Bowli.  Khan has been placing orders for LSD through a social media account and paying through bitcoins. “Khan purchased each LSD blot for Rs 800 and sold the same to customers for Rs 1,700 to Rs 2,000 in the city,” assistant excise superintendent N Anji Reddy said. Excise officials found that Khan had already sold 45 blots to customers and all of them would also be charged under Section 27 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Excise team also arrested three peddlers R Sandeep Reddy, 29, of Chinnathokatta, at Ashish Garden function hall, Bowenpally and seized a kilo ganja from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techie-among-four-peddlers-caught-lsd-ganja-seized/articleshow/79632176.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Car hits eatery, four injured||Hyderabad: Four persons suffered injuries when a speeding car crashed into a road side eatery at Shamshabad on Tuesday evening. According to police, at 4.25 pm, a car driven by one Anjum on the service road of NH-44 at Shamshabad crashed into an eatery due to over speeding. Workers of the eatery, Shyam and Lumba Ram, two customers, Yadayya and Krishnaveni suffered burns as hot oil fell on them. Police registered a case against the accused driver under section 337 of the IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/car-hits-eatery-four-injured/articleshow/79632184.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Traffic cops facilitate organ transport||HYDERABAD: The traffic police facilitated the transport of live organs (lungs) by providing a green channel to the ambulance within the city limits of Tuesday. To facilitate the non-stop movement of the live organs between two jurisdictions, the Hyderabad traffic cops coordinated with Cyberabad traffic police and ensured that the entire stretch between RGIA in Shamshabad to KIMS hospital in Begumpet, was covered within 27 minutes. The reason they are provided a seamless ride is to preserve the live organs kept in cold boxes and to make sure that the success rate of the surgery remains high. By ensuring the organs reach the recipient at the earliest, medical team as well as cops can avoid wastage of organs harvested from patients who are declared brain-dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/traffic-cops-facilitate-organ-transport/articleshow/79632194.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Salem||People head to Yercaud to feel chill in air||Salem: Cold weather has set-in in the hill station of Yercaud, thanks to the continuous rain for the past week. On Tuesday, the entire hill town was under the blanket of fog, forcing local residents to stay indoors during the day time. The pleasant weather has, meanwhile, attracted tourists to the hill town. “The entire town was covered by thick fog even at 11am,” said V Kathiravan, one of the residents. Talking to TOI, he said they had been receiving continuous rain and moderate wind for the past one week. A meteorological department official said the minimum temperature stood at 14Celsius and the maximum at 21Celsius. While hotels remain closed because of the lockdown restrictions, cottages are open for tourists. C Saravanan, a tourist from Chennai, said the chill weather has hindered their sightseeing plans. “We, however, managed to visit a few spots. We are really enjoying the weather.” Many youths from Salem city were also seen heading to Yercaud on their bikes to enjoy the pleasant weather. Shop owners, however, lamented that they hadn’t clocked good business since March 24. “We usually get good business this time of the year, as it’s the tourist season. But we are finding it difficult to make even Rs 1,000 a day,” said Sumathi Annamalai, a roadside vendor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/people-head-to-yercaud-to-feel-chill-in-air/articleshow/79632213.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Man, sister get jail for duping investors of Rs 82 lakh||COIMBATORE: The special court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors in Financial Establishment (TNPID) Act cases has sentenced a man and his elder sister to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for cheating 39 investors of Rs 82.3 lakh. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 46.8 lakh on the duo. C Nandhakumar, 35, and his sister Krishnaveni, 37, from Thannerpandalpalayam in Erode district, started a private company named ‘Nandhu systems and software’ at Nasiyanur in Erode in 2012. It promised a monthly return of Rs 13,000 on an investment of Rs 1 lakh for 12 months when capital amount would be returned. As many as 39 people invested Rs 82.27 lakh in the company, which provided a dividend for a few months. Later, the company was found closed and Nandhakumar and Krishnaveni went into hiding. Based on a complaint from the investors, the economic offences wing (EOW) police registered an FIR against Nandhakumar and Krishnaveni on May 30, 2012 and arrested the duo. They were remanded in judicial custody. A few months later, the duo obtained bail and came out of the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-sister-get-jail-for-duping-investors-of-rs-82l/articleshow/79639785.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man stabs sister’s 18-year-old boyfriend to death||RAJKOT: An 18-year-old boy was stabbed to death at his home in Kadi area on Monday evening for having an affair with a girl. Police said that deceased Amit Parmar, who worked in a furniture showroom, was killed by his neighbour Hardik Solanki, brother of the girl with whom Parmar was having an affair. Solanki was enraged upon learning that Parmar and his sister were regularly talking with each other over phone for the last fortnight and went to Parmar’s house on Monday evening to confront him on the matter. He asked Parmar’s parents to call him as he wanted to settle a score. When Parmar reached home, he found Solanki very furious and that his parents were trying to pacify him. The issue, however, got settled when Parmar apologized and also promised the accused never to talk to his sister again. After hearing Parmar’s apology, Solanki left, but returned a couple of minutes later and stabbed him suddenly. Parmar was taken to a hospital in Upleta from where he had to be shifted to Rajkot for further treatment. However, he succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday morning. “We have booked the accused for murder and criminal intimidation and have also detained him,” said inspector K J Rana of Upleta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-stabs-sisters-18-year-old-boyfriend-to-death/articleshow/79630969.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi to launch sugar plant at Pipraich mill||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate a sulphur-less sugar plant at Pipraich sugar mill in Gorakhpur on Wednesday between 2.45 pm and 3.30 pm and after that he will go to Gorakhnath temple, according to the information department. The CM had inaugurated the Pipraich sugar mill in November last year. On December 10, the CM will preside over the main programme of Maharana Pratap Siksha Parishad (MPSP) week-long foundation day celebrations and award distribution ceremony at Maharana Pratap Inter College in Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-to-launch-sugar-plant-at-pipraich-mill/articleshow/79632208.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man, sister get jail for duping investors of Rs 82 lakh||COIMBATORE: The special court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors in Financial Establishment (TNPID) Act cases has sentenced a man and his elder sister to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for cheating 39 investors of Rs 82.3 lakh. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 46.8 lakh on the duo. C Nandhakumar, 35, and his sister Krishnaveni, 37, from Thannerpandalpalayam in Erode district, started a private company named ‘Nandhu systems and software’ at Nasiyanur in Erode in 2012. It promised a monthly return of Rs 13,000 on an investment of Rs 1 lakh for 12 months when capital amount would be returned. As many as 39 people invested Rs 82.27 lakh in the company, which provided a dividend for a few months. Later, the company was found closed and Nandhakumar and Krishnaveni went into hiding. Based on a complaint from the investors, the economic offences wing (EOW) police registered an FIR against Nandhakumar and Krishnaveni on May 30, 2012 and arrested the duo. They were remanded in judicial custody. A few months later, the duo obtained bail and came out of the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-sister-get-jail-for-duping-investors-of-rs-82l/articleshow/79632207.cms||---
December 9, 2020||World||US steps closer to vaccine approval amid row over ‘not purchasing more doses’||US regulators stepped closer to approving the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday as a 90-year-old British woman became the first person outside of trials to receive the shot, offering hope of slowing a pandemic that has pushed hospitals to the brink. Meanwhile, the Trump administration sought to shore up the US vaccine supply and Congress progressed toward a stopgap Covid-19 relief package on Monday, when another 203,474 infections were reported and 1,582 people died. Pfizer Inc is on the cusp of winning US approval for the vaccine it developed with Germany’s BioNTech, clearing a hurdle on Tuesday when the US FDA released documents that did not raise any new issues about its safety or efficacy. Britain has already authorised the Pfizer vaccine, enabling Margaret Keenan, 90, to receive the first shot at her local hospital in Coventry in central England. While China and Russia have gone forward with their own vaccines, Britain is the first Western nation to begin mass inoculations. The US could soon follow as an FDA panel of outside advisers will meet on Thursday to discuss whether to recommend emergency use authorisation of the Pfizer vaccine.US health officials predict a swift green light with inoculations starting days or weeks later. President Trump will sign an executive order on Tuesday to ensure that priority access for Covid-19 vaccines procured by the US government is given to the American people before assisting other nations. The signing follows a New York Times report that Pfizer may not be able to provide more of its vaccine to the US until next June because of its commitments to other countries. The Washington Post also reported that the Trump administration months ago passed on the chance to buy twice as many as the 100 million doses they agreed to. Pfizer had urged the Trump’ss Operation Warp Speed program to purchase 200 million doses, enough for 100 million people as the vaccine is administered in two shots, the Post reported. White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany denied the reports “The administration didn’t pass. We contracted with many other firms.” Moncef Slaoui, a leader of Operation Warp Speed, said on Tuesday: “We have committed to have enough vaccine doses to immunise the full population by middle of the year, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-steps-closer-to-vaccine-approval-amid-row-over-not-purchasing-more-doses/articleshow/79634790.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain pounds Nilgiris for sixth consecutive day||Udhagamandalam: Normal life was affected as incessant rain lashed most parts of the Nilgiris for the sixth day on Tuesday. A thick blanket of mist, meanwhile, has enveloped the hills. Hulical in Coonoor taluk registered the maximum of 35mm rainfall for the 24 hours that ended at 7am on Tuesday, followed by Kodanadu (32.5mm), Kotagiri (24.2mm), Avalanche (21mm), Coonoor (20mm) and Ooty (20mm). Gudalur and Pandalur taluks did not record much rain. According to revenue officials, the hill district has not reported much damage, except for fallen trees and partial damage to a few huts. The rain has loosened the soil, which is being washed away into the streams. People, whose houses were damaged, were shifted to the nearby relief camps. Trees that were uprooted were removed from the roads at the earliest, facilitating vehicular movement. District collector J Innocent Divya said, “Yedappalli and Hulical areas in Coonoor taluk have received more rain. We have identified vulnerable areas in the district and they are under vigil. People who feel unsafe in their area or house because of the continuous rain can take a shelter in the nearby relief camps.” The rain has hit the agriculture and tea plantation work hard. Murugan, a farmer in Ooty, said, “We are not able to harvest crops such as carrots and potatoes because of the continuous rain. They might get spoiled if the rain persists.” Construction work has also been disrupted. “The rain started last Thursday. It has been six days since I went to work. My earnings have been hit,” said Kumar, a construction worker. With thick mist covering the hills, motorists found it difficult to navigate through the ghat roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-pounds-nilgiris-for-sixth-consecutive-day/articleshow/79632263.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Varanasi||Cold storage set up at LBS airport to boost exports||Varanasi: The wish of farm producer organizations (FPO) exploring new markets across the globe for exporting fruits and vegetables of having a cold storage at Lal Bahadur Shastri International airport is going to be fulfilled on Wednesday. The Airport Authority of India regional executive director D K Kamra will inaugurate a cold storage at the new cargo terminal building on Wednesday afternoon, said airport spokesman. “A cold storage of five metric tonne capacity has been established at the airport. It will preserve perishable articles consignment safely by maintaining cold chain till loading on flight,” he added. The FPOs from Varanasi and surrounding districts have been exporting organic vegetables and fruits to Dubai and London markets in the past eight months and will be sending consignments to Oman by month-end, said Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) assistant general manager C B Singh. Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “A proposal for a cold storage of 30 metric tonne capacity at the airport is in pipeline. As it is a time taking process, the Airport Authority of India officials were asked to set up a low capacity packhouse with cold storage to facilitate FPOs and exporters of perishable articles.” Construction of a packhouse by Mandi Parishad on land in UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) at its industrial estate in Karkhiyao is proposed in Varanasi, he added. “The proposed packhouse will end the dependency of local farmers on facilities in other districts and would save both time and money spent on transportation. Their produce will be packed locally and exported directly from LBS International Airport,” he added. The packhouse will be a major support for farmers of this region as after the establishment of a perishable cargo centre by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018, they had started diversifying their produce for markets abroad, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cold-storage-set-up-at-lbs-airport-to-boost-exports/articleshow/79632267.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Bandh total in Amravati as trade bodies back farmers||Amravati: Responding to the bandh call given by Kisan Sangharsha Samanway Samiti in support of Bharat bandh call of the farmers, agitating for their demands near New Delhi, the district observed a total bandh on Tuesday. All major markets in the city and the district remained closed as all business and trade organizations, including banking sector, had lent its support to the bandh. A rally was taken out in the morning in support of the farmers. Congress and CPI workers also took out rallies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bandh-total-in-amravati-as-trade-bodies-back-farmers/articleshow/79630979.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Varanasi||‘Bharat Bandh’ evokes poor response in Varanasi||Varanasi: The ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the farmer bodies protesting in Delhi against the farms laws evoked a poor response in Varanasi and surrounding districts of the region on Tuesday. Markets in both-urban and rural belts of the district remained open while traffic on roads and highways also remained unaffected. The game of hide and seek continued between police and political parties especially Samajwadi Party, which had extended its support to the bandh call. Many of its leaders were not allowed to come out of their places as cops were deployed there. Those who managed to dodge the men in khaki, were arrested and sent to police lines. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “The bandh call was completely ineffective in Varanasi, Jaunpur, Chandauli, Ghazipur, Mirzapur, Sonbhadra, Bhadohi, Azamgarh, Ballia and Mau districts of the zone as market and official activities continued like normal days. Not a single case of blocking the traffic or rail movement could take place due to alertness of police and close vigil by the officials in all districts.” Divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said not a single untoward incident or bid by protesters to compel any trader for closing shops or other establishments was reported. Preventive detention of people from the parties and organisations, who could disturb peace, had been done in all the districts and they were freed after the end of the hours of bandh call at 3 pm. In Varanasi, one group of SP workers had succeeded in reaching the district headquarters and staging protest after closing the collectorate gate in the morning. Almost all senior leaders including former ministers Surendra Singh, Manoj Rai Dhoopchandi, office bearers of different units were not allowed to come out of their places. SSP Amit Pathak said around 100 protesters had been held and later released on submission of personal bonds while six were sent to jail. High drama pevailed when SPs leader of opposition in Varanasi Municipal Corporation house, Kamal Patel, was arrested by the police while trying to come out on the road to stage protest. A group of left parties activists also gathered at Town Hall to protest against farm reforms. The commissioner and IG Varanasi range VS Mina visited several parts of the city while district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and SSP also took stock of many markets and railway stations. In Chandauli, SP activists and supporters started gathering at the place of former MP Ram Kishun after they came to know that he was not being allowed to come out for staging protest. One group of SP workers, led by former MLA Manoj Singh Dablu, was held when it tried to block the railway track in Chandauli. The cops in Azamgarh succeeded in keeping SP cadres silent by not allowing former ministers Balram Yadav, Durga Yadav and other leaders including Sangram Yadav, Hawaldar Yadav and MLA Nafis Ahmed to stage protest. The district chief of Congress, Pravin Singh, was also not allowed to come out of his house, but a group of Congress leaders dodged the cops and marched towards Agrasen crossing after carrying out a procession from their office near collectorate. A team of police led by CO City Rajesh Tiwari caught them and sent to police lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bharat-bandh-evokes-poor-response-in-varanasi/articleshow/79632329.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Revisiting Partition using ‘lost’ artefacts, art & stories||Kolkata: At a time when attempts are being made to rewrite history from different vantage points based on ideological biases, a section of academics, artists and students has taken it upon itself to retell the personal stories involved in Partition through social media, art installation, academic research and projects.Presidency University student Meghmala Ghosh and Benaras Hindu University student Sarasi Ganguly have created a Facebook page — The Memory Gazette — to document micro-heritage’. “We tell stories of the hidden parts of our history through tickets or border passes, art on matchboxes, perfume bottles, family recipes, etc that people brought with them from Bangladesh during Partition.” PhD research scholar at University of California, Riverside, Sinjini Chatterjee started her blog ‘Khadya Maryada’ with the idea of bringing back the forgotten recipes, like dimer noshi kebab, hossain-e-kebab and varied recipes of non-vegetarian pulao. “ These were popular dishes of undivided Bengal, but are now found only in Bangladesh,” Chatterjee said.Avishek Parui, assistant professor (English), department of humanities and social sciences at IIT Madras, said, “Micro-narratives on social media form an important part of memory studies because it shows the story’s distributive quality. Anyone can tell a story on social media and by doing s/he is reconstructing the event.” He added that at IIT Madras Memory Studies Research Network — the first of its kind in South Asia — a project titled ‘Masculinity and the violence of re-membering in Partition and Naxalbari literature’ explores the entanglement of subversive and ‘outsider’ identities, which were existentially experienced and politically produced. Research on Partition and Naxalbari examine this production and alienation of identities.Artist Paula Sengupta’s art installation — Rivers of Blood — tells the stories of her own family and those of countless others, whose lives were displaced by the Partition, through found textiles — garments like her father’s Army uniform, trunks and embroideries. It is also a visual rendering of a diary that she wrote documenting her travels through Bangladesh in search of her lost home. “Using nakshikantha as the narrative medium and juxtaposing it with colonial forms of embroidery, I tried to emphasize on the symbolism of identity and explore the layered tales and histories of millions along with my own experience,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revisiting-partition-using-lost-artefacts-art-stories/articleshow/79632317.cms||Dipawali Mitra
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Active Covid cases jump by 50% in 2 weeks in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris witnessed an increase in active cases of Covid-19 in the past two weeks. As on December 7, the rate of increase has been 50% in two weeks. The district has also been seeing fluctuation in the daily count of new cases of Covid-19.While the number of active cases stood at 144 on November 23, (15 days ago), the same increased to 217 as on December 7, showing a surge of 50%. Meantime, the recovery rate in the district also saw a slight dip of 1%. The rate came down to 96.3% from 97.4% which was two weeks ago.“The surge in active cases of the virus is because of the festival season. People who travelled to other districts during the festival season last month had tested positive. Their primary and secondary contacts have also added to the load of active cases,” deputy director of public health P Balusamy said. In another two or three days, the Nilgiris will see a decline in new cases as well as active cases of the virus.On Tuesday, the Nilgiris recorded 12 new cases taking the tally to 7,605, even as 16 patients recovered and discharged. The district has seen as many as 7,350 people recovered so far.Of the total 213 active cases, 12 are taking treatment at government facilities while 23 patients are being treated at private hospitals in Coimbatore.At least 57 patients are kept in home quarantine and being monitored, and the remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor, Gudalur besides two Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-cases-jump-by-50-in-2-weeks-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79632338.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Green activists, KMDA to launch Lake clean-up drive tomorrow||Kolkata: Various environmental groups have joined hands to clear decomposed material and plastic from the water body and the grounds of Rabindra Sarobar. The two-day drive, starting Thursday, will be supported by KMDA, custodian of the city’s largest man-made lake.The annual onslaught of Chhath rituals was prevented last month with the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the high court and apex court ruling against allowing the festivities on the 192-acre premises, said to be the lungs of south Kolkata. But the open green space and the beloved Lake of morning walkers is hardly immune to continuous biodegradation. The 73-acre water body needs urgent attention.Therefore, six environmental groups under the banner of ‘Sarobar Eco Lovers’ Forum (SELF)’, are trying to prevent further biodegradation and implement the Centre’s National Lake Conservation Plan, in which Rabindra Sarobar was included several years ago. “It is a joint effort to save the biodiversity and ecological balance of Rabindra Sarobar, whose National Lake status has been under threat for a long time,” said green activist S M Ghosh. SELF secretary Sudipto Bhattacharjee said, “The drive will include an elaborate to-do list. The most important part will be cleaning up the water body.” Remnants of tree trunks that fell into the water during Cyclone Amphan will be lifted out with the help of machines and boats provided by KMDA. Around 50 volunteers from SELF will participate in clean-up. “But the cleaning can’t be done without manpower and equipment provided by KMDA. For the past few days, we noticed dead fish floating in the water. We have shared the videos on the Sarobar Facebook page,” said Santanu Chatterjee, a regular at Lake.“The grass is damaged and the water has an oily layer on it. Hopefully, the oxygen content will improve after the clean-up,” said Sumita Banerjee, one of the petitioners of the appeal against Lake’s pollution before the NGT.The forum’s two-day drive will be followed by sapling-planting and aquaculture to keep the water clean.“As KMDA intends on keeping the Lake open all day, washing and bathing — that cause pollution — will start again,” Ghosh said, pointing at the heaps of garbage and plastic bottles strewn around. The security guards on patrol pleaded helplessness as most of the CCTV cameras were damaged in the cyclone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/green-activists-kmda-to-launch-lake-clean-up-drive-tomorrow/articleshow/79632313.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Pedestrians account for 22% of road accident fatalities: Data||Nagpur: Poor or non-existent footpaths along with encroachments are taking a heavy toll on pedestrians. This year (from January 1 to November 30), 39 pedestrians have lost their life, while 121 were injured after being hit by speeding vehicles, reveals Nagpur traffic police data.As per the data, pedestrian deaths contributed almost 22% in 11 months of this calendar year. During the same period, the city roads have witnessed 680 accidents, which claimed 176 lives including 39 of pedestrians. Last year, the percentage of pedestrians killed in road accidents was 5.3%. Of the 226 people killed in various road accidents last year, 12 were pedestrians, reveals the statistics.Broken, uneven or damaged footpaths and also encroachments leave no space for pedestrians to walk on, forcing them to use road, admitted a senior cop from the traffic police department. This has resulted in increase in the number of pedestrians killed on city roads, he added. Traffic cops deployed at busy squares like Variety Square, Rani Jhansi Square too admitted that encroachments on footpath and damaged conditions have led to increase in jaywalking. This further led to increase in road mishaps involving pedestrians, said the cop.TOI visited many localities, especially busy stretches across the city, including Central Avenue, Cotton Market area, Ganeshpeth etc and found that condition of footpaths is very bad. At most commercial places, pedestrians were forced to walk on road due to rampant encroachments by shopkeepers and hawkers, while footpaths in areas like Central Avenue are broken at many places making it impossible to use them.According to lawyer and citizens’ activist Ankita Shah, footpaths are for pedestrians, whose rights are protected under various Acts. The Indian Road Congress (IRC) has suggested standardizing pedestrian infrastructure, but these guidelines are ignored by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC).“Several videos depicting pedestrian facilities in other countries circulate on social media. In many countries, citizens are taught pedestrian as well as traffic discipline since childhood and hence they follow the rules strictly,” she pointed out.“Despite provisioning footpaths in our city, these remain mostly out of bound either because of poor condition or improper planning by the civic body. Corporators get some funds to carry out developmental activities, but even they are negligent towards this issue,” said Shah.“People are forced to walk on roads, including those which witness heavy traffic, as it is impossible to walk on footpath even for a shorter distance. Pothole-ridden footpaths, littered with garbage or encroachments is a common sight in the city in all parts,” she said.“NMC must be held responsible under sections 336/337/338 of IPC for such negligence and if anybody is caught in the death trap ever, the civic body should be booked under Section 304 of IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder),” said the lawyer. A citizen Darshan Maheshwari said, “People are forced to walk on road because at most places the footpaths are damaged, encroached, garbage dumped, manhole covers broken etc. This results in accidents and even death. The NMC should fulfil its basic responsibilities and repair the footpaths, remove all encroachments making them walkable again (to save human life.)” Citing an example of official apathy, Maheshwari pointed out that footpath near collector’s office and the district court remains encroached throughout the day. “NMC spends crores of rupees on building footpaths, but it doesn’t pay any attention later on its maintenance and upkeep,” he said.BOX-1Year---Total Accidents---No. of persons killed---No. of pedestrians killed2020---680---176---392019---932---226---12BOX-2Footpath in shambles: StudySeveral studies on the state of city’s footpaths expose their pitiable conditions. A study by Evangelical Social Action Forum has revealed that the city has around 42% of the roads which have footpaths on both sides, 23% have footpaths only on one side, while 35% don’t have footpath at all.A recent study of city roads and footpaths by Metrorail has also brought to fore similar conditions. Even though the width of walkway available on footpaths varies across the road length in the city, advertisement poles and railings along footpaths discourage pedestrians from using them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pedestrians-account-for-22-of-road-accident-fatalities-data/articleshow/79632352.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Police wary of extra load on road to crematorium||Kolkata: The augmentation of Dhapa crematorium will pose a new challenge for the city police that had already decided to approach civic agencies and the local panchayats with a host of suggestions to help increase the safety of the 1.5km road leading up to the crematorium. The road, though, goes much beyond the crematorium. It takes a right turn a little before the crematorium and goes another 5.5km right up to Bhojerhat parallel to Basanti Highway.“We have had a number of accidents, including two fatal ones this year, on the 7 km stretch. The second crematorium is bound to increase traffic. The accidents mostly occurred in the panchayat area, but we want to avert them,” said an officer from east division.The cops said that the area usually witnesses fog denser than in the rest of the city and with winter approaching, they want to take all precautions. “There is a notion that only those who work in the Dhapa area live here. But a huge labour force at the small industrial units in Tangra, Topsia and even many domestic helps live here. There are a number of slow-moving vehicles on this road, which is our concern,” said an officer.The improvised battery-operated three-wheelers are the biggest headache.” In Kolkata, they are not allowed. But this is one area where they ply between Mathpukur and Bhojerhat as there is no option to connect to places like Saidabad, Durgapur Colony and Number 2 van stand that host a significant population,” said the officer.Besides calling for on a safer public transport mode, the police want basic streetlights installed beyond the main Dhapa Road. Other proposals include increasing transport options and adding bitumen layers to the road. The road, claim cops, is not enough to handle the traffic —a mix of KMC dumpers, ambulances, two-wheelers and three-wheelers. A KMC official said that the area under their jurisdiction meets all the demands of the police. “The main Dhapa Road is now complete with proper street lights and signage. The areas under the panchayats are the challenge spots.,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-wary-of-extra-load-on-road-to-crematorium/articleshow/79632348.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 9, 2020||Agra||Farmers block NH-2, Yamuna e-way in Mathura, Aligarh-Palwal road in Aligarh||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Farmers from western Uttar Pradesh (UP) blocked all the major highways leading to Delhi, including Yamuna Expressway, National Highway-2 in Mathura and the Aligarh-Palwal road in Aligarh, on Tuesday in response to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations to protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. While most commuters remained off the road, the protesters did allow all emergency services to operate as usual. Several districts, including Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli and Bijnor, witnessed heavy police and paramilitary deployment in several pockets, especially entry points to the cities and major crossings on the highways. In Meerut, several companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) were deployed in Jitauli in Kankerkhera area where farmers led by Bhartiya Kisan union (BKU) held a peaceful protest. Sensitive areas in the city were kept under drone vigil and patrolling was done by senior police officials, including ADG (zone) Rajiv Sabharwal. Police detained several Congress and Samajwadi Party workers in Mathura, Aligarh, Bareilly, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor and other parts of the region while some farmer leaders were put under house arrest in Agra. In Mathura, former Congress legislative party leader Pradeep Mathur along with several party workers and RLD leader Kunwar Narendra Singh was detained. In Aligarh, former MP Bijendra Singh, former MLAs Zamirullah Khan, and Zafar Aalam, and SP’s former city president Ajju Ishaq were held. In Pilibhit, farmers blocked Pilibhit-Basti NH 730 near Gajraula and at Sirsa crossing. The jam lasted for over four hours. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said a total of 141 people from various political parties were detained but later released. Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni said, "We had held talks with trade associations in advance and all markets and shops were open and operating freely. Some farmer unions held a symbolic protest.” Meanwhile, shops were open in most parts of the region and the bandh showed a mixed response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-block-nh-2-yamuna-e-way-in-mathura-aligarh-palwal-road-in-aligarh/articleshow/79630052.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Bright NMR coaches will provoke wild animals: NDC||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The coaches of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) are popular for its traditional blue hue. But the recent makeover of the coaches with bright incandescent colours by the private player who conducted two charter special trips last weekend has drawn criticism from the stakeholders. In a press release in connection with a charter special train operated by a private player last weekend on the NMR track, the Nilgiri Documentation Centre (NDC) said, “The NMR passes through 40km of thick forests inhabited by wild elephants and other animals. Painting the coaches in bright colours will be provocative to wildlife and endanger the lives of the passengers. The insensitivity of the chartered operator is regrettable.” Director of NDC Dharmalingam Venugopal said, “What is perplexing is that when the NMR is emerging as the indigenous pride of the Southern Railway, why spoil it by this unimaginative initiative. This appears more as a new birth with a new colour and a nomenclature.” Divisional railway manager of Salem division of southern railway A G Srinivas said, “The private player has taken the contract for 13 charter trips of NMR only during weekends and two trips during the week starting from December 5 till January 3, 2021. Charges for the chartering of the train would vary. In a way it is an income for the NMR.” He added, “Fixing price for tickets is up to the private player. Railways don’t have anything to do with that,” he added According to him, if the railway board, meantime, gives consent to operate the passenger train on the NMR, then the timings of charter special will be changed accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bright-nmr-coaches-will-provoke-wild-animals-ndc/articleshow/79632363.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||New rules reduce open spaces, limit role of NMC, NMRDA||Nagpur: The state government has reduced recreational open spaces, which are often called lungs of the city, despite demand for more open spaces, in the recently approved unified Development Control and Promotion Regulations (DCPR). Also, the open spaces will not be in the possession of planning authorities, like Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for city and Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) for metropolitan region, for development of playground, indoor stadiums or any recreational projects.As per unified DCPR, recreational open space will be 10% of total area of layout. As per old Development Control Regulations (DCR), it was 15%.Considering the lack of big playgrounds, indoor stadiums, swimming pools, cycling zones, gardens etc in all parts of the city, activists had demanded increase in recreational open space to 20%.Activist TH Naidu told TOI, “Government has clearly favoured developers instead of open spaces for the next generation. With increase in congestion and density in city and outskirts, there was need for more open spaces, specially in metropolitan region, where many areas are yet to be developed.”Architect Virendra Khare also believes the decision was wrong. “It should have been retained at 15%,” he said.Also, old DCR allowed construction on 15% of total open space, with 10% on ground floor and 5% on first floor, for sports purposes only. In unified DCPR, the government has allowed club house, crèche, kindergarten, utilities such as water tank (underground or elevated), electric substation, generator set, pump houses, garbage treatment, public health out post/centre and religious structures.Naidu said other facilities will be given top priority instead of sports, yoga, fitness, indoor sports etc. “Also, it will led to encroachment by parking, storing materials etc on remaining 85% open area,” he said.Naidu added, “There is provision for showing 50% of recreational open space on terrace of a podium in congested as well as non-congested area. This also benefits developers and not the residents.”In unified DCPR, NMC and NMRDA cannot keep possession of the recreational open spaces for facilitating services to the people. All these will be under societies. In old DCR, planning authorities were to compulsorily take over open spaces and develop for public purposes.Naidu said open spaces will be either abandoned or encroached under the new norm, as difference of opinion is a common thing among people in any housing society. “Also, societies do not have sufficient funds for development and maintenance.”The government has continued with old norm of 5% amenity space in layouts of 4,000 to 10,000 sq m, and 10% for those above 10,000 sq m.As per provisions in old DCR, NIT and NMC used to also keep possession of amenity spaces with it. In unified DCR, the planning authorities can take over amenity spaces only for development of playground, garden, school, hospital and fire station. If taken over for these purposes, the land owner or developer will be given extra floor space index (FSI) or transferable development right (TDR).Naidu said here too the government favoured developers instead of systematic development.Khare also criticised a provision regarding amenity space, “Developers have to seek NOC from concerned authorities taking care of playground, garden, school, hospital and fire station services for development. This will force developers to kowtow to officials.”-------------------------OTHER SETBACKS TO OPEN SPACES* No provision for recreational open space in layouts to be regularized under Gunthewari Act. Many such regularized layouts even now lack playgrounds, gardens and other recreational projects. Huge vacant land on city’s outskirts pending for regularization may also become concrete jungle in next few years* Government not clearly mandated planning authorities to approve open space of 10% at one location in each layout, leaving chances of interpretation and misuse. In case of land over 0.8 hectare, government allowed recreational open space at different locations in same layout* Planning authorities can taken possession of recreational open space in case of violations by owner/societies. But planning authorities will have to compulsorily hand it back to owner/societies if demanded||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-rules-reduce-open-spaces-limit-role-of-nmc-nmrda/articleshow/79632357.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 9, 2020||Kanpur||SI attacked by villager, six arrested||Jhansi: A police sub-inspector who had gone to resolve a dispute between two parties was attacked, a video of which went viral on Tuesday. Six persons have been arrested by the police in this connection. As per the details, the incident has been reported from village Futera falling under police station Baruasagar where SI Sunil Kumar Tiwari, posted at the same police station, had gone to resolve a dispute. During negotiations, one of the persons present there broke a branch of a tree and attacked the SI. One of the onlookers filmed the incident which went viral . Additional police force was rushed to the spot and six persons were arrested in this connection. SP City Vivek Tripathi said all the accused have been caught and booked under relevant sections for causing injuries to government official and causing hindrance in official work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/si-attacked-by-villager-six-arrested/articleshow/79632365.cms||Arindam Ghosh
December 9, 2020||Meerut||Caught in blaze, toddler dies, girl, three, serious in Shamli district||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A six-month-old toddler died and a girl, 3, was rushed to a hospital with serious burn injuries after their room caught fire in Shamli district on Tuesday. It is suspected that the fire was triggered by candle flame. The incident took place in Shamli’s Thana Bhawan area when the mother of the children left them sleeping alone in the room after lighting a candle, the father of the children, Shahzad, said. After hearing screams, she rushed into the room and found them under a burning quilt. They were rushed to a hospital where Arsh was declared dead. The elder girl, Bushra, was referred to another hospital in Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/caught-in-blaze-toddler-dies-girl-3-serious/articleshow/79630083.cms||Mohd Dilshad
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||At 20, Coimbatore lad becomes ‘strong boy of world’||COIMBATORE: A 20-year-old city student has been declared the “strong boy of world 2020” at the recently-concluded 21st world powerlifting championship in Maharashtra. Nirmal Nagendran, a resident of Ganapathy, won the first prize in the 75kg category under 23 beating 25 other participants, including those from countries such as Nepal, Russia, Indonesia and London. The first-year MCom student has been training in weightlifting and powerlifting since 2016. His journey to the fame started in November 2016, when he went to a neighbourhood gym at Avarampalayam with a longing to build his skinny body into a broader and stronger one. “To build body mass and muscle, I was introduced to weight training. The coach noticed how I was able to strengthen myself and progressing quickly, and took me to a district-level tournament in which I won the silver medal,” recalls Nirmal. There has been no looking back since then. Nirmal then changed gyms, got noticed by the Amateur Powerlifting Federation of India and began working out at its gyms. “I went to V Tone Fitness Studio at Peelamedu and other gyms of the federation in the district.” By the age of 18, he started winning gold medals at the state power lifting championships. “After completing my graduation, I began to solely focus on powerlifting.” He trains six hours a day – in the morning he focuses on general fitness and in the evening on powerlifting. In the recent championship that concluded at Amaravathi in Maharashtra on December 7, Nirmal lifted 605kg weight in raw powerlifting category. “It’s the powerlifting federation and gym that sponsor my participation and travel, while my parents encourage me and cook my special low-calorie diet, which often includes chicken without oil, masala or salt. My college also motivates and allows me to focus on training and tournaments.” He is a student of STC Arts and Science College in Pollachi. Nirmal is expected to return to the city on Wednesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/at-20-city-lad-becomes-strong-boy-of-world/articleshow/79632374.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
December 9, 2020||Meerut||Pregnant ‘lover’ dies after man gives her abortion pills to marry another||Meerut: A 24-year-old man was arrested on rape charges moments before his wedding in UP’s Bulandshahr after a woman he had been allegedly exploiting for several months on the promise of marriage was rushed to a hospital in serious condition due to pregnancy-related complications. Now five months pregnant, the woman, 20, was given abortion pills allegedly by the accused on Monday, the family alleged. She died on Tuesday morning in a Meerut hospital.On Monday afternoon, as the woman lay squirming in pain on a government hospital bed, the accused, Rahul,was busy giving final touches to the wedding preparations. But a police team cut short the celebrations. Santosh Kumar Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Bulandshahr, said, “The woman was in a relationship with the man, who was sexually exploiting her on the pretext of marriage. On the day of his wedding, she consumed abortion pills. Her condition deteriorated and she was referred to a Meerut hospital where she died during treatment.”“On the complaint of the family of the deceased, the accused was arrested just before his wedding procession,” the SSP said.According to the family, the woman started bleeding on Monday evening and was taken to a hospital in Bulandshahr. But, as her condition deteriorated, the doctors referred her to Meerut’s government hospital, where she died a few hours later.Contesting the police’s version, the family claimed that thewoman was handed over the abortion pills by Rohit. “He (the accused) had been sexually exploiting her on thepretext of marriage. And he gave her the pills to abort. We got to know when she (the victim) started bleeding,” uncle of the deceased said. Rahul was booked under IPC section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminalintimidation) at Khanpur police station of Bulandshahr.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pregnant-lover-dies-after-man-gives-her-abortion-pills-to-marry-another/articleshow/79630086.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Palanpur: Three injured in police lathi-charge, Congress MLAs among hundreds detained||PALANPUR: At least three persons were injured after police baton charged protesters supporting the Bharat bandh, while 150 others were detained in Patan district on Tuesday. The bandh call received mixed response in north Gujarat districts where Congress party has a stronghold. According to Congress Patan MLA Kirit Patel, those injured in police baton charging were farmers, and they have been hospitalized. He said that they have filed a complaint against the police for their high-handedness. Though there was a lukewarm response to the nation-wide bandh call in Mehsana, 59 Congress activists were detained there. Other places like Becharji, Vadnagar, Kukarwada witnessed scuffle between the farmers and police. In Kadi protesters had cut trees to block roads. In Bhiloda taluka of Aravalli district tyres of bus were deflated. Talod taluka of Sabarkantha also witnessed mixed response. In Palanpur, Tharad, Vav, Danta and other places, at least 40 persons were detained which included Tharad MLA Gulabsinh Rajput, Vav MLA Ganiben Thakor and Danta MLA Kanti Kharadi.Banaskantha district Congress chief Dinesh Gadhvi too was detained. In Danta, protesters burnt tyres on roads to stop traffic. Though the APMCs in North Gujarat remained opened, no business transacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-injured-in-police-lathi-charge-cong-mlas-among-hundreds-detained/articleshow/79631044.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Nights to get chillier in city; showers to pause for a while||Coimbatore: Nights might get colder in the city with the minimum temperature, which was hovering around 22C and 23C, expected to drop further by the weekend, as the dry northerly and north-easterly wind in the central zone move towards Tamil Nadu.The district is unlikely to receive showers for more than a week from Thursday. It has hardly received 60% of the projected rainfall during the northeast monsoon so far.Even as different parts of the city received light drizzles and moderate showers on Tuesday evening, weather experts said wet conditions would cease by Thursday evening. Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist with Skymet Weather Services, said, “The rainfall is due to the cyclone Burevi weakening over the Gulf of Mannar. The rain will stop by Thursday evening and may be followed only by patchy, light drizzles.”In the absence of moisture laden wind and clouds, Palawat said, dry northerly or north-easterly wind moving south from the central part of the country might enter Tamil Nadu.Santhosh Krishnan, author of Facebook page ‘The Coimbatore Weatherman’, said, “From Wednesday, we may be in for chilly nights, making it seem like Ooty weather.”The Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University said the district had already recorded a minimum temperature of 17C once in November and 18C last week. “We don’t think temperatures will fall below that,” its director Dr S P Ramanathan said.Formation of a few low-pressure troughs in the Bay of Bengal and the South Andaman Sea might bring some rain from December 15. “While we can’t make predictions that are more than a week away, the district needs to receive more rainfall during the remaining leg of the northeast monsoon. Compared to the usual 305mm-310mm rainfall, we have hardly received 200mm rain as per our rain gauge. We have to receive another 100mm rain through the remaining weeks of December,” Ramanathan said.According to the regional meteorological department, the district has received only 154mm northeast monsoon showers so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nights-to-get-chillier-in-city-showers-to-pause-for-a-while/articleshow/79632396.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kanpur||Five injured in pile-up on Auraiya highway||Kanpur: Five people were injured on Tuesday morning in a pile-up of 12 vehicles due to dense fog on the Auraiya -Etawah highway near Karampur in Auraiya district. Five persons travelling in separate vehicles received serious injuries while several others suffered minor injuries, the police said. Police said they were informed in the early hours about an accident on the highway near Karampur under the limits of Kotwali police station. The incident took place when a two-wheeler rider coming from Etawah side fell off the vehicle in the middle of the road, they said.In order to save him, a driver of a heavy vehicle applied the brakes. But due to fog, other vehicles around 12 in number piled up, they added. The injured were taken to a nearby district hospital, police said. District magistrate Auraiya Abhishek Singh after coming to know about the incident along with SP City Aparna Gautam, CO City Surendra Natah and other officials rushed the spot and supervised the rescue operation. “All the vehicles were removed from highway using cranes. Few injured are being treated at district hospital, while few others were referred to Kanpur and Saifai,” said DM Abhishek Singh further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-injured-in-pile-up-on-auraiya-highway/articleshow/79632414.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot man booked for obstructing police from duty||RAJKOT: A man and his two sons are booked under section 186 (obstructing public servant from discharging duty) on Monday evening by Kuvadva police station of Rajkot. According to police, Rohit Morvadiya was stopped by the traffic police near Sant Hanuman for not wearing mask and asked to pay the fine. He called his brother Himmat and father Babu. The accused refused to pay penalty and sat on the road blocking traffic. The constable on duty Hamir Sabad filed a complaint with police station against Morvadiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-booked-for-obstructing-police-from-duty/articleshow/79631069.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Another marriage garden sealed in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Led by Hawa Mahal Zone deputy commissioner Surendra Kumar Yadav, a team sealed Palm Resort Marriage Garden at Jaisinghpura Khor for not following Covid guidelines. Fine was imposed on the garden owner and it will remain sealed till further notice. Surendra Yadav, zonal deputy commissioner, said that a fine of Rs 25,000 has been imposed and the garden will remain sealed until the owner gives an affidavit that he will follow the rules properly. Two days back, JMC had sealed a marriage garden for not following social distancing norms and inviting more than 100 people. The garden was opened after giving a warning. Meanwhile, the Marriage Garden Association of Rajasthan is objecting to this step. The association had given a memorandum to Shanti Dhariwal, minister of local self-government, on Monday against the sealing of marriage gardens by the authorities. They urged to take action against the organisers and not garden owners. On Tuesday, 531 people were also challaned and fined in both JMC, Heritage and Greater for not following Covid guidelines issued by the government. Similarly, on directions of deputy commissioner, Kishanpol, Ram Kishore Meena, the team sealed Himachal Juice Center located in Polo Victory Ward 63 for flouting covid norms. Besides, a team of deputy Commissioner Abha Beniwal in Sanganer Zone challaned 105 people who did not wear masks and flouted social distancing norms and imposed a fine of Rs 49,500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/another-marriage-garden-sealed/articleshow/79632403.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||Protests remain peaceful, police seal Bhopal borders||BHOPAL: Police maintained a strict vigil across the city on Tuesday in wake of the Bharat Bandh call over ongoing farmer protest and did not allow any suspicious movement into the city. Barring a few minor protests at some markets and traffic squares, the city remained by and large peaceful and markets remained open throughout the day. In addition to the police force of around 2200 deployed at around 150 chekpoints in the city and outskirts, police patrolling teams and senior police officers conducted strict vigil throughout the day. Despite the tight security arrangements, a group of farmers from Raisen and Vidisha along with local farmers managed to reach Chunabhatti trisection and staged a sit-in under the banner of Rashtriya Kisan Majdur Sangathan. The farmers claimed that several farmers on board the tractors heading for the dharna site were stopped at check posts by cops and not allowed to enter the city. Some of them used bikes to dodge the cops. Meanwhile, members of the Sikh community gathered at Board Office square and took out a march till Jyoti Talkies Square in the morning protesting the new farm laws. They tried to force a sweet shop in MP Nagar Zone-1 to close, but police stopped and counselled them not to force any shopkeeper. ASP (Zone-1) Rajat Saklecha said that only one case was registered in connection with the farmers protest at Arera Hills police station. Police were talking with the farmers sitting on protest at Chunabhatti and counselling them to leave. DIG Irshad Wali said that police were monitoring the situation minutely and no major protest were witnessed in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/protests-remain-peaceful-police-seal-city-borders/articleshow/79632406.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Tag JMC mayor on Twitter for sanitation complaints||JAIPUR: JMC, Greater mayor Somya Gurjar has announced that residents can directly tag her on twitter to register any compliant. Till now, residents could register complaints on online portal but for better transparency this initiative has been announced. Citizens have to tag @somyagurjar or @Nagarnigamgreater on twitter by explaining their complaints in detail. At present, citizens can file online complaints on Sampark Portal or can call JMC, Greater helpline. Gurjar said that it is important to have transparency in the system. "A system is in place but I don’t get to know how many complaints are resolved. On Sunday, I took a ‘Jan Sunwai’ in Vidhyadhar Nagar zone but realized that the officials would sweep the roads and pick up garbage before I reached the spot. So, I decided to directly connect with the people," said Gurjar. She further said that she keeps a track on her twitter handle and has also asked officials to do the same, especially in the official account. At present, more than 2,500 complaints are pending in JMC, Greater. Most of the complaints are filed on door-to-door garbage collection vehicles not coming on time and on the damaged streetlights. A JMC official on condition of anonymity said, "There is a need to tighten the officials to resolve the complaints being filed every day. There are areas where hoopers are going once a week and sanitation condition is pathetic. Officials have to be dealt with strictness to get better results."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tag-jmc-mayor-on-twitter-for-sanitation-complaints/articleshow/79632408.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kanpur||Bharat Bandh: Police detain several Oppn leaders in city||Kanpur: Several opposition leaders, including former CPM MP Subhashini Ali, former Congress MP Rajaram Pal, Congress party MLA from Cantt Sohail Akhtar Ansari, Samajwadi Party MLA from Arya Nagar Amitabh Bajpai and Congress district president Har Prakash Agnihotri were put under house arrest on early Tuesday morning in view of the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws.  “Several women police constables were made to sit near the entrance of my house in Civil Lines,” alleged CPM leader Subhasini Ali. She said that she was supposed to go to the Shikshak Park in Naveen Market area along with the party supporters to take part in the Bharat Bandh and express solidarity with farmers, but was prevented by police from doing so. “Both the Centre and the state have taken dictatorial measures to suppress farmers’ protest. They (farmers) are our `anna-data’ (food providers) and need us in the time of distress”, she said. “We were put under house arrest ever since early Tuesday morning. Police did not permit us to leave the residence,” said Congress MLA Sohail Akhtar Ansari. Similarly, police foiled the bid of SP MLA Amitabh Bajpai to reach Shikshak Park to take part in the Bharat Bandh by putting him under house arrest. “In democracy, the opposition has a right to stage protest in support of the genuine demands of the people but the Central and the state governments are preventing us from doing so which is not only against the democratic principles but also against the country’sConstitution. Come what may, I will go to Shikshak Park along with the party workers and supporters to take part in the Bharat Bandh. Police are free to arrest us,” Bajpai said. Congress leader Karishma Thakur was put under house arrest in the Rail Bazar area. Former Congress MP Raja Ram Pal was also taken into custody at the Gandhi statue in Phoolbagh. Neighbouring Unnao too saw a mixed response to the ‘Bharat Bandh call. Most of the shops in the city remained open as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bharat-bandh-police-detain-several-oppn-leaders-in-city/articleshow/79632451.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government issues guidelines for final exams, promoting school students||JAIPUR: Classroom teaching is not being held in the wake of the pandemic and government has moved on to other alternative modes of teaching — digital classes, homework and content being made available online. Now, Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner has issued guidelines regarding division of marks in exams in different classes for RBSE board schools, in both private and government ones. Board exams are proposed to be conducted from May 15, 2021 for which directions will be issued later. Students are now allowed to visit schools for any doubt redressal and now, government has allowed to give them homework during these sessions, for classes IX to XII. Teachers have to maintain portfolios of every student’s homework that will be used to mark students in internal assessment as well. The syllabus was recently reduced by the education department and in board exams, 20% marks will depend on internal assessment that will include homework and 80% on the board exams. For classes XI and XII numbers of practical exams will be added separately from the internal exam. Schools have been advised to call students to practise for practical papers in school laboratories at least once a week for classes XI and XII. Pandemic guidelines have to be followed while doing practicals. Government has decided to add objective questions in final exams, in both boards and general exams. Even in short answers and essay-type questions, more options will be given to students to chose between different questions. Guidelines for other classes have also been issued with an objective to make students prepare for the exam pattern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-issues-guidelines-for-final-exams-promoting-school-students/articleshow/79632447.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan's Indira Rasoi served 1 crore people in over three months||JAIPUR: The state government’s ambitious Indira Rasoi scheme has provided meals at subsidised rates to 1 crore people within a span of three and half months. Under the scheme, which is named after former prime minister Indira Gandhi, meals are provided at Rs 8 in 358 rasois situated at 213 urban local bodies across the state. Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal said During pandemic times, the state government ensured that no poor sleeps without food and these kitchens turned out to be successful model. An official said in the municipalities 300 food plates are been sold per day, while the figure is 600 per day in municipal corporation and municipal councils’ areas. “The number can be increased up to 100% if required. The state has a daily food capacity of 1,33,500 plates. There is a target of distributing 4.87 crore lunches/diners annually, on which Rs 100 crore will be spent every year,” said an official. It was informed the food is available between 8am and 1pm and 5pm to 8pm in the evening. District administrations and local self-government (LSG) departments are regularly monitoring the quality of food. A menu of 100 gram of pulses, 100 gram of vegetables, 250 gram of chapati and pickle has been fixed by the government. An official said, “To develop the infrastructure, the state government has provided Rs 4.87 lakh to each operator. Every year, Rs 2 lakh grant will also be provided. The cost per plate will be Rs 20, however, it will be provided on subsidised rates. The consumer has to pay only Rs 8 per plate. The operators are also maintaining social distancing and sanitise the kitchen regularly,” he said. After the change in regime, the Congress government had overhauled the Annapurna Rasoi scheme launched by former chief minister Vasundhara Raje to serve food at subsidised rates across the state. The reason for the move is that the existing Congress government wants to provide food to the poor after spending money in a transparent manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/indira-rasoi-served-1-crore-people-in-over-3-months/articleshow/79632435.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Fire breaks out in Dwarka hospital||RAJKOT: A massive inferno that could be seen even from a great distance engulfed a four-storey hospital building located opposite old municipality building in Dwarka town of Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Tuesday afternoon. Luckily, no one was inside the building when the inferno gutted the entire hospital building. According to sources, fire erupted at Aditya Hospital owned by dentist Dr Prithviraj Chauhan at around 1:30 pm and soon the blaze engulfed all the four floors (ground plus three storey). “We rushed to the spot as soon as we received the fire call. It took us almost an hour to bring the blaze under control. Short-circuit may have sparked the fire in the hospital from either the ground floor or first floor in the building,” said a fire officer from Dwarka municipality. According to sources, the medical store was located on the ground floor and the hospital was on the first floor. On the second and third floor, furniture work was underway. All the medicines, medical equipment and furniture gutted into the massive. The fire also spread to an adjacent closed house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fire-breaks-out-in-dwarka-hospital/articleshow/79631075.cms||---
December 9, 2020||World||NZ mosque attacks: Report faults focus on Islamist terror risks||WELLINGTON: New Zealand security agencies were almost exclusively focused on the perceived threat of Islamist terrorism before a white supremacist gunman killed 51 Muslim worshippers in Christchurch on March 15, 2019, a report into the country’s worst massacre found. The Royal Commission of Inquiry also criticised police for failing to enforce proper checks when granting a firearms licence to Brenton Tarrant. But despite the shortcomings, the report found no failings within government agencies that would have prevented the attack. “The commission made no findings that these issues would have stopped the attack. But these were both failings and for that I apologise,” PM Jacinda Ardern said. The report said there was an “inappropriate concentration of resources” on the threat of Islamist terror.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/nz-mosque-attacks-report-faults-focus-on-islamist-terror-risks/articleshow/79634808.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Commercial spaces stay open in Cyberabad||Hyderabad: Several malls, hotels, showrooms and other commercial establishments in the Cyberabad region remained open on Tuesday, despite the bandh call. Though there were multiple protests and rallies, life remained largely unaffected along the IT corridor. “I had to travel to Hi-Tec City from Secunderabad for an interview and was worried that I might not find buses or autos. To be on the safe side, I even borrowed my friend’s bike. But when I reached that part of town, I was surprised to see that there was no impact of the bandh. Most markets remained open with business as usual and I could see autos and cabs on the roads as well,” said Naresh J, a resident of Secunderabad. While buses stayed off the roads for many hours, commuters did not face too much trouble as autos were found plying on the roads as usual. By afternoon, many were even seen heading to malls and popular eateries in the area. “My friends and I wanted to grab lunch and were surprised to see that malls were open. We spent most of the afternoon at a mall in Gachibowli,” said Charan K, a student. In a few places like at Cyber Towers, Raidurgam, protestors were seen blocking traffic that caused some inconvenience to commuters. Many were seen without masks and flouting social distancing norms. “I was heading towards Miyapur from Jubilee Hills and was surprised to see protesters sitting on roads, blocking ongoing traffic from all sides. Police were present at the spot but were just redirecting the motorists instead of stopping the protesters,” said Vishali M, a techie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commercial-spaces-stay-open-in-cyberabad/articleshow/79632484.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan logs lowest single-day rise in Covid cases in last 3 months||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest single-day spike in the past three months with 1,604 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The last time state had breached 1,600-mark was on September 9, when it reported 1,610 Covid infections. On September 8, the state had reported 1,590 Covid cases. After recording sequential daily highs, which took the infections to a record high of 3,314 cases on November 24, owing to the festive season. Since then, the count of daily infections has been going down and it touched the lowest mark since the past three months. The health department officials attributed the reduction in daily count to the aggressive measures taken in worst-affected districts of the state. “We imposed night curfews along with creating awareness among the people for wearing face masks and to follow Covid guidelines,” said a senior health department official. The active cases, which hit a record high on November 29, when the state’s active cases touched 28,758. Since then, the active cases have been going down. Currently, the state has 20,875 active cases. Besides, twenty persons died, while 1,604 tested positive for Covid in the state on Tuesday, bringing its overall tally to 2,84,116. With 20 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,468. Districts which reported new cases were: Jaipur (465), Jodhpur (187), Ajmer (140), Udaipur (134), Bharatpur (81), Kota (66), Nagaur (57), Alwar (57), Pali (47), Rajsamand (38), Bundi (37), Bikaner (35), Bhilwara (33), Hanumangarh (25), Jalore (25), Tonk (21), among others. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 463, four persons died in Kota taking its toll to 151, two persons died in Ajmer taking its casualties to 202, two persons died in Pali taking its toll to 97, two persons died in Nagaur taking its fatalities to 82, Bharatpur 115th, Sikar 85th, Jhunjhunu 43rd, Karauli 20th, Dausa 20th and Jhalawar reported its 20th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-logs-lowest-single-day-rise-in-covid-cases-in-last-3-months/articleshow/79636211.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Control rooms set up in Sariska and Ranthambore to curb wildlife crime||JAIPUR: To control the wildlife crime in the state’s tiger reserves, control rooms have been set up in Ranthambore National Park (RNP) and Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR). The villagers and wildlife lovers can contact these control rooms to report crimes or illegal activities occurring in forest areas. Information to rescue wildlife animals can also be provided at these stations. An officer in RNP said, “On Tuesday, a wireless control room was established in forest department headquarters in Sawai Madhopur. People can report us at 07462- 220530,” he said. Taking a lead, on December 4, the STR also launched in control room and contact number 9662881277 was distributed to the locals. Field director of Sariska Tiger Reserve, R N Meena said, “The initiative is showing positive response and so far, we have received three complaints. The move has strengthened the forest department’s patrolling. Three staff members are also deployed 24X7, for the same,” he said. After a camera trap picture with a wire snare around the neck of tiger T-108 in (RNP) surfaced last week, the forest department on Saturday issued a red alert in all tiger reserves, sanctuaries and parks in Rajasthan. Taking a serious note of the poaching incidents, Shruti Sharma, head of the forest force (HOFF) also cancelled the leaves of all the field officers till February on Saturday and issued directions for effective patrolling in all the protected areas to curb illegal activities. Sources claims, the forest is receiving little assistance from the Wildlife Surveillance and Anti-Poaching System (WS and APS), which was aimed for effective monitoring and surveillance of wildlife animals. A source at STR said, “There are 16 cameras installed at the Sariska and majority of them are non- functional. The responsible firm for maintenance has been contacted several times. But the firm has expressed it helplessness citing payment dues,” he said. The forest officials at RNP also highlighted shortage of staff at the reserve, which is major hindrance in effective ground monitoring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/control-rooms-set-up-in-sariska-and-ranthambore-to-curb-wildlife-crime/articleshow/79632463.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt doctors protest ‘mixopathy’||Coimbatore: More than 70 government doctors and staff protested in front of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Tuesday against the National Educational Policy 2020 that proposes blending of modern medicine curriculum with ayurveda, naturopathy, unani, homeopathy and siddha and vice-a-versa, and the move to allow ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. Recently, amendments were made to the Indian Medicine Central Council (PG Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016, allowing ayurveda postgraduates to get trained in and perform 58 surgical procedures such as ophthalmology, orthopaedics and dental procedures. Stating that such practices would only put the lives of patients in danger, they have threatened a nationwide withdrawal of services on December 11. The doctors said the Niti Aayog had formed four committees - medical education, practice, public health and medical research - to formulate ways to integrate all systems of medicine into one system called ‘mixopathy’. In a statement, the government doctors and the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said the ‘mixopathy’ would be detrimental to the public. “The public are not guinea pigs to do research on them by thrusting ‘mixopathy’ system on them.” The protesting doctors, meanwhile, said “in the current state of advances in medical sciences, it will affect the credibility of our individual system.” The Indian Medical Association also wanted to know what ‘mixopathy’ doctors would do about pre-anaesthetic medication? “What about anaesthesia? Does Ayush have its own anaesthesia drugs and procedures?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-doctors-protest-mixopathy/articleshow/79632489.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Allahabad||Now, AU teachers to hold online classes from univ campus||Prayagraj: In the backdrop of the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) regarding re-opening of the university campus and teaching in post lockdown period, authorities of the Allahabad University (AU) have decided that the teaching faculty would now have to visit the campus to conduct online classes from Monday to Friday. However, on Saturdays, heads of respective departments and centres would ensure that the entire department is sanitised to start functioning from Monday onwards. The present academic session on the campus has commenced from November 2 while adopting online mode of teaching and also extending online classes on Saturdays. Till now, most of the teaching faculty members were taking classes from home but the new vice-chancellor, Prof Sangita Srivastava, soon after taking over the charge, had made it clear that now the teachers would have to come to the university and take online classes from the campus itself. Postgraduate students and research scholars in the science and technology stream may continue to do experiments in the laboratory as earlier. However, keeping in mind the urgency and requirements of the teaching, all faculty members would continue taking their classes on Saturdays from home so that there is no loss of teaching hours and work. All the departments and centres have been asked to display their modified time-table accordingly. Moreover, on the approval of the VC, AU registrar Prof N K Shukla has notified some changes that have been made in the administrative posts on the campus. Among these changes, Prof Syed Ibrahim Rizvi of the department of Biochemistry has been appointed as chairman of the Institute of Professional Studies (IPS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/now-au-teachers-to-hold-online-classes-from-univ-campus/articleshow/79632501.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Officials take steps to attach assets of accused in six districts||AURANGABAD: The authorities from Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani, Nanded, Hingoli and Nashik districts have started initiating steps to attach immovable properties of the accused in the multi-level marketing scam that was exposed in the year 2014. The first offence against Deepak Parkhe and his wife Divya, who headed Super Power Investment Pvt Ltd, was registered at the Jawaharnagar police station in Aurangabad city on July 25, 2014. A total of 13 people, including the couple, were made accused and arrested on the charges of cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. The accused were also charged with the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in financial establishment) Act 1999 and Prize chits and money circulation scheme (banning) Act 1978. Some of them continue to remain behind bars. Police have filed a chargesheet in different districts where offences were registered and the cases are at different stages of trial. According to police, the accused got their company registered with the ministry of corporate affairs. They started operations in 2011 and promised three-fold returns to investors after a stipulated time but reneged on it. Lawyer Mohanish Thorat has filed a criminal writ petition in the case demanding that the investors’ money be returned “The investigation officers from these six districts have found that around 2,000 people have been duped to the tune of over Rs 200 crore by the accused. However, many more people may have been duped,” he said. Thorat claimed that the files for the attachment of property were gathering dust until the Bombay high court recently called for the status report. As per the communications accessed by TOI, the process has initiated to attach immovable property, including four in Parbhani district, one each in Lonar of Buldhana district, Jalna district and Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/officials-take-steps-to-attach-assets-of-accused-in-6-districts/articleshow/79633778.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||No headway in constable’s death||Jaipur: There is no headway in the death of a constable who was killed after being hit by a bike in city two days back.A speeding motorcycle hit the crime branch constable in Shyam Nagar area when he was going to report for duty at the CID-CB office on Sunday morning. Police claim that there were no CCTV cameras in the area. The deceased was identified as Chandrashekhar (56), who stayed close to Shyam Nagar Mandi. "The problem that we are facing is that the there were no CCTVs placed close to the accident spot. Now, we are trying to look at the CCTV cameras placed before and after the accident site to spot the accused," said an official of accident police station (south). The constable was crossing the road to catch a bus to reach his workplace when a speeding bike hit him. Traffic police personnel took him to the hospital, but after a few hours of treatment, he succumbed to the injuries. Officials claimed that the bike had to be at a substantially high speed because of which the constable suffered fatal injuries. Elaborating on the investigation, the official said, "it appears that there was only one person on the bike as per the eyewitnesses and we are looking at all angles of the case. The constable had no animosity with anyone due to which he may have been killed. There are no indications of any foul play". Last month, a police constable aspirant had been killed on Sodala elevated road when a speeding SUV hit him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-headway-in-constables-death/articleshow/79632482.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan logs lowest single-day rise in Covid cases in last 3 months||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest single-day spike in the past three months with 1,604 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The last time state had breached 1,600-mark was on September 9, when it reported 1,610 Covid infections. On September 8, the state had reported 1,590 Covid cases. After recording sequential daily highs, which took the infections to a record high of 3,314 cases on November 24, owing to the festive season. Since then, the count of daily infections has been going down and it touched the lowest mark since the past three months. The health department officials attributed the reduction in daily count to the aggressive measures taken in worst-affected districts of the state. “We imposed night curfews along with creating awareness among the people for wearing face masks and to follow Covid guidelines,” said a senior health department official. The active cases, which hit a record high on November 29, when the state’s active cases touched 28,758. Since then, the active cases have been going down. Currently, the state has 20,875 active cases. Besides, twenty persons died, while 1,604 tested positive for Covid in the state on Tuesday, bringing its overall tally to 2,84,116. With 20 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,468. Districts which reported new cases were: Jaipur (465), Jodhpur (187), Ajmer (140), Udaipur (134), Bharatpur (81), Kota (66), Nagaur (57), Alwar (57), Pali (47), Rajsamand (38), Bundi (37), Bikaner (35), Bhilwara (33), Hanumangarh (25), Jalore (25), Tonk (21), among others. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 463, four persons died in Kota taking its toll to 151, two persons died in Ajmer taking its casualties to 202, two persons died in Pali taking its toll to 97, two persons died in Nagaur taking its fatalities to 82, Bharatpur 115th, Sikar 85th, Jhunjhunu 43rd, Karauli 20th, Dausa 20th and Jhalawar reported its 20th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-logs-lowest-single-day-rise-in-covid-cases-in-last-3-months/articleshow/79632494.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan logs lowest single-day rise in Covid cases in last 3 months||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest single-day spike in the past three months with 1,604 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The last time state had breached 1,600-mark was on September 9, when it reported 1,610 Covid infections. On September 8, the state had reported 1,590 Covid cases. After recording sequential daily highs, which took the infections to a record high of 3,314 cases on November 24, owing to the festive season. Since then, the count of daily infections has been going down and it touched the lowest mark since the past three months. The health department officials attributed the reduction in daily count to the aggressive measures taken in worst-affected districts of the state. “We imposed night curfews along with creating awareness among the people for wearing face masks and to follow Covid guidelines,” said a senior health department official. The active cases, which hit a record high on November 29, when the state’s active cases touched 28,758. Since then, the active cases have been going down. Currently, the state has 20,875 active cases. Besides, twenty persons died, while 1,604 tested positive for Covid in the state on Tuesday, bringing its overall tally to 2,84,116. With 20 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,468. Districts which reported new cases were: Jaipur (465), Jodhpur (187), Ajmer (140), Udaipur (134), Bharatpur (81), Kota (66), Nagaur (57), Alwar (57), Pali (47), Rajsamand (38), Bundi (37), Bikaner (35), Bhilwara (33), Hanumangarh (25), Jalore (25), Tonk (21), among others. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 463, four persons died in Kota taking its toll to 151, two persons died in Ajmer taking its casualties to 202, two persons died in Pali taking its toll to 97, two persons died in Nagaur taking its fatalities to 82, Bharatpur 115th, Sikar 85th, Jhunjhunu 43rd, Karauli 20th, Dausa 20th and Jhalawar reported its 20th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-logs-lowest-single-day-rise-in-covid-cases-in-last-3-months/articleshow/79636210.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan logs lowest single-day rise in Covid cases in last 3 months||JAIPUR: The state reported its lowest single-day spike in the past three months with 1,604 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The last time state had breached 1,600-mark was on September 9, when it reported 1,610 Covid infections. On September 8, the state had reported 1,590 Covid cases. After recording sequential daily highs, which took the infections to a record high of 3,314 cases on November 24, owing to the festive season. Since then, the count of daily infections has been going down and it touched the lowest mark since the past three months. The health department officials attributed the reduction in daily count to the aggressive measures taken in worst-affected districts of the state. “We imposed night curfews along with creating awareness among the people for wearing face masks and to follow Covid guidelines,” said a senior health department official. The active cases, which hit a record high on November 29, when the state’s active cases touched 28,758. Since then, the active cases have been going down. Currently, the state has 20,875 active cases. Besides, twenty persons died, while 1,604 tested positive for Covid in the state on Tuesday, bringing its overall tally to 2,84,116. With 20 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,468. Districts which reported new cases were: Jaipur (465), Jodhpur (187), Ajmer (140), Udaipur (134), Bharatpur (81), Kota (66), Nagaur (57), Alwar (57), Pali (47), Rajsamand (38), Bundi (37), Bikaner (35), Bhilwara (33), Hanumangarh (25), Jalore (25), Tonk (21), among others. Four persons died in Jaipur taking its Covid deaths to 463, four persons died in Kota taking its toll to 151, two persons died in Ajmer taking its casualties to 202, two persons died in Pali taking its toll to 97, two persons died in Nagaur taking its fatalities to 82, Bharatpur 115th, Sikar 85th, Jhunjhunu 43rd, Karauli 20th, Dausa 20th and Jhalawar reported its 20th Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-logs-lowest-single-day-rise-in-covid-cases-in-last-3-months/articleshow/79636212.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chennai||SC allows Chennai-Salem road; no bar on acquiring farmlands||CHENNAI: In a blow to farmers opposing the Chennai-Salem 277-km eight-lane greenfield corridor, proposed at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the notification to acquire farmlands, and allowed Centre to proceed with the project. “The central government and/or NHAI may proceed further in the matter in accordance with law for acquisition of notified lands for construction of a national highway or the proposed section/stretch Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem, being NH 179A and 179B,” ruled a bench of Justice A M Khanwilkar, Justice B R Gawai and Justice Krishna Murari on Tuesday. As a consolation for the farmers affected by the project, the judges upheld a part of the Madras high court order which ordered reversal of entries or mutation of records of those lands which are merely identified and not taken possession of. “We agree with the high court that until the acquisition process is completed and possession of land is taken, the question of altering the mutation entry merely on the basis of notification under Section 3A (express intention to acquire land for the purpose of building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway) of the National Highways Act, 1956 cannot be countenanced and, therefore, the earlier entries ought to be restored,” said the judges. The bench was passing orders on the appeals filed against the madras high court orders, by the central government and the NHAI, besides a batch of intervener pleas from farmers. Negativing almost every ground of the high court order, the apex court concurred with the central government’s submission that none of central enactments/rules specify any express condition requiring central government to obtain prior environmental/forest clearance before issuing notification under Section 2(2) declaring the stretch/section to be a national highway or Section 3A of the NH Act to express intention to acquire land for the purpose of building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway. “It is amply clear that at the stage of issuing notifications under Section 2(2) or for that matter, Section 3A of the Act, there is no need to seek prior permission (by the Central Government) under environmental laws or the forest laws, as the case may be,” the judges said. The acquisition process set in motion upon issue of Section 3A notification can go on in parallel until the stage of publication of notification under Section 3D, which can be issued after grant of clearances/permissions by the competent authority under the environment/forest laws and attaining finality, they said. As for the farmers’ contention that the original project was expansion of Chennai-Madurai highway and that it was changed into a Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem greenfield corridor arabitrarily and that even the same consultant was retained without adopting mandatory procedure, the judges the decision was taken by a committee of experts after taking into all relevant issues into consideration. Also, “the Central Government had full authority to adopt such a change of stretch/section, by way of substitution/replacement whilst ensuring that there is no need for higher budgetary allocation than envisaged in the already approved programme for Phase I.” As for the project-affected people’s right to question environmental and other clearances for the greenfield corridor, the judges made it clear that they had not expressed any opinion on the correctness and validity of permissions/clearances accorded by the competent authorities under environment and forest laws, and added: “Therefore, it would be open to the affected persons to question the validity thereof on grounds, as may be permissible, before the appropriate forum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sc-allows-chennai-salem-road-no-bar-on-acquiring-farmlands/articleshow/79632524.cms||A Subramani
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||City schools closed till Jan 3, rural ones to reopen on Mon||Nagpur: All city schools will remain closed till January 3 while those in rural Nagpur will reopen from December 14, as per a decision taken on Wednesday by civic and district officials, respectively.Nagpur Municipal Commissioner (NMC) Radhakrishnan B issued orders to extend school closure date from the previous December 13 schedule. The civic chief stated that a second wave of Covid-19 is being seen in many countries. He added that even in India, some states like Delhi are witnessing a spike in cases. Radhakrishnan said that though the situation in Nagpur is under control, precautions need to be taken as “we are just coming out of the Diwali festivities period”.Schools in rural Nagpur, however, are all set to reopen from Monday. District collector Ravindra Thakare confirmed the development to TOI saying that orders are being issued for the same. Till the time of going to press, the order had not yet been signed.TOI spoke to a few high-enrolment CBSE schools that are located in rural Nagpur. The general view seemed to be in favour of reopening. “I believe those in Std X and XII will definitely come as it’s a crucial year for them. And as the days go by, confidence level will build up among other parents,” a principal said.Schools had done a survey just after Diwali vacation and an average of 15-20% parents had responded positively. Another principal said, “That time the response was low because many still had fear of what impact Diwali will have. Now that danger time, the two-week period following Diwali, has gone and I am sure more parents will give their consent.”TOI had reported earlier that a majority of schools have decided to wait till the official order comes for rural reopening before seeking parents consent. Last month’s flip-flop on school reopening has created a trust deficit. While NMC has played it safe by making its deferment plan official well in advance, the district collector’s office is slightly dragging its feet.A CBSE school’s principal said, “If they have taken a decision to reopen, then type that letter, sign it and send. Why does it have to take a day or two for official issuance.”Ashnarayan Tiwari, another principal, said, “If rural schools reopen, all of their students are anyway coming from city. Their staff is also from city. It would have been best if the date was kept the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-schools-closed-till-jan-3-rural-ones-to-reopen-on-mon/articleshow/79650785.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||No separate guideline for bride, groom testing +ve||Jaipur: No separate guidelines is available for marriages if a bride or bridegroom tests positive for Covid-19. While state is witnessing the wedding season and hundreds of marriages are being solemnized in different parts of the state, incidents of bride and bridegrooms testing positive for Covid on the day of the marriage have come to light. A bride was found infected in Baran on Sunday, while a bridegroom tested positive for Covid in Alwar district on Monday. In the two districts, the district administration allowed the marriages of the Covid-infected persons but with precautions and allowing only five people to attend it. “No separate guidelines available for such cases, but in such cases the infected person should take all the precautions and wear a personal protection equipment and maintain distance with others, while other people like the pandit should wear PPE kit to avoid risk of spread of the virus,” said a senior health department official. In Baran, the district administration had helped a bride who had tested positive for Covid on the day of her marriage, when the family pleaded to the officials not to postpone the marriage. The officials had asked the family of bride to postpone the marriage but after a lot of requests, the district administration allowed the marriage at Covid care centre with precautions. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-separate-guideline-for-bride-groom-testing-ve/articleshow/79632525.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Commuters left stranded as cabs go off the roads||Hyderabad: Commuters in many parts of the city were left inconvenienced, on Tuesday, with majority of the cabs staying off the streets in support of the Bharat Bandh. About 51 cab and taxi associations, including those associated with app-based aggregators, decided to express their solidarity with the farmers and staged protests in different parts of Hyderabad. With limited availability of buses and auto-rickshaws too, travellers said they had a tough time getting to their destinations. “There were very few cabs and autos plying on the roads. I had to travel from Kukatpally to Begumpet and my ride was repeatedly getting cancelled,” said M Sanjana, an IT employee. Similarly, all TSRTC buses, including city services, went off the roads across the state. Passengers who not aware of this reached Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS) in the morning and were left stranded. State-wide operations of nearly 3,000 buses from MGBS were suspended due to the bandh. TSRTC officials said all the buses in districts too had suspended their services for the day. Political party members holding protests in different parts of the city also staged a dharna on metro rail track near KPHB, causing inconvenience to passengers travelling along that metro route. Meanwhile, trains operated as per schedule throughout the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/commuters-left-stranded-as-cabs-go-off-the-roads/articleshow/79632527.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Salem||SC allows Chennai-Salem road; no bar on acquiring farmlands||CHENNAI: In a blow to farmers opposing the Chennai-Salem 277-km eight-lane greenfield corridor, proposed at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore, the Supreme Court on Tuesday upheld the notification to acquire farmlands, and allowed Centre to proceed with the project. “The central government and/or NHAI may proceed further in the matter in accordance with law for acquisition of notified lands for construction of a national highway or the proposed section/stretch Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem, being NH 179A and 179B,” ruled a bench of Justice A M Khanwilkar, Justice B R Gawai and Justice Krishna Murari on Tuesday. As a consolation for the farmers affected by the project, the judges upheld a part of the Madras high court order which ordered reversal of entries or mutation of records of those lands which are merely identified and not taken possession of. “We agree with the high court that until the acquisition process is completed and possession of land is taken, the question of altering the mutation entry merely on the basis of notification under Section 3A (express intention to acquire land for the purpose of building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway) of the National Highways Act, 1956 cannot be countenanced and, therefore, the earlier entries ought to be restored,” said the judges. The bench was passing orders on the appeals filed against the madras high court orders, by the central government and the NHAI, besides a batch of intervener pleas from farmers. Negativing almost every ground of the high court order, the apex court concurred with the central government’s submission that none of central enactments/rules specify any express condition requiring central government to obtain prior environmental/forest clearance before issuing notification under Section 2(2) declaring the stretch/section to be a national highway or Section 3A of the NH Act to express intention to acquire land for the purpose of building, maintenance, management or operation of a national highway. “It is amply clear that at the stage of issuing notifications under Section 2(2) or for that matter, Section 3A of the Act, there is no need to seek prior permission (by the Central Government) under environmental laws or the forest laws, as the case may be,” the judges said. The acquisition process set in motion upon issue of Section 3A notification can go on in parallel until the stage of publication of notification under Section 3D, which can be issued after grant of clearances/permissions by the competent authority under the environment/forest laws and attaining finality, they said. As for the farmers’ contention that the original project was expansion of Chennai-Madurai highway and that it was changed into a Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem greenfield corridor arabitrarily and that even the same consultant was retained without adopting mandatory procedure, the judges the decision was taken by a committee of experts after taking into all relevant issues into consideration. Also, “the Central Government had full authority to adopt such a change of stretch/section, by way of substitution/replacement whilst ensuring that there is no need for higher budgetary allocation than envisaged in the already approved programme for Phase I.” As for the project-affected people’s right to question environmental and other clearances for the greenfield corridor, the judges made it clear that they had not expressed any opinion on the correctness and validity of permissions/clearances accorded by the competent authorities under environment and forest laws, and added: “Therefore, it would be open to the affected persons to question the validity thereof on grounds, as may be permissible, before the appropriate forum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/sc-allows-chennai-salem-road-no-bar-on-acquiring-farmlands/articleshow/79634969.cms||A Subramani
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Paresh Dhanani’s spat with Amreli cops during bandh goes viral||RAJKOT: While supporting the Bharat Bandh announced as part of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Congress leaders went around the markets in various talukas and district urging traders to support the bandh call. Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Paresh Dhanani, also had verbal altercation with the police in Amreli town on Tuesday. Dhanani was out on his two wheeler moving across markets of Amreli town asking traders to shut shops. He was stopped by the police and asked to surrender, but Dhanani asked cops not to touch him and resisted his detention. BJP leaders, too, came out on the roads to encourage traders to keep markets open. A video of Dhanani’s heated argument with the police went viral in which Dhanani is heard asking the police for what offence they wanted to detain him. The Congress leader is also heard saying that he was moving alone on the road and to protest is his right in democracy and the police cannot detain him. A mob had, however, gathered on the spot from where he succeed in getting out but within was detained shortly. Superintendent of police, Amreli, Nirlpt Rai said, “We suspected that he was putting pressure on traders to shut shops and could have create a law and order problem. He was not alone, but there was a two-wheeler rally. So, it was preventive detention and thereafter he was released.” Congress workers held protests since the morning in various parts of Rajkot and police detained 122 people including city Congress president Ashok Dangar and senior corporators of the party during the day for forcing traders to shut shops and burning tyres on the roads. Congress workers were successful in keeping shops closed in the esasten parts of the city like Chunaravad, Bhavnagar road, Dudhsagar road, Thorala and Gundavadi areas for the few hours in the morning. They also approached traders of Race Course Road, Yagnik Road and Palace Road asking them to support the bandh. Farmers along with Congress workers protested in Devbhumi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Amreli, Bhavnagar and Kutch districts. There was heavy police deployment across districts of Saurashtra since early morning. Four booked for curfew violationRajkot: Rajkot police booked four people including city Congress president Ashok Dangar under various sections of IPC. The B division police booked Tushar Nandani for burning tyre on Pedak road during curfew on Monday night on the behest of Dangar with the help of Jagdish Thunga and Babu Varu. They are booked under IPC sections 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) 336 (negligence) and epidemic disease Act. Five offences of violation of police notification was registered for the protest held at University Road, Mavdi overbridge, Yagnik Road, Trikon Baug and Jubeli garden. Rajkot market yard stays closedRajkot: The Rajkot market yard the biggest market yard of Saurashtra remained closed on Tuesday. The other major markets of Saurashtra like Gondal, Hapa Amreli, Bhavnagar and Mahuva remained open but there was very thin presence of the farmers. According to traders the trading was between 10 to 20 percent on Tuesday compare to normal days. Mithi Virdi farmers join protestRajkot: Farmers of Mithi Virdi and nearby Jaspara, Mandva and Paliyali villages in Bhavnagar district who ran a successful protest against the setting up of a nuclear plant there, joined in the Bharat Bandh to protest against the farm laws on Tuesday. Farmers in this region have adopted organic farming and have been selling their organic produce in Bhavnagar and Ahmedabad. “The government is busy in abolishing APMC to benefit the corporates rather then addressing the burning issues of farmers like minimum support price of farm produce, exploitation of farmers and irregular electricity for farming,” alleged Bharat Jambucha, a farmer leader. Bandh divides rural v/s urban supportWhile the impact of bandh was not visible in urban areas of Rajkot, Jamnagar, and Bhavnagar, the rural areas like Lodhika, Upleta, Maliya Hatina, Lalpur, Jamjodhpur, Dhoraji, Halvad, Moti Paneli and Keshod remained closed throughout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dhananis-spat-with-amreli-cops-during-bandh-goes-viral/articleshow/79631107.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||IMA stir against central govt for allowing AYUSH docs to do ops||Jaipur: Indian Medical Association (IMA) Rajasthan Chapter protested against Centre’s decision for allowing Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries in different parts of the state on Tuesday. “Thousands of doctors of modern medicine are feeling cheated today. Time and again our courts have heavily penalised doctors of other pathies found doing surgeries, therefore it will be huge injustice with patients also if an AYUSH doctor is awarded any such degree which is illegal in the eyes of law,” said Dr MN Thareja, president, IMA (Rajasthan chapter). Dr Thareja said they are protesting against proposed MS (Shalyatantra) degree in Ayurveda. “We are protesting to save allopathy being dragged down to trash due to promotion of mixopathy by the government,” said Dr Tarun Patni, president, Jaipur Medical Association. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ima-stir-against-central-govt-for-allowing-ayush-docs-to-do-ops/articleshow/79632556.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur to be vaccine storage hubs||JAIPUR: The state government has clarified that the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination will be launched in the state in 2021. The preparations are afoot for launching the vaccine in the state. The supply chain of Covid vaccine has been identified. The state vaccine stores in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur will be the major storage centres where the vaccines supplied by the centre will be kept. From the state’s vaccine store in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur, it will be supplied to the regional vaccine stores at each divisional headquarter. From the divisional headquarters, it will be supplied to vaccine storage at each district. From the district storage centre, it will be supplied to cold chain points, which are 2,444 in number and spread across the state. District task force for vaccination have been constituted under the chairmanship of the district collector at all the districts. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that in the first phase, personnel working with the government and private medical service and with the Women and Child Development Department in the state will get Covid vaccine first. He said that the vaccine operation guide was discussed in detail with the health department officers in a video conference organised by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. According to the Union health ministry guidelines, counting of beneficiaries of Covid vaccine will be done and their necessary database will be uploaded in ‘COVIN’ Software. He said that UNICEF, UNDP and World Health Organisation will extend technical assistance in this campaign. While it is planning to administer the vaccine first to healthcare workers, the state government has formed a three-tier system for the Covid vaccination campaign. The health department is still continuing collecting figures of government and private hosptials providing Covid treatment. A three-tier system for Covid vaccine campaign has been formed, which includes state steering committee, state task force and district task force for effective policy making, implementation, monitoring of vaccination. State steering committee is headed by chief secretary, state task force by secretary health, and district task force by district collector. The three-tier system is ensuring proper transportation, availability, ensuring availability of resources and implementation of vaccination programme at ground level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/jaipur-jodhpur-udaipur-to-be-vaccine-storage-hubs/articleshow/79636233.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks govt reply on more Spl courts||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the state government to file its reply (counter affidavit) in response to a PIL seeking establishment of more special courts in each and every district of Uttar Pradesh to adjudicate trials under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. According to the PIL, human trafficking in the entire Uttar Pradesh state is on the rise, but due to lack of courts no adequate steps have been taken to combat such trafficking. The petitioner supported the submission by placing on record several official documents as well as the studies done by different non-governmental organizations. Hearing a PIL filed by Guria Swayam Sevi Sansthan, division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Piyush Agrawal fixed January 18, 2021 as the next date of hearing of this matter. During the court proceedings, the counsel for the petitioner, Raj Kumar, also brought to the notice of the court an astonishing fact that even during the period of Covid-19 restrictions, such trafficking is rampant. A complete study done by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crimes was also placed on record wherein Chapter- 6A relates to human trafficking and its impact in different states of the country. Passing the above directives, the court observed, “Having considered all facts stated in the petition and the documents annexed thereto, we deem it appropriate to have response from the state government.” The court passed this order on December 7 that came to light on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-more-spl-courts/articleshow/79632571.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||3 held for smuggling ration rice||Coimbatore: Three men were arrested while trying to smuggle ration rice from the district to Kerala near the Anaikatti checkpost on Monday night. A total of 500kg of rice and a vehicle were seized in the joint operation by the flying squad of the supplies and consumer protection, food cell police and forest department. Based on a tip, officials were inspecting vehicles passing through the checkpost. Around 10pm, they stopped a vehicle with Kerala registration and checked it. Officials said Anand Kumar, 31, of Palakkad, Prakash, 25, of Annur in Coimbatore, and Ramesh, 28, of Pollachi were smuggling 500 kg of ration rice in it. “The accused had purchased the rice from multiple cardholders in small quantities and were planning to sell them in Kerala,” said S Sivakumar, special tahsildar (flying squad). The accused were booked under several sections of the Tamil Nadu scheduled commodities (regulation of distribution by card system) order and the Essential Commodities Act. They were later remanded in judicial custody. The seized rice was handed over to the food cell police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-held-for-smuggling-ration-rice/articleshow/79632572.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur to be vaccine storage hubs||JAIPUR: The state government has clarified that the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination will be launched in the state in 2021. The preparations are afoot for launching the vaccine in the state. The supply chain of Covid vaccine has been identified. The state vaccine stores in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur will be the major storage centres where the vaccines supplied by the centre will be kept. From the state’s vaccine store in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur, it will be supplied to the regional vaccine stores at each divisional headquarter. From the divisional headquarters, it will be supplied to vaccine storage at each district. From the district storage centre, it will be supplied to cold chain points, which are 2,444 in number and spread across the state. District task force for vaccination have been constituted under the chairmanship of the district collector at all the districts. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that in the first phase, personnel working with the government and private medical service and with the Women and Child Development Department in the state will get Covid vaccine first. He said that the vaccine operation guide was discussed in detail with the health department officers in a video conference organised by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. According to the Union health ministry guidelines, counting of beneficiaries of Covid vaccine will be done and their necessary database will be uploaded in ‘COVIN’ Software. He said that UNICEF, UNDP and World Health Organisation will extend technical assistance in this campaign. While it is planning to administer the vaccine first to healthcare workers, the state government has formed a three-tier system for the Covid vaccination campaign. The health department is still continuing collecting figures of government and private hosptials providing Covid treatment. A three-tier system for Covid vaccine campaign has been formed, which includes state steering committee, state task force and district task force for effective policy making, implementation, monitoring of vaccination. State steering committee is headed by chief secretary, state task force by secretary health, and district task force by district collector. The three-tier system is ensuring proper transportation, availability, ensuring availability of resources and implementation of vaccination programme at ground level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-udaipur-to-be-vaccine-storage-hubs/articleshow/79632543.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Udaipur||Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur to be vaccine storage hubs||JAIPUR: The state government has clarified that the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination will be launched in the state in 2021. The preparations are afoot for launching the vaccine in the state. The supply chain of Covid vaccine has been identified. The state vaccine stores in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur will be the major storage centres where the vaccines supplied by the centre will be kept. From the state’s vaccine store in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Udaipur, it will be supplied to the regional vaccine stores at each divisional headquarter. From the divisional headquarters, it will be supplied to vaccine storage at each district. From the district storage centre, it will be supplied to cold chain points, which are 2,444 in number and spread across the state. District task force for vaccination have been constituted under the chairmanship of the district collector at all the districts. Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that in the first phase, personnel working with the government and private medical service and with the Women and Child Development Department in the state will get Covid vaccine first. He said that the vaccine operation guide was discussed in detail with the health department officers in a video conference organised by the Union health ministry on Tuesday. According to the Union health ministry guidelines, counting of beneficiaries of Covid vaccine will be done and their necessary database will be uploaded in ‘COVIN’ Software. He said that UNICEF, UNDP and World Health Organisation will extend technical assistance in this campaign. While it is planning to administer the vaccine first to healthcare workers, the state government has formed a three-tier system for the Covid vaccination campaign. The health department is still continuing collecting figures of government and private hosptials providing Covid treatment. A three-tier system for Covid vaccine campaign has been formed, which includes state steering committee, state task force and district task force for effective policy making, implementation, monitoring of vaccination. State steering committee is headed by chief secretary, state task force by secretary health, and district task force by district collector. The three-tier system is ensuring proper transportation, availability, ensuring availability of resources and implementation of vaccination programme at ground level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/jaipur-jodhpur-udaipur-to-be-vaccine-storage-hubs/articleshow/79636231.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandh peaceful in Secunderabad, markets remain shut||SECUNDERABAD: The five-hour nationwide ‘Bharat Bandh’ evoked a good response and went off peacefully in Secunderabad on Tuesday. Telangana’s largest agricultural market yard, Dr BR Ambedkar Vegetable Market Yard, Bowenpally, in Secunderabad, closed voluntarily. Market committee chairman T N Srinivas along with Cantonment ward members and daily wage workers staged a protest, raising slogans against the NDA government at the Centre. All commercial establishments on RP Road, SP Road, Trimulgherry, Bowenpally, Karkhana, Rasoolpura and Bolarum observed complete shutdown during the five-hour period. Rathifile, Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) and Secunderabad railway station bus bays were deserted as TSRTC suspended city bus services. Train passengers faced inconvenience as buses to various destinations were suspended. Taking advantage of the situation, auto-rickshaw driver charged a bomb from passengers. The bandh call also impacted Metro rail service operations in the city. Over 300 TRS workers took out a bike rally from Monda Market and passed through Begumpet, Ameerpet, Sanatnagar, Yousufguda and Musheerabad. On normal days, Begumpet, Paradise and YMCA flyovers used to be chock-a-block with vehicles all through the day, but on Tuesday the flyovers were nearly empty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shut-shops-empty-bus-bays-and-bike-rally-mark-bandh-in-secbad/articleshow/79632563.cms||Sunil Mungara
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No ambulance, cops help techie take ill mom to hospital on bike||HYDERABAD: Unable to get an ambulance to shift his seriously ill mother to hospital during the ‘Bharat Bandh’, a techie in city’s IT corridor was forced to ferry her on his bike but was again caught in the bandh before cops rescued him. Sai Teja’s ordeal began around 9am after his mother, K Bharathi, fainted. “I immediately started seeking ambulance service. But I was informed that the ambulance of a nearby hospital was unavailable as it was out to get a patient and had not returned,” said Teja, who made dozens of frantic calls to get other ambulances but to no avail. Unaware of the situation on the road, Teja took his mother on a two-wheeler only to be stuck in traffic at the KPHB main road. “Initially, I thought it was an accident due to which there was so much of traffic jam. Later I was told that some people have blocked the road in view of the bandh due to which vehicles were unable to move forward,” said Teja. Worried about deteriorating condition of his mother, he sought help from the Cyberabad traffic police who then helped him take his mother to a private hospital on the Kukatpally road. The road was completely blocked due to protests in support of farmers, said a witness D Mahender, home guard, Kukatpally traffic police station. “After receiving the emergency call from the control room stating that the lady needed immediate medical assistance, we shifted them on the wrong side of the road and cleared the passage for them to reach the hospital,” said Bose Kiran, traffic inspector, Kukatpally traffic police. Teja’s mother was among hundreds of people in the city who bore the brunt of ‘Bharat Bandh’ as it took almost three hours for her to get medical assistance. Several netizens extended support to Teja. “I can understand the pain brother. I recollect the experience of shifting my mother from one hospital to another. Felt every second like an hour. Ambulance struck in traffic is the worst thing in our so-called global city,” tweeted Nanda Kishore Kapa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-ambulance-cops-help-techie-take-ill-mom-to-hospital-on-bike/articleshow/79634269.cms||Preeti Biswas
December 9, 2020||Surat||VNSGU teaching assistant found hanging at home in Surat||SURAT: A 32-year-old teaching assistant in the chemistry department of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) was found hanging from the ceiling in his residential quarter on the university campus on Tuesday. The deceased, Purnachandra Rao Satyanarayan Martha, is suspected to have hanged himself three days ago, police said. He got married on November 20 when he had gone to his in Warangal of Telangana district during Diwali vacation. Purnachandra had returned on Saturday. Purnachandra had got his PhD degree from NIT Tiruchirappalli. His family members contacted university officials on Tuesday when Purnachandra did not answer calls on his mobile. As there was no response to the calls of his colleagues too, university officials went to check at his quarter. They had to break open the door. The body was found hanging in the kitchen. No suicide note was found from the house. Police recovered his mobile phone from the house and it was seized for investigation. Purnachandra had joined VNSGU’s chemistry department in December 2019 and was allotted the quarter. He lived alone and was reclusive by nature. “Purnachandra returned on Saturday and we had a talk over the phone. As he did not come to work and all the calls of his relatives and colleagues went unanswered, we went to check at his quarter,” said Navin Patel, head of the chemistry department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-teaching-asst-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/79630175.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nashik||Cotton trader robbed of Rs 20 lakh, hunt on for three suspects||NASHIK: Three people in their 30s robbed a trader of Rs 20 lakh when he was going to Chalisgaon from Malegaon on Saturday evening. Sunil Chaudhary (44), a resident of Londhe village in Chalisgaon taluka, Jalgaon district, and his friend were going towards Chalisgaon on a motorcycle. When the two were crossing the Sayane village around 6.45pm, three unidentified people on a bike overtook their motorcyle and intercepted them. The suspects started beating Chaudhary and his friend with wooden sticks, pinned them to the ground and brandished a firearm. They snatched the bag containing Rs 20 lakh cash and fled the scene. Malegaon police said late in the night, Chaudhary registered an offence of armed robbery against the three suspects. Police said Chaudhary collected cotton produce from farmers in his village and the surroundings and sold it to traders in various parts of the district and other states. Recently, some traders, to whom Chaudhary had sold the cotton, had transferred his dues to another trader in Malegaon. On Saturday, Chaudhary had gone to collect the money from the concerned trader and was returning home when the robbery took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cotton-trader-robbed-of-rs-20-lakh-hunt-on-for-3-suspects/articleshow/79633783.cms||Santosh Sonawane
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||BJP, Congress workers in city clash, no one hurt||Jaipur: The BJP and the Congress workers clashed with each other near the BJP headquarters over sloganeering on Tuesday. The incident happened when NSUI and Youth Congress workers raising anti-Modi slogans bypassing the BJP headquarters left the BJP workers red-faced.An eyewitness said that both the groups were either side of the road. “The anti-Modi slogans were reciprocated with anti-Gandhi family slogans. The heated exchange soon turned into a scuffle between the two groups right outside the main gate,” said an eyewitness.However, the police present on the spot swung into action and disperse the crowd. Reportedly, no one was injured in the incident and no police complaint was filed by either of the party. Thereafter, heavy police have been deployed at the BJP office. Furious over the incident, BJP state president Satish Poonia, called the incident sponsored by the Congress to vent out their anger and frustration.“It has never happened in the history of Rajasthan politics that a mob of hooligans under the guise of Congress workers attacked a national party office. Gehlot government should be held responsible for the bid and we’ll see what action they will take on hooligans,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-congress-workers-in-city-clash-no-one-hurt/articleshow/79632588.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Bandh evokes mixed response in Rajasthan, largely peaceful||JAIPUR: The nationwide bandh called by protesting farmers and supported by the Congress government received a mixed response in the state on Tuesday. All major markets in the state — Johari Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar and MI Road in Jaipur; Dargah Bazaar and Naya Bazaar in Ajmer, Suraj pole and Delhi Gate in Udaipur — were closed. The agri markets across the state too remained closed. In Jaipur, the bandh in Walled City market area was led by transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who drove a tractor to garner support. The bandh has largely remained peaceful barring an incident of a minor clash between Congress and BJP workers over anti-Modi slogans in Jaipur. However, no police complaint was filed by either of the party. At some places protesters were at loggerheads with the shopkeepers and commuters when they were not complying with the bandh. By evening, very few establishments started operations. Manu Dixit, who runs a steel workshop at Ajmer Road, didn’t open his establishment for the day. “The bandh call was for the 3 pm but I thought to avoid any confrontation with the farmers or political activists so called the operations off,” said Dixit, a resident at Durgapura. Reports said that at least seven lakh trucks and over 2,800 RSRTC buses along with 200 JCTCL buses were off the roads in support Bharat bandh. Over 1,300 transport companies did not operate their trucks, Private operators, including cab owners, also supported the bandh. Pappu Lal Prajapati, president, Fal Sabzi Vypar Sangh, Muhana Mandi in Jaipur, said that they had closed the state’s biggest mandi from 10am to 2pm to express their solidarity with the protesting farmers. “The bandh has affected business of Rs 50 crore, but this is nothing compared to the cause we support. I hope that the government will listen to them and resolve the matter at the earliest,” he said. The mandi has over 1,000 shops. BJP has called the bandh a failure despite the support of the ruling government while Congress claimed the move ‘historic.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-largely-peaceful/articleshow/79632657.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chennai||NGO moves HC for comprehensive rehab policy for children||Chennai: A Delhi-based NGO has moved the Madras high court for a direction to Tamil Nadu government to draft holistic rehabilitation guidelines standard operating procedure fixing the role and responsibility of each stakeholder while rehabilitating children in need of care and protection/ conflict with law as directed by the Supreme Court.Bachpan Bachao Andolan also wanted to ensure that such guidelines prescribe personal liability, including departmental proceedings, against public servants for dereliction of duties entrusted under the child protection laws.This apart, the NGO wanted the court to direct the Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights to conduct an annual social audit of all the child care institutions in the state.Admitting the plea, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state government to file its response by January 20.According to the petitioner, the action of the state authorities is not consistent with the directions laid down by the Apex Court in Sampurna Behura case and warrants interference by the court.“The continued non-implementation of the directions has hampered the realisation of the object and purpose of the Juvenile Justice Act which is to ensure that the needs of the children are met, and their human rights are protected,” the NGO said.As per the Apex Court directions, management of child care institutions is extremely important, and the state government has to ensure that all such institutions are registered so that children can live a dignified life in such institutions, it said.Asserting that the situation of such institutions across the state is disheartening, the NGO said, “The institutions are lacking health and sanitation conditions, staff, adequate space to accommodate children and CCTV cameras.The crimes against children are still rampant across the country. There is an urgent need for more children homes in the state as the authorities are finding it difficult to house children in need of care, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngo-moves-hc-for-comprehensive-rehab-policy-for-children/articleshow/79630202.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Ajmer||Bandh evokes mixed response in Rajasthan, largely peaceful||JAIPUR: The nationwide bandh called by protesting farmers and supported by the Congress government received a mixed response in the state on Tuesday. All major markets in the state — Johari Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar and MI Road in Jaipur; Dargah Bazaar and Naya Bazaar in Ajmer, Suraj pole and Delhi Gate in Udaipur — were closed. The agri markets across the state too remained closed. In Jaipur, the bandh in Walled City market area was led by transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who drove a tractor to garner support. The bandh has largely remained peaceful barring an incident of a minor clash between Congress and BJP workers over anti-Modi slogans in Jaipur. However, no police complaint was filed by either of the party. At some places protesters were at loggerheads with the shopkeepers and commuters when they were not complying with the bandh. By evening, very few establishments started operations. Manu Dixit, who runs a steel workshop at Ajmer Road, didn’t open his establishment for the day. “The bandh call was for the 3 pm but I thought to avoid any confrontation with the farmers or political activists so called the operations off,” said Dixit, a resident at Durgapura. Reports said that at least seven lakh trucks and over 2,800 RSRTC buses along with 200 JCTCL buses were off the roads in support Bharat bandh. Over 1,300 transport companies did not operate their trucks, Private operators, including cab owners, also supported the bandh. Pappu Lal Prajapati, president, Fal Sabzi Vypar Sangh, Muhana Mandi in Jaipur, said that they had closed the state’s biggest mandi from 10am to 2pm to express their solidarity with the protesting farmers. “The bandh has affected business of Rs 50 crore, but this is nothing compared to the cause we support. I hope that the government will listen to them and resolve the matter at the earliest,” he said. The mandi has over 1,000 shops. BJP has called the bandh a failure despite the support of the ruling government while Congress claimed the move ‘historic.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-largely-peaceful/articleshow/79634982.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Udaipur||Bandh evokes mixed response in Rajasthan, largely peaceful||JAIPUR: The nationwide bandh called by protesting farmers and supported by the Congress government received a mixed response in the state on Tuesday. All major markets in the state — Johari Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar and MI Road in Jaipur; Dargah Bazaar and Naya Bazaar in Ajmer, Suraj pole and Delhi Gate in Udaipur — were closed. The agri markets across the state too remained closed. In Jaipur, the bandh in Walled City market area was led by transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who drove a tractor to garner support. The bandh has largely remained peaceful barring an incident of a minor clash between Congress and BJP workers over anti-Modi slogans in Jaipur. However, no police complaint was filed by either of the party. At some places protesters were at loggerheads with the shopkeepers and commuters when they were not complying with the bandh. By evening, very few establishments started operations. Manu Dixit, who runs a steel workshop at Ajmer Road, didn’t open his establishment for the day. “The bandh call was for the 3 pm but I thought to avoid any confrontation with the farmers or political activists so called the operations off,” said Dixit, a resident at Durgapura. Reports said that at least seven lakh trucks and over 2,800 RSRTC buses along with 200 JCTCL buses were off the roads in support Bharat bandh. Over 1,300 transport companies did not operate their trucks, Private operators, including cab owners, also supported the bandh. Pappu Lal Prajapati, president, Fal Sabzi Vypar Sangh, Muhana Mandi in Jaipur, said that they had closed the state’s biggest mandi from 10am to 2pm to express their solidarity with the protesting farmers. “The bandh has affected business of Rs 50 crore, but this is nothing compared to the cause we support. I hope that the government will listen to them and resolve the matter at the earliest,” he said. The mandi has over 1,000 shops. BJP has called the bandh a failure despite the support of the ruling government while Congress claimed the move ‘historic.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-largely-peaceful/articleshow/79634980.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: This late opportunity is the latest for them to enter world of letters||COIMBATORE: At nine, J Rabiamma was denied admission to the corporation primary school at Selvapuram North, citing her age. Her dreams crushed, she had no other option but to spend her days at home, looking after younger siblings. A mother of three children today, after 30 years she has got an opportunity to study at the same school, thanks to the Padhna Likhna Abhiyan (read and write campaign) initiative of the school education department. Rabiamma is elated as she sits in the classroom, learning to write her name in English. “I only knew certain letters in Tamil and to write my name. I was too scared of even attempting to read a word in front of others. While it was embarrassing to seek others’ help to fill forms at banks, I did not have any other option. But now, I am so happy that I could study, be it just the basics.” Her children are also studying in the same school. She was beaming with pride when she said she would sign her name only in English henceforth. P Palaniammal, 58, who has been working as a sweeper with the school for the past three years, hasn’t also missed the late opportunity to enter into the world of letters. “When the teachers informed me about the programme, I didn’t think twice to seize the opportunity as I knew I will never get another chance. My husband is also excited.” Like them, 12,188 people, who are aged above 15 years and illiterate, are attending the classes that are being conducted by Samagra Shiksha officials at 610 centres across the district. Started on November 30, the training programme would last till March when the ‘students’ will take an assessment test. The classes are conducted for two hours daily and the timing is fixed depending on the convenience of the ‘students’ as most of them are working. A school education department official said, “The government had conducted training programme for the illiterate from 1992 to 1998. After almost two decades, the Union government has restarted the programme to improve the literacy rate. According to the 2011 census, the district alone had 4.8 lakh illiterate people.” The department has roped in volunteers, who have studied above Class X, for teaching. They were identified through school headmasters and school management committees. ‘We have distributed workbooks to the students and teaching module to the volunteers, who would teach the former to read and write on their own, fill bank challans and forms to withdraw cash from post office and write letters and petitions.” They would also be taught life-oriented mathematics, basic usage of mobiles phones, online transactions, emergency numbers and important laws, the official said. S Gayathri, a volunteer who is teaching at the corporation school at Selvapuram North, said she would teach the candidates to read and write for five days a week and conduct a test every Monday. “All of them are excited to attend the classes and some people, who stay close to my house, come to me with their homework at my house. As the word spreads, more people are joining the class.” She said she would spend some time daily to prepare notes and hand-written question papers. Watch Coimbatore: Over 12,000 enthusiastic adults enter classes for first time||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/this-late-opportunity-is-the-latest-for-them-to-enter-world-of-letters/articleshow/79632617.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 9, 2020||Jodhpur||Bandh evokes mixed response in Rajasthan, largely peaceful||JAIPUR: The nationwide bandh called by protesting farmers and supported by the Congress government received a mixed response in the state on Tuesday. All major markets in the state — Johari Bazaar, Bapu Bazaar and MI Road in Jaipur; Dargah Bazaar and Naya Bazaar in Ajmer, Suraj pole and Delhi Gate in Udaipur — were closed. The agri markets across the state too remained closed. In Jaipur, the bandh in Walled City market area was led by transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, who drove a tractor to garner support. The bandh has largely remained peaceful barring an incident of a minor clash between Congress and BJP workers over anti-Modi slogans in Jaipur. However, no police complaint was filed by either of the party. At some places protesters were at loggerheads with the shopkeepers and commuters when they were not complying with the bandh. By evening, very few establishments started operations. Manu Dixit, who runs a steel workshop at Ajmer Road, didn’t open his establishment for the day. “The bandh call was for the 3 pm but I thought to avoid any confrontation with the farmers or political activists so called the operations off,” said Dixit, a resident at Durgapura. Reports said that at least seven lakh trucks and over 2,800 RSRTC buses along with 200 JCTCL buses were off the roads in support Bharat bandh. Over 1,300 transport companies did not operate their trucks, Private operators, including cab owners, also supported the bandh. Pappu Lal Prajapati, president, Fal Sabzi Vypar Sangh, Muhana Mandi in Jaipur, said that they had closed the state’s biggest mandi from 10am to 2pm to express their solidarity with the protesting farmers. “The bandh has affected business of Rs 50 crore, but this is nothing compared to the cause we support. I hope that the government will listen to them and resolve the matter at the earliest,” he said. The mandi has over 1,000 shops. BJP has called the bandh a failure despite the support of the ruling government while Congress claimed the move ‘historic.’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-largely-peaceful/articleshow/79634981.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Rallies in support of bandh held in dists||Hyderabad: It was an encore of the Telangana statehood agitation days for TRS cadre as they resorted to staging protests against the Centre’s farm laws and in support of agitating farmers in Delhi. Reminiscent of the innovative methods adopted to demand a separate Telangana state, TRS cadre resorted to the famous ‘Vanta Vaarpu’ programme of cooking on the road for those taking part in the agitation. Panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao participated in the cooking and also protests. Dayakar Rao was in TDP during the agitation, but joined TRS in 2016 after the party came to power in 2014 afer the formation of Telangana. Agriculture minister S Nirajan Reddy, who participated in the protests, also sat with the protesters for a meal served under the open sky. For police, it was a matter of carrying out some formalities as they removed the ministers from the scene where they were protesting. Women and child development minister Sathyavathi Rathod courted arrest in Mahbubabad, where she and TRS leaders took out a rally and staged a dharna. Some woman police personnel led her away, putting an end to her protests. But later, a video surfaced showing the minister and other TRS leaders sitting and chatting with police and watching television. Dayakar Rao too was removed in a police vehicle from where he was protesting and taken to a local police station where he also watered the plants. Sangareddy legislator T Jayaprakash Reddy of Congress, who staged a demonstration in support of agitating farmers, ‘cooperated’ with police as he showed no resistance in being put in a police vehicle and driven away. Most of those participating in the agitation, including health minister E Rajendar, took out bullock cart rallies and bike rallies. In Karimnagar, BJP workers questioned TRS leaders and minister Koppula Eashwar on why they were protesting when farmers in Telangana were not being given remunerative prices for their produce by the TRS government. Police intervened and took away BJP workers from the place. At some places, there were differences among TRS workers. In Medak, a section of TRS workers at Toopran were miffed that photographs of their leaders, who were with the party since its formation, were missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rallies-in-support-of-bandh-held-in-dists/articleshow/79632616.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 9, 2020||Allahabad||No bandh impact, Prayagrajmarkets remain open all day||Prayagraj: The Bharat bandh called by farmers and supported by Opposition did not have any impact in the Sangam city as markets and other commercial establishments remained open and functioned normally on Tuesday. The markets in Civil Lines, Chowk, Katra, Preetam Nagar, Sulemsarai, Kothaparcha, Ghantaghar, Mutthiganj, Phaphamau, Rajapur and Mundera mandi remained open throughout the day. Police detained over 400 workers of Samajwadi Party (SP), Congress, and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at reserve police lines after picking them up from different parts of the city. No untoward incident was reported anywhere. Earlier in the day, some SP workers stopped a train at Prayag junction around 7.30am to protest against the new farm laws and demanded their roll back and were detained by GRP personnel. SP (GRP) Manoj Kumar Jha said, “The train departed about half an hour late. A case will be lodged against the activists under appropriate sections.” Police detained Congress leader Kishore Varshney and Youth Congress leader Haseeb Ahmad near Subhash crossing and foiled their attempt to force shopkeepers to down their shutters. Varshney alleged that police detained them at reserve police lines the whole day and even took away their mobiles. Samajwadi Party district spokesman Daan Bahadur said, “Our party leaders and workers went to markets and appealed them to close shops but were detained by police.” Massive deployment of police forces was made out throughout the city and even senior police officials patrolled streets. Additional forces were deployed at Mundera mandi where farmers from across the district come to sell their crops. Traders associated with different vyapar mandals did not show interest in bandh. President of Mundera Vyapaar Mandal, Dhananjay Singh said “Traders of Rajrupur, Mundera, Sulemsarai, Bamrauli and other areas had decided to open their establishments on Tuesday. We already faced heavy losses due to corona and could not close our shops at a time when wedding season is at peak.” SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh told TOI, “All the markets of the city were open throughout the day and no untoward incident was reported. Over 400 activists of political groups were detained by police.” “We had already warned of stringent action if anyone tried to disturb the law and order in the city,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/no-bandh-impact-prayagrajmarkets-remain-open-all-day/articleshow/79632648.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Motorists struggle as civic body blocks DB Road sans warning||Coimbatore: Dug-up for the model road project, the city corporation has blocked the DB Road near the post office junction by placing barricades.It was only on Monday evening that the civic body dug up a portion of the road. In the absence of signboards at the road entrance, vehicles, including ambulances, end up travelling for about 1km till the barricaded area. While some take U-turn, others, especially motorists and cyclists, find a gap between the barricades and risk travelling through the dug-up road.S Raja, a commuter, said, “The city corporation should have placed a board at the entrance of the road or at least at the post office junction to help motorists take alternative route. Since the civic body has been carrying out the road work for more than a year and heavy vehicles and barricades are often spotted on the road, we can’t differentiate whether the entire road or a portion of it is blocked.” Until recently, he said, all the aerial roads were blocked. “We were allowed only to travel straight till the junction. Now, the aerial roads are open and the blockade starts from the post office junction.” Rajesh, a shopkeeper, said, the situation was far worse when it rained and the road became slippery. “During the peak hours, vehicle movement is heavy and they struggle to take U-turn. The corporation should speed up and complete the work at the earliest.”Meanwhile, road workers said placing the barricades at the road entrance wouldn’t have made any difference as motorists would pass through the gap.The city corporation has been carrying out the model road project on DB Road for the past two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/motorists-struggle-as-civic-body-blocks-db-road-sans-warning/articleshow/79632656.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Aurangabad||First-of-its-kind ‘Smart citizens’ drive launched in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASDCL) has decided to launch a ‘smart citizens’ drive in the city that will train citizens in basic civic responsibilities through lectures, audio visuals and street plays. In what is being touted as a first-of-its kind initiative in the country, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) will spearhead the public campaign with the help of Mahatma Gandhi Mission (MGM) Hospital, and Aurangabad First — an organization comprising industrialists and intellectuals from the city. Municipal administrator and ASCDCL CEO Astik Kumar Pandey said the implementation of the smart city project was not limited to infrastructural development. “Without citizens’ participation, various developmental projects will have little significance. This is why, we have decided to carry out a mega campaign to educate citizens and turn them into smart citizens.” Deputy dean of MGM Medical College Pravin Suryawanshi made a virtual presentation of the drive on Sunday evening. He said currently, the irresponsible behaviour of citizens like dumping of waste in public places, lack of parking discipline, traffic violence and water wastage affected human health, environment, led to unnecessary wastage of resources and increased cost of maintenance. Citizens will have to a take a multiple-choice based exam after the completion of their training. Those who pass the exam will be given a certificate and a badge. Those who do not pass will have to undergo the training again and then take an exam. The Aurangabad First will look after the registration of candidate. MGM the hospital will provide training, infrastructure and manpower for conducting the examinationsThe AMC will be the certifying agency and will be responsible for successful implementation of the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/first-of-its-kind-smart-citizens-drive-launched-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79633810.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||AIIMS says virus or pesticide may’ve landed over 500 in hospital in Andhra||AMARAVATI: Water contamination by a virus or pesticide might have triggered the “mystery” disease in Eluru town, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said on Tuesday even as a leading private lab in Vijayawada found high levels of pesticides, including DDT, in drinking water. A separate report by AIIMS, Mangalagiri showed high levels of lead and nickel in the blood samples collected from the patients. A team comprising experts from AIIMS, Delhi; National Institute of Virology, Pune; and Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, and National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad is zeroing in on the causative agent – pesticide or virus or a combo of both – that lead to hospitalisation of about 500 people in the last three days. It all began on December 6 when a group of people was hospitalised with symptoms that resembled those of epilepsy. More cases were reported from other parts of Eluru and nearby areas. Eluru is served by two irrigation canals that are interlinked. While one canal originates from Rajahmundry, another takes birth in Vijayawada. Pesticides and fertilisers used by farmers en route are dumped into these canals that serve as a drinking water source to thousands of villages including, Eluru city. The expert team will collect samples from the patients and send them to NIV Pune and other laboratories to find out the cause for the sudden seizures. Earlier, AIIMS (Mangalagiri) medical superintendent Dr Rakesh Kakkar visited Eluru on Sunday and studied the case sheets of the patients and analysed the reasons for the sudden illness including seizures, convulsions, vomiting, foaming and tremors. The AIIMS team found that majority of the cases were reported from the areas which have common sources of drinking water supply from Pumpula Cheruvu supplied by Eluru municipal corporation. “Most of the 20 patients interviewed said there was change in the colour and taste in water. Some reported that there was greenish/muddy discolouration of the household water supply,” said AIIMS in its preliminary report to the state government. “Water/food contamination with virus or heavy metals or organo-compounds could be the suspected cause of outbreak,” concluded AIIMS in its report. A private laboratory in Vijayawada found presence of pesticides in high quantities in drinking water. The water samples were collected and sent for analysis by Eluru Municipal Corporation. The report said that Dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD) was found at 14.21 and 15.23 per mg/l while the acceptable limit is just 0.0001. Similarly, Alachlor, an herbicide, was found at 10.88 and Methoxychlor, pesticide, was recorded at 17.64 against the acceptable level of 0.001. Another chemical DDT was found at 15.31 level and DDE was recorded as 14.16 per mg/l against the permissible level of 0.001 mg/l. Watch Eluru illness: Pesticide or virus may be behind 'mystery' disease in Andhra, says AIIMS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pesticide-or-virus-behind-eluru-illness/articleshow/79634272.cms||Samdani MN
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Cases filed as shopkeepers face attacks in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: On the occasion of Bharat Bandh, there were at least four incidents in various parts of the city where protesters attacked either the shopkeepers who opened their shops or people who questioned them. On Tuesday morning, when Serilingampally MLA Arekapudi held a protest along with TRS activists, he was questioned by a person for obstructing their movement by putting a barricade at Kukatpally. It led to a argument between the TRS activists and locals. The MLA, allegedly shoved an unknown man and later, one of his followers assaulted this unknown man. The incident was caught on camera and it went viral but no case was registered by Kukatpally police, who said that they did not get any complaint. In another incident, TRS protesters, upon seeing a beauty parlour in Ram Nagar kept open, barged into the palour and attacked the business organisers, besides abusing them. Police registered a criminal case on the charge of criminal trespass, damage to property against ex-corporator Hari Babu and others. In Bhongir zone, two cases were registered after protesters damaged property in an open store. In another case, a stone was pelted against a store owner. DCP (Bhongir Zone) Narayan Reddy said criminal cases were registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-filed-as-shopkeepers-face-attacks/articleshow/79632659.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR: Corporates will dictate the market with new farm bills||Hyderabad: In its first salvo against the BJP-led government at the Centre after GHMC elections, the TRS party cadre, right from the ministers in the government, MLAs, MLCs to important leaders participated in Bharat Bandh call given by the various farmers’ organizations on Tuesday. While some ministers staged a dharna and rasta rokos on the national highways, some leaders took out bike rallies and bullock carts in the various parts of the state. The party leaders ensured all the commercial establishments observed bandh till afternoon. Even TSRTC suspended its operations till afternoon. TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had criticized the three farm bills approved by the NDA government at the Centre and termed them draconian and detrimental to the interests of the farming community. TRS working president KT Rama Rao, who participated in the rasta roko and dharna programme on the national highway at Burgula toll gate near Shadnagar, said TRS was ready to fight for protecting the interests of farmers for a long term. “While the TRS government protected the interests of farmers by giving Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bheema, the Centre had cleared the agriculture bills forcibly in the parliament. With these new farm bills, corporates dictate the market and even try to create artificial scarcity,” the working president said while addressing a huge gathering at the dharna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-corporates-will-dictate-the-market-with-new-farm-bills/articleshow/79632695.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Aurangabad||Udgir cops ‘uncover’ fake certificate||AURANGABAD: The Udgir police in Latur district have found that a suspect used a bogus handicap certificate to get concession in the marks required for clearing National Entrance Test (NET) and used the NET certificate to get a permanent job as assistant professor in a private college. Police have sent a letter in this regard, a copy of which is with TOI, to the joint director of higher and technical education. When contacted, an officer at the Udgir police station declined to comment on the case, but confirmed that the letter has already reached the education official. As per the records, the probe was initiated on the complaint by one Manmath Shelke, who was shortlisted for the job in July 2016 from the open handicap category but the management of the private college cancelled the appointment process. Sources in the police department said they have sought consent of the authorities for registration of an offence against the suspect found to have used a fake certificate and that similar cases may be exposed. Shelke told TOI that he filed a petition in the high court after his written applications to the college fell on deaf ears. The matter is currently pending. Shelke said he filed a series of RTI applications to the Shri Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University, Nanded, and found that the assistant professor in question has attached a handicap certificate issued by a Latur-based doctor, who on October 1, 2018 denied issuing any such certificate. Shelke’s lawyer Ganesh Gadhe said, “The suspect assistant professor’s certificate states that it was issued in 2008 and appeared for the NET exams, got concession in the marks and got assistant lecturer’s job with the Udgir-based college in 2013.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/udgir-cops-uncover-fake-certificate/articleshow/79633821.cms||Mohammed Akhef
December 9, 2020||Allahabad||Devotees to follow Covid protocols at Magh Mela venues||Prayagraj: Even as chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Magh Mela authorities to make arrangements for the annual fair, many devotees have begun flocking to Sangam. Magh Mela is slated to commence from January 14 next year. A group of devotees from Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district, who came to Sangam on Monday, said that they come to attend the Magh Mela every year, and have made all the preparations for the grand annual fair. Ratna, a devotee said, “We could not break the tradition of visiting Magh Mela, and hence, this time, we will participate with all precautions in place.” Hailing CM Yogi for allowing authorities to organize the annual religious fair this year as well, Sant Kamar, a devotee from Sasaram, said, “We will follow all Covid protocols while attending the Magh Mela. We will also carry our Covid test reports with us while arriving at the Sangam city.” Many visitors at Sangam appreciated the Yogi for taking all preventive measures to check the spread of Covid-19 during Magh Mela. They said that carrying negative test reports would help the concerned authorities manage the situation smoothly. They also supported the move to carry out Covid test of kalpwasis every week as they would be spending the entire month on the banks of Ganga. Mahamandleshwar Tina Maa of Kinnar Akhara said, “We should follow all the necessary social distancing norms and cooperate with agencies check the spread of the pandemic.” Priest Ravi Shankar said, “We have been asking all devotees to follow the Covid protocol and wear masks while visiting Sangam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/devotees-to-follow-covid-protocols-at-magh-mela-venues/articleshow/79632698.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Grain mandis shut in Kota, Hadauti areas||Kota: The markets and business activities in Bhamasha Grain Mandi, claimed to be Asia’s largest, in divisional headquarters Kota and Bundi district headquarters remained closed on Tuesday in support of farmers protesting for the withdrawal of farm laws. Partial shutdown of markets was witnessed in Baran and Jhalawar districts of Hadouti region, however, the grain mandis were remained closed here.The Congress workers led by Kota city party president Ravinder Tyagi on Tuesday took out a rally from party’s office in the city into main markets and appealed the business and trade organizations and shopkeepers to support the farmers protesting nationwide by shutting down their establishments till 3pm. The mayors of Kota South municipal corporation Rajiv Agrawal and Kota North Manju Mehra also joined the party workers in the rally to appeal for the closing of markets, however, a group of party workers, including PCC members and officer bearers stayed distanced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/grain-mandis-shut-in-kota-hadauti-areas/articleshow/79632697.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Agra||Financial crunch, health issues force mother to sell 45-day-old boy in Agra||AGRA: Hit hard by financial and health issues, a 30-year-old woman allegedly tried to sell her 45-day-old son who was admitted to SN Medical College (SNMC) here for treatment of diarrhoea. The woman, a resident of Gopalpura, said that her husband turned a drunkard after losing his job as a worker in a shoe factory due to the Covid-induced lockdown and she, too, suffered from frequent episodes of fits due to which she was unable to take proper care of her newborn. On Tuesday, she approached a few bystanders at SNMC emergency ward and tried to sell the baby. A young couple from upscale Kamala Nagar locality, who had come to SNMC to visit an ailing relative, agreed to buy the malnourished baby for Rs 10,000 and even bought new clothes for him. The woman claimed that she tried to sell the baby as she wanted to take good care of at least her firstborn, a three-year-old son. Meanwhile, child rights activist Naresh Paras lodged a complaint about the attempt after which police rushed to the spot and detained the woman. Station house officer of MM Gate Awadhesh Awasthi said, “We have deployed a constable to keep a watch on the woman. We are trying to contact her family. We couldn’t trace her husband and even the relatives of the woman are not financially sound. The neighbours said that both the husband and wife are mentally unsound.” “We have not registered a case as the sale did not happen and there was no financial transaction involved. However, we warned both the parties that the act could invite legal action,” he added. Taking cognizance of the matter, SNMC principal Dr Sanjay Kala said, “Both the child and his mother have been admitted to the hospital. The woman is mentally unstable. She quietly left the hospital with her baby who was under treatment. We are now providing them all assistance apart from asking police whether they can find any relative who can be a bystander to the mother-son duo.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mom-tries-to-sell-newborn-due-to-financial-health-issues/articleshow/79630231.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 9, 2020||Business||Tatas value SP’s 18% stake at Rs 80,000 crore||MUMBAI: Tata Sons opened up a new battlefront with Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) on Tuesday as it valued the minority shareholder’s 18.4% stake in the company up to 61% lower than the latter’s estimate. SP had valued its stake at Rs 1.78 lakh crore, while Tata Sons — in a submission before the Supreme Court on Tuesday — pegged the same at Rs 70,000-80,000 crore. SP is seeking an exit from the holding company of India’s biggest conglomerate after a seven-decade-old relationship turned sour in the last four years. Based on Tuesday’s submission, Tata Sons is worth Rs 3.8-4.3 lakh crore and its valuation of SP’s stake is 55-61% lower than the latter’s own calculations. It is not clear whether Tata Sons has considered SP’s proportionate share in the Tata brand value, which was Rs 1.46 lakh crore, according to Brand Finance’s 2020 ranking. SP, as part of its separation proposal, had suggested swapping its Tata Sons stake for shares worth Rs 1.78 lakh crore in listed Tata companies. The valuation gap means the beginning of another clash between the two revered Parsi groups, which have been locked in a legal battle since 2016, when SP scion Cyrus Mistry was removed from the chairman’s post of Tata Sons in a boardroom coup. Earlier this year, SP sought to pledge its Tata Sons stake to raise money amid the Covid pandemic, but the attempt was blocked by the holding company by moving the apex court. Tata Sons told the SC that it was open to buying SP’s share if the latter needed funds. In September, SP announced its decision to exit from Tata Sons as it realised it was stuck with an investment which could not be easily monetised due to restrictive share transfer clauses. A prolonged battle will, however, not do any good for SP as it is hard-pressed for funds for its construction and real estate businesses. The latest valuation of Tata Sons, based on its estimate of SP’s stake, is not far from the holding company’s 2016 worth of Rs 3.14 lakh crore as calculated by noted chartered accountant Y H Malegam. Tata Sons officials have been citing applicability of illiquidity discounts to the valuation of the holding company. On Tuesday, Tata Sons also argued before the Supreme Court that though the law empowers a judicial body to appoint and remove a director from the board of a company, its power under section 242 is “nuanced and for specific purpose”. It is the controlling shareholder who has the right to make appointments on the board of the company. The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) had removed N Chandrasekaran from the chairman’s post at Tata Sons who was appointed after Mistry’s exit. The NCLAT had reinstated Mistry as the holding company’s chairman. Tata Sons argued that under “normal corporate democracy”, a shareholder with an 18.4% stake would not be able to get a single seat on the board of the company, while a controlling shareholder (Tata Trusts, which holds 68% in Tata Sons) would be able to fill the board with its nominees. Tata Sons further said that Mistry was not appointed chairman under any right of the minority shareholder. But by reinstating him, the NCLAT went against the majority’s wish, giving the minority the reins of the company, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-value-sps-18-stake-at-rs-80000-crore/articleshow/79634822.cms||Reeba Zachariah
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Man stabs minor girl for refusing his love in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A 27-year-old man stabbed a minor girl after she refused to reciprocate to his love at Rathinapuri in the city on Monday. The stalker, who consumed poison, is battling for life. Vivek, 27, a native of Dharmapuri district, was working with a private DTH company in the city and residing in a rental house at Rathinapuri. He often visited his neighbour’s house, where he befriended a 15-year-old girl a few months ago. Meanwhile, the girl’s family shifted to another area and Vivek visited them there also. A few weeks ago, he proposed the minor girl, who rejected and started avoiding him. On Monday, the girl was alone at her residence when Vivek entered the house and demanded her to accept his proposal. When she refused, he took a knife from his packet and stabbed her and managed to escape. The girl suffered minor cut injuries and sought help from neighbours who took her to a nearby hospital. Following the incident, Vivek attempted to commit suicide by consuming poison at his residence at Rathinapuri. Immediately, he was taken to a private hospital by the neighbours and later, his parents took him to Salem for advanced treatment. Based on the complaint filed by the mother of the minor girl, the Rathinapuri police registered an FIR under sections 294(b), 452, 324 and 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act. Police said Vivek is battling for life at a private hospital in Salem. Action will be taken against Vivek after he recovers, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-stabs-minor-girl-for-refusing-his-love/articleshow/79632732.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jaipur||Roadways buses, trucks & cabs remain off road in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Be it Rajasthan State Roadways Transport Corporation (RSRTC) buses or trucks, private cabs or city buses, everyone observed “chakka jam” to support the Bharat Bandh called by the ruling Congress government in the state. At least 7 lakh trucks and more than 2,800 RSRTC buses did not operate in support of the bandh. More than 1,300 transport companies did not operate their trucks. Since morning the trucks applied brakes and were on standstill mode wherever they were in the state. “We have given full support to the farmers by participating in the Bharat bandh. Our 7 lakh trucks and 1,300 transport companies did not operate. We urge the government of India to strike down the laws which are against the rights and interests of the farmers,” said Gopal Singh Rathore, state convener of All India Motor Transport. He said for the interests of the transporters, the Centre should also slash various taxes on petrol and diesel. “I have been waiting here for almost two years. Neither they are saying buses won’t operate nor they are saying they will operate,” said Shambhu Lal who was trying to get a bus to Ajmer from Central bus stand in Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/roadways-buses-trucks-cabs-remain-off-road/articleshow/79632713.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||IT staff take part in pro-farmer protest||Hyderabad: Hundreds of IT employees on Tuesday took part in a demonstration organized by the Forum of IT professionals (ForIT) at Raidurg metro station in support of farmers, Hitech City. Techies said they stand in solidarity with the farmers’ protests that are happening around India in response to the ‘anti-farmer’ laws that are being put forward by the government. “We feel that the demands of farmers are reasonable. It is our responsibility to stand by the farmers. The farm laws are hollow and would not benefit farmers in any way,” said Kiran Chandra, president of the forum. He added that he might be an IT employee today, but will always be a farmer’s son. “Although the new laws give a provision for farmers to sell their produce in any state at any time, they will not have the infrastructure to transport and sell their crop in some other state,” he said. “The corporates will be making that call and this will adversely affect our entire agriculture sector. Only big corporates will be benefiting from these new laws,” Chandra added. Raising slogans such as ‘memu saitam, raitu kosam’, ‘people united shall always be victorious’, the IT employees took out a rally from Raidurg metro station to TCS Deccan Park. The techies also blocked roads at Lemon Tree Junction for a few minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/it-staff-take-part-in-pro-farmer-protest/articleshow/79632722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Allahabad||3 killed in separate road accidents||Prayagraj: A man was killed and two others sustained injuries when their autorickshaw turned turtle near Noorpur, Hazipur village under Pipri police station of Kaushambi district on late Monday night. The deceased, identified as Suraj Pal, was a resident of Boonda village. Station officer (Pipri) Vijay Rai told TOI that half-a-dozen people were returning in an autorikshaw from a wedding in Ghosi village. Near Noorpur village, the autorikshaw overturned in an attempt to avoid a collision with another vehicle, killing one person and leaving two others injured. The body of the deceased has been sent for post mortem. In another case reported from Pratapgarh district, a 53-year-old man was killed after his bike collided with another speeding bike near Dham road under Baghrai police station on late Monday night. In yet another incident, a 48-year-old woman identified as Chanda was knocked down by a speeding SUV near Jhigur area under Maheshganj police station of Pratapgarh on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/79632739.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Agra||20 fresh Covid +ve cases reported in Agra||Agra: At least 20 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 9684. These included two staffers of Agramunicipal corporation. Besides, four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, two patients of coronary artery infection and one kidney patient. Meanwhile, 94 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 9684 cases reported in the district, 93.09% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases decreased from 563 on Monday to 501 on Tuesday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.58 percent. So far, 9015 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital. People who had come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city. The number of Covid-19 cases are likely to increase with drop in temperature during winters. People are advised to wear face masks as much as possible and strictly practice social distancing”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/20-fresh-covid-ve-cases-reported-in-agra/articleshow/79630246.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Agri laws not conducive for marginal ryots, says Harish Rao||Hyderabad: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Tuesday said the new farm laws will not be feasible in any manner to Telangana, which has more than 80% marginal farmers. He wondered, “Is it possible for marginal farmers to sell their produce in states like Delhi and Punjab. What if the agri produce is dumped from these states.” He took part in an agitation in Toopran in Medak district as part of the Bharat Bandh. He said though the BJP government at the Centre says that the agri laws are a big boon to farmers, they harm the interests of the farmers. He said the farm laws were passed in a haste without holding a proper discussion in Parliament. He said even Canadian PM Justin Trudeau had responded on the farmers’ protests in India, but not PM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/agri-laws-not-conducive-for-marginal-ryots-says-harish-rao/articleshow/79632771.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Bharat bandh: Small protests across Goa, but life goes on as usual||PANAJI/MARGAO: The all-India bandh call issued in support of protesting farmers didn’t have much of an impact in Goa, as life went on as usual on Tuesday. Markets and commercial establishments were open, and government and private offices functioned normally. Public transport, too, plied as usual. A protest dharna was held at Azad Maidan, Panaji, and a rally taken out in Margao, in support of the farmers’ demands. Farmers and other protestors rallying under the banner of ‘Goyant Kollso Naka’ at the protest rally in Margao denounced the farm laws enacted by the Centre. The protestors went round the municipal garden shouting slogans against the government. John Fernandes, a progressive farmer, addressing the protestors, said that the farm laws enacted by the government were not in the interest of farmers and the common man. He demanded that the government repeal the laws and bring in new laws that are beneficial to farmers in consultation with all stakeholders. Activists, politicians and the general public participated in the dharna held at Azad Maidan, extending their solidarity towards the farmers’ movement in Delhi. Organised by the All India Kisan Sabha, AITUC, and CITU as part of the nationwide Bharat bandh, the dharna also received support from the several organisations including Goa private bus owners’ association. “The Punjab farmers have given us a way forward on how to treat a government that doesn’t treat its citizens with respect,” said Goa Foundation’s Claude Alvares. “This is the lesson that all agitators in Goa will learn today... People in Goa also have the same amount of turmoil, and we have a government that doesn’t listen to us and serves us one lie after another,” he added. Congress state president Girish Chodankar slammed the “well thought out agenda of the government to crush farmers and farm labourers”. “This move will ensure that the country’s poor farmers remain vulnerable while Narendra Modi’s fan club is given good deals,” he said. Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai said that farmers have awakened the collective conscience of the nation. “There is a special significance to Bharat bandh as this is a government that refuses to listen to the people,” he said. “Let us take inspiration from our youth and farmers and unite to raise our voice to save Goa now.” Meanwhile, general secretary of the bus owners association, Sudip Tamankar, condemned the intimidation of farmers at the hands of the government. “The agriculture bill is a move to destroy mandis, export price and support price,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bharat-bandh-small-protests-across-the-state-but-life-goes-on-as-usual/articleshow/79632819.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man kills wife in drunken brawl||COIMBATORE: The rural police arrested a 52-year-old man on charges of murdering his wife during a drunken brawl at Sridevi Nagar, Pappampatti, on the outskirts of the city on Tuesday morning. Police said the accused was unaware of the fact that his wife had died and was sleeping near the dead body. Only in the morning, their daughter found her mother dead when she was visiting them. Police identified the deceased as A Padmavathi, 45. M Arumugam, 52, and Padmavathi were ragpickers. Their three daughters and a son were married. The couple used to drink liquor together. On Monday night, after drinking alcohol, the couple got into an argument, a police officer said. Suddenly, Arumugam hit his wife on her head with a liquor bottle. Padmavathi suffered critical injuries and was bleeding profusely. Unaware of the consequence of his deed, Arumugam fell asleep. On Tuesday morning, one of their daughters visited the house and found her mother dead. She also found her drunken father in the house. Immediately, she alerted the neighbours, who informed the Sulur police. A police team reached to the spot and arrested the accused. They sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. The body was later handed over to the family members. Arumugam was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-kills-wife-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/79632751.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Shifting allegiances within an alliance||Political switchovers are not uncommon ahead of an , but when it happens within an alliance, there’s bound to be a sense of unease. This could get uncomfortable for the AIADMK as the stated objective of the BJP is to strategically chip away at the ruling party’s support base. M Govindan, former joint secretary of the AIADMK’s advocates wing, joined the BJP in Madurai during state president L Murugan’s visit to the temple city last month, taking along with him many colleagues. "The AIADMK leadership’s cowardliness is what made us keen to switch over to a stronger party," said Govindan. This could just be the beginning of the political churn with the Rajini factor being added to the mix last week. Once Rajinikanth’s party is launched in January, there could be a few political exits from the two main Dravidian parties, as some are looking forward to a change and the idea of ‘spiritual politics’ with the superstar at the helm. Govindan was made joint secretary of the AIADMK advocates’ wing in 2007 by former party president J Jayalalithaa, who Govindan said was an epitome of courage. "No one could beat her and it was her presence that made the party vibrant, but today it is riddled with corruption, and cadres like me have no other option but to move out," he said. It is a double whammy for the AIADMK. It is not only a reflection on the new leadership, it also confirms apprehensions within the AIADMK about the BJP’s "larger agenda" to ride piggyback on its ally to erode its voter base and eventually breach the Dravidian bulwark. The exit of C Selvaraj, 64, an advocate who had been in the AIADMK since 1972, and held various posts, including that of public prosecutor for 15 years, did not come as a big surprise. "My senior K Viswanathan was an RSS member, and I have always been closely associated with him. But I never went to the BJP because of Amma (Jayalalithaa). No leader in the country can surpass her," said Selvaraj. "The same cannot be said of her followers, who are just cowards, and would do anything to protect themselves," he said. "How will such partymen protect the people of the state? On the other hand, I see Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah as unrelenting leaders who stand by their statements and actions, and are strong leaders, like Amma. So, they are my choice now,’’ said Selvaraj. Some women members too have shifted allegiance to the BJP from the AIADMK, like Chitra Pandi from the women’s wing as they see "a strong leadership in Modi and Shah". When pointed out that he would be working for the AIADMK indirectly in the ensuing elections, if the AIADMK-BJP alliance continued for the 2021 assembly election, Govindan said, "Now, we hope the BJP would win enough seats to take control of the AIADMK." He added there are thousands of AIADMK cadres waiting to join the BJP. "In terms of rate of growth, we are the number one party in Tamil Nadu," said BJP state general secretary professor R Srinivasan. "We are not trying to lure anyone. We (the AIADMK and the BJP) have an overlapping vote bank. On major issues, we have convergent viewpoints," he said. Recently, AIADMK functionary and ex-Vellore mayor P Karthiyayini joined the BJP along with former Arcot MLA Srinivasan. Srinivasan, however, returned to the AIADMK, expressing displeasure over the approach of the BJP leaders and "their lack of understanding of state politics". BJP national women wing president Vanathi Srinivasan told TOI that functionaries and leaders of other regional parties, including the AIADMK, "look at the BJP for opportunities and to realise their political aspirations". On AIADMK cadres joining the BJP, revenue minister and senior AIADMK leader T R B Udayakumar said, "All cadres enjoy some comfort level within a party and with some leaders in particular. But, when relations sour, they prefer to leave the party." When asked about Murugan’s statement that many were ready to join the BJP, Udayakumar said, "The BJP is a national party, which is in power at the Centre. It is proving its might by destroying the Congress in many states. So, there are many, who are drawn to the BJP’s agenda and actions." While the AIADMK has been silent about these crossovers, the party leadership has tried to be firm in not encouraging the BJP’s Hindutva programmes in Tamil Nadu. "We don’t want them to use us to promote their ideology and erode our support base," said a senior minister when a controversy raged in the wake of a fringe group Karuppar Kootham denigrating the "kanda sashti kavasam", a hymn in praise of deity Muruga. "After all, the DMK is viewed as a rationalist party and the AIADMK is seen as a party with a substantial Hindu vote bank," the minister said. (With inputs from J Shanmughasundaram)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/shifting-allegiances-within-an-alliance/articleshow/79634484.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Bharat Bandh: Normal life unaffected||COIMBATORE: To show their solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi against the three contentious farm laws, around 30% of shops downed their shutters in the city on Tuesday. However, Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and private buses were plying as usual and normal life was not affected due to one-day Bharat bandh called by farmers. Uzhavar Sandhai at Cowley Brown Road, fish market at Ukkadam, vegetable markets and flower market in the city were functioning as usual. Mobile phone shops remained closed at Cross Cut Road, 100 Feet Road in the city in support of the bandh. CPI and CPM staged a protest at Annur bus stand on Tuesday morning. The protest was led by Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan. More than 260 cadres participated in the protest and they raised slogans against the Union government for implementing anti-farmer laws. They also demanded the Union government to repeal the laws. The rural police arrested the protesters and kept them in a marriage hall. Later, they were let off. Around 200 cadres of CPI and CPM staged a protest at BR Puram near Peelamedu and raised slogans against the Union government. More than 70 cadres from the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) attempted to besiege the Coimbatore railway junction. The city police placed barricades in front of the railway stations to prevent the protesters entry and around 100 police personnel were deployed at the spot. The protesters came in a rally to the Coimbatore railway junction from Lanka Corner and raised slogans against the central government. They attempted to enter inside the railway station. Later, the protesters sat on the State Bank Road and raised slogans. However, police arrested 73 protesters. Later, they were let off. Members from the SRMU (Southern railways mazdoor union) staged a protest demanding the withdrawal of three farmers law and anti-labour law. They also condemned the Union government move to privatize the railways. The protesters condemned the railway authorities for failing to fill the seven lakh vacancies in the department across the country. MDMK cadres staged a protest in front of their party office on VKK Menon Road. Various organizations participated in the protest on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bharat-bandh-normal-life-unaffected/articleshow/79632799.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Card skimmer and camera found attached to ATM unit||PUNE: The Pune cybercrime police found a card skimmer and a pinhole camera attached to the cash dispenser of a private bank’s unmanned ATM kiosk at Handewadi in Hadapsar on December 5 night. This was the third such incident reported in a month, police said. Fraudsters use the skimmer and pinhole camera to steal ATM card data and PINs that are subsequently used for cloning cards and making unauthorized cash withdrawals, police said. An officer with the cyber police told TOI, “In the recent case, CCTV camera footage of the kiosk showed a foreign national installing the skimmer and the camera at the ATM unit. The entire installation process has been recorded by the CCTV cameras.” He said, “We found the card skimmer attached to the cash dispenser’s card reader slot and the pinhole camera was installed over the keypad, to record the card user’s finger movement and ascertain the PIN.” The tampering came to the bank’s notice before anyone could make a transaction at the ATM. Ramchandra Jadhav (35), an officer from the private bank, lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police on Monday. On November 24, a similar incident was reported from an ATM kiosk in Pune Camp. However, the alert bank officials spotted the external attachment to the unit and pulled down the shutter doors of the ATM kiosks. On November 4, a skimmer and pinhole camera was found installed at an ATM unit on Sinhagad Road.  However, a card user spotted the extended card reader and became suspicious and informed the bank officials. The incident was then reported to the Sinhagad Road as well as the cybercrime police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/card-skimmer-and-camera-found-attached-to-atm-unit/articleshow/79631248.cms||Gitesh Shelke
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||CM doesn’t care about local farmers: BJP Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind||HYDERABAD: BJP Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind on Tuesday said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao does not care about the interests of local turmeric and maize farmers but is shedding crocodile tears for Punjab farmers. “I have asked the CM to write a letter to the Centre on turmeric farmers’ woes here. He never bothered but is worried about Punjab farmers,” he said at a press conference here. He said Union home minister Amit Shah stopped the import of turmeric and helped export of Telangana’s turmeric produce after they brought the issue to his notice. Arvind said the new farm laws would ensure bigger profits for farmers and added that farmers in Punjab have been misled. “In the past, they had demanded removal of middlemen and when the Centre took a decision in this regard, they are protesting on the streets,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-doesnt-care-about-local-farmers-arvind/articleshow/79632830.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Hopes rise for new anti-viral drug to treat Covid patients||RAJKOT: Anti-viral agents like remdesivir have proved effective in Covid-19 treatment as they limit the multiplication of the virus inside the body, thus stopping the infection from spreading further. Now, scientists at the reputed Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSMCRI), have found another compound from the existing drugs, whose anti-viral action could potentially be more effective medicine in the category of RdRp inhibitors, the drug which prevent multiplication of virus. Scientists are optimistic that the discovery, which has been made after months of research, is significant as the World Health Organization (WHO) had issued an advisory against the use of remdesivir for Covid-19 treatment last month. The new compound was found the analysis of 100 that were structurally similar to remdesivir. The findings have been published in the reputed US publication “The Journal of Physical Chemistry B” of the American Chemical Society. The research was carried out by scientists Dr Bishwajit Ganguly, Dr Shibaji Ghosh and Padmaja Wakchaure. Talking to TOI Dr Ghosh said, “When you design a drug, it’s very necessary to see that it will interact with the human body. We have prepared drug molecules which can be proved more effective than remdesivir.” However, the new compound needs in vitro ( a laboratory study) and clinical trials on animals and humans to establish its efficacy in Covid treatment added team leader Dr Ganguly. The new drug was derived from repurposing drugs, which are essentially those used in the trial of any other similar genre virus like SARC 1 or Ebola in which it remained successful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hopes-rise-for-new-anti-viral-drug-for-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/79630259.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
December 9, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold ornaments, silver items, cash stolen from house||Coimbatore: Unidentified burglars looted 25 sovereigns of gold ornaments, some silver items and Rs 42,000 from a house at Lakshmi Nagar in Chinnavedampatti. The incident came to the light on early Tuesday morning when the family members returned home from Trichy. Police said D Saravanan, 41, who sells computer, and his family members locked the house and went to Trichy on November 21. When the family returned on Tuesday around 3am, they found the front door lock was broken open. Inside the house, gold ornaments, silver articles and cash were missing. Saravanan immediately informed the Saravanampatti police. Police questioned the family members and neighbours. Fingerprints were extracted from the scene. Police have registered a case and formed a special team to nab the burglars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-ornaments-silver-items-cash-stolen-from-house/articleshow/79632787.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Tourist from Noida falls into Alaknanda river while taking selfie, feared dead||DEHRADUN: A 26-year-old man from Noida fell into Alaknanda River near Karnaprayag in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district while trying to take a selfie on Monday afternoon. The man, identified as Swatantra Priya, was still missing while this report was filed on Tuesday evening even as the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) was conducting a search operation. According to an SDRF official, the victim, along with three friends, had stopped at Karnaprayag for clicking photographs. While taking pictures, Swantantra lost his balance and fell into the river and was swept away by the swift currents of the river, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tourist-from-noida-falls-into-alaknanda-river-while-taking-selfie-feared-dead/articleshow/79630276.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Airlines told to give timely information on flight delays||PUNE: The Lohegaon airport authorities have instructed airlines to give their passengers information in advance about significant flight delays due to fog in the north to avoid crowding inside the terminal. The airport is currently functional for 12 hours daily, with 66-68 flight operations. On Monday, multiple flights were hit by delays due to fog in New Delhi, with stranded flyers raising concerns about social distancing in the packed terminal. “The airlines have their own standard operating procedure. At the airport, we have taken a number of steps to ensure proper social distancing is maintained by flyers,” Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh told TOI. An airline source all incoming and outgoing flights were flying at full capacity. “In fact, at times, passengers have to be offloaded as the flights are always overbooked,” the source said. The source added that the security check area and conveyor belts are the worst-hit. “If three to four flights are delayed at once, crowding cannot be avoided,” the source further said. A representative of another airline said they expect delays due to fog for at least a fortnight, and that they were prepared for it. “With fewer flights, I think things are being handled well,” he said.  Experts said one option was to deploy extra manpower. “With no night operations, the surplus staff should used for extra service/help desks. In fact, AAI should take such weather conditions into account while finalizing the winter flight schedule every year, as well as prepare a contingency plan in case things go awry,” aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/airlines-told-to-give-timely-information-on-flight-delays/articleshow/79631296.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Local farmers stay away from stir but hope for change||Nagpur: Farmers of the region largely remained spectators to the Bharat Bandh called to protest three new agriculture laws, even as they hoped the protests may bring about a change. Market yards under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC), however, were reportedly closed throughout Vidarbha, including Kalamna in Nagpur. The traders had shut their shops and farmers did not reach the yards with produce. The outfits organizing the bandh claimed no arrivals at the markets showed farmers were supporting them. Other than that, the Bandh had little impact on life in city as all services functioned normally. Workers from political parties and other groups were seen moving around the tehsil places asking traders to shut down their shops. There were some protests marches and leaders posing for photographs in smaller towns. In villages, the farmers whose cause was being raised remained indifferent. TOI talked to farmers across the region. A majority of them said they had preferred to carry on with their work than join the protests. They said farmers were too bogged down by the losses this year to protest anything. The current kharif season is said to be one of the worst. There have been losses in cotton and soyabean, the two main crops of Vidarbha. The paddy belt of Bhandara district too has suffered losses due to floods. Farmers with irrigation facilities are busy preparing for sowing wheat and chana (gram) which his harvested in March. “None from our area took part in the agitation. Most were busy preparing for the rabi season. Wheat and gram are sowed after plucking the cotton plants,” said Vijay Ingle, a farmer from Akot. They hope to recover the losses in cotton and soyabean in rabi season, he said. “Shops in the tehsil were shut, but in our village the common farmer was not concerned. The leaders from the villages may have gone but most of us were here working in the fields,” said Vinod Kankirad, a farmer from Darwha tehsil of Yavatmal, the district infamous for farmers’ suicides. Vijay Pawar from Bhoyni village in Washim complained of heavy losses in soyabean and said there was a little enthusiasm about the strike in the interiors. Sanjay Nimbarte from Bhandara too had similar feeling and a source in Gadchiroli added the interiors were largely unaffected. Farmers in Buldhana district, however, said the impact of the stir was seen in villages. “Farmers were enthusiastic,” said Samadhan Supekar from Isoli village in Chikli Taluka. Vithal Kate from Amlapur village nearby also confirmed total closure in the village. “The entire Shegaon tehsil is closed,” added Gopal Dhage, a farmer. Workers of Congress, Shiv Sena, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), left parties and others were seen moving around in the towns. Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vastantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government think-tank on agrarian crisis said the bandh was total. “A number of volunteers were seen asking the shopkeepers to close shutters. This indicates widespread discontent against the government,” he said. “There were nil or negligible arrivals at the APMC market. The farmers did not bring any produce as a mark of protest,” said Sudhir Kothari, a director in an APMC at Hinganghat in Wardha district. Yashwant Zade of Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M), said there were reports from 28 villages of Wardha that farmers had blocked roads. There was no involvement of any political party, he said. In the city, police registered about a dozen offences under the Epidemic Act as there was no permission for holding the rallies. However, the day passed off peacefully, said senior officials. Lawyers too extended their support to the agitation and held demonstration at Samvidhan Square.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/local-farmers-stay-away-from-stir-but-hope-for-change/articleshow/79631309.cms||Shishir Arya
December 9, 2020||Dehradun||Embroidering their way out of manual scavenging: 40 Doon-based women undergoing free training||The women will be given an amount of Rs 46,000 and be assited to start their own ventures once they complete the embroideryDehradun: “I worked as a manual scavenger for 12 years but my job never let me feel proud of myself. Also, I never felt a part of the mainstream society. However, my life has changed for good since I put down the broom for a hand embroidery kit,” says 40-year-old Sheetal, who is undertaking a free-of-cost training in embroidery with 39 other women like her under a project funded by National Safai Karamchari Finance and Development Corporation, a Government of India undertaking. The training, two-and-a-half months long, is being given to women living in Dehradun’s Khudbuda Mohalla, which houses a significant number of families who have been associated with manual scavenging to earn their living. Talking to TOI, Krishna Kumar, CEO, Handicrafts and Carpet Sector Skill Council, said “Our organisation, since its inception, has been empowering the underprivileged communities through its skill development training programmes. This initiative is aimed at rehabilitation of the manual scavenger community in Dehradun through skills training in hand embroidery.” Rajesh Rana, managing director at Resonance International Inc. (vocational college in Dehradun which is the trainer partner of the initiative), said, “Once these women complete their training, an amount of Rs 46,000 will be given to them along with the facility of subsidised loans for starting their own venture. In addition, artisan identity cards will also be issued to all the women giving them access to exhibit their work at any folk art fair.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/embroidering-their-way-out-of-manual-scavenging-40-doon-based-women-undergoing-free-training/articleshow/79630291.cms||Abhijeet Singh
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-boyfriend stabs woman for saying ‘no’||Nagpur: A romantic liaison between a 28-year-old woman and an 18-year-old guy took an ugly, violent turn at Rajendra Nagar Chowk on Tuesday, when the ex-boyfriend stabbed her repeatedly for discontinuing the relationship.A friendship, which had kicked off from a ‘wrong number’ episode, had blossomed over social media before it became an emotional bonding for the last two-and-half years.Monali Taywade, who works at a hospital, sustained serious stab injuries on her body (including the head) after Prashant Barsagade chased her down and repeatedly assaulted her with a sharp weapon. As Taywade collapsed on the ground, a group of onlookers pounced upon Barsagade to overpower him. Barsagade was also thrashed by the onlookers before being handed over to the Nandanvan police. Taywade was the younger of the two sisters. Her elder sister is married, and her economically weak family was preparing for her marriage too. Police said Taywade’s mother Pramila has stated that the family was unaware of her friendship with Barsagade. It’s learnt that Barsagade, a native of Gondia, arrived in the city earlier in the day, seated in the rear portion of a truck. After getting down from the truck near HB Town in Pardi, Barsagade walked up to the hospital where Taywade worked.Sources from police said Taywade was attending a blood donation camp organized by the hospital where she worked. Barsagade was waiting for Taywade near her hospital. After she returned, Barsagade chased her. A panicked Taywade ran for safety before sneaking into another hospital in the vicinity. Barsagade followed her inside the other hospital and started stabbing her. It’s learnt that Taywade was stabbed in such a heinous manner that a portion of her skull got seriously damaged. She is still critical. One of Taywade’s friends, who was an eyewitness to the incident, alerted the victim’s mother who had gone to work at an anganwadi. The family rushed to the spot. In the meanwhile, Taywade was rushed to a private hospital at Jagnade Chowk but the hospital refused admission. She was then taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Nandanvan police have registered an offence of attempt to murder against Barsagade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-boyfriend-stabs-woman-for-saying-no/articleshow/79632814.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 9, 2020||Kanpur||Nehru statue found defaced||Jhansi: The face of statue of former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, located at the Elite crossing, near Nawabganj police station, was found defaced on Tuesday. The matter came to light when Congress Party workers noticed the damaged statue while protesting against the farm bills. According to reports, Congress party workers, led by former Union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya and secretary UPCC Rahul Richariya, during a protest march against the farm bills, on Tuesday noticed the disfigured statue. The angry party workers demanded immediate restoration of the statue and strict action against the culprits Police later reached the place and forcibly removed the party workers who were reluctant to leave the place. They were taken to the police lines for violating section 144 and were later released. Talking to TOI, Richariya said, "Defacing the statue of the former PM is an act of hatred which is not acceptable”. CO (City) Rajesh Kumar Singh said an FIR has been lodged against unidentified persons under section 427 IPC and section 3 of Prevention of Loss of Public Property Act. "We are investigating the matter and will take strict action against the offenders. The statue will be restored to its original shape by tomorrow".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/nehru-statue-found-defaced/articleshow/79632954.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Hyderabad||Pass resolution in assembly against farm laws: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress on Tuesday demanded the central government immediately withdraw the three contentious farm laws and protect the interests of farmers. It also demanded that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao convene a special session of the assembly to pass resolutions against the three anti-farmers laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said the TRS government should pass new laws in the legislature under Article 254 (2) of the Constitution overriding the central laws. Stating that Congress would continue to fight against the BJP government until the anti-farmer laws were withdrawn, Uttam said the new farm laws would benefit the corporates and not farmers. “The reluctance by the BJP government in not giving constitutional protection to the minimum support price (MSP) indicates its preference for corporates. These laws would boost hoarding and food price inflation due to abolition of the marketyard system,” he alleged. Uttam ridiculed TRS for its support to Bharat Bandh. “Farmers were handcuffed and beaten up on various occasions in Telangana. The agricultural land parcels of thousands of farmers have been taken away by TRS government for pharma city and other projects. The Rs 1 lakh crop loan waiver promise is yet to be implemented. On the diktat of the government, farmers cultivated a fine variety of paddy and suffered Rs 10,000 per acre loss. TRS government did not purchase the fine variety paddy at Rs 2,500 per quintal,” he alleged. The farmers did not get crop insurance due to the negligence of the TRS government, which did not even enumerate the damages caused to crops due to heavy rains and floods. The losses were up to Rs 5,000 crore, he alleged. Meanwhile, Congress leaders N Uttam Kumar Reddy, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, A Revanth Reddy, Ponnam Prabhakar, Bhatti Vikramarka, V Hanumanth Rao, T Ram Mohan Reddy, Jeevan Reddy, Madhu Yashki, T Jayaprakash Reddy, Dasoju Sravan, Anil Kumar Yadav staged rasta rokos and dharnas on various national highways in support of farmers’ Bharat Bandh and demanded withdrawal of the three anti-farmer laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pass-resolution-in-assembly-against-farm-laws-cong/articleshow/79632859.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Burglars exit bungalow sans booty||Pune: A gang of three to four intruders, who broke into a bungalow at a society on the Lohegaon-Wagholi road during the wee hours of Monday, had to return empty-handed after finding barely anything worth stealing from the premises. Senior inspector Gajanan Pawar of the Airport police said, “The ground-plus-one structure bungalow belongs to a bank officer who shifted with all his belongings to Vadodara in Gujarat three months ago following his transfer. The owner has rented out the upper floor premises to a tenant, Vinay Dineshchandra Dubey (31), who was away from home on Sunday night. Dubey noticed the broken ground floor door when he returned home on Monday morning. He has since lodged an FIR with us.” “The bungalow owner told us that he will be visiting Pune in next two days after we informed him about the house break-in,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-exit-bungalow-sans-booty/articleshow/79631301.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Extension for property tax amnesty plan||Pune: The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) approved the proposal to extend the property tax amnesty scheme till January 26 on Tuesday. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Taking the tax collections in the first phase into consideration, it has been decided to extend the amnesty scheme in two phases but with lesser concession. In the first phase of the extension, the waiver has been brought down to 75% for the period December 10 to 31. In the next phase, which will be implemented from January 1 to 26, 70% waiver has been announced for those paying arrears.” Rasne said that over 3 lakh defaulters are still to pay tax arrears. He added that talks were also underway with banks to arrange loan schemes for defaulters. Action against defaulters will be intensified after January 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extension-for-property-tax-amnesty-plan/articleshow/79631303.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Churchill tells rivals to not take NCP lightly||Colva: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA Churchill Alemao, while urging voters to cast their franchise for his party candidates contesting the zilla panchayat (ZP) polls, warned other national parties not to take NCP for granted. NCP has fielded Menino Fernandes in Benaulim, Vania Baptista in Colva, Sarita Fernandes in Curtorim, Jayant Salgaonkar in Agasaim and Naresh Kurgaonkar in Arambol. Alemao said his party has fielded only five candidates due to lack of time. He added that one of the opposition candidates for the ZP polls was raising issues of the Western Bypass on stilts and opposing double tracking of railway lines to transport coal. The Benaulim MLA said that the issue pertaining to Western Bypass will be solved only if River Sal is dredged and rain water is allowed to flow into the river. He said the government has already sanctioned Rs 11 crore for dredging and soon tender will be floated. Alemao said he has always objected to coal transportation to other states through Goa and, if need be, he will even block coal being brought to Mormugao Port Trust through the sea route. He said that by extending outside support to the BJP government he has managed to bring in developmental projects worth hundreds of crore. Responding to a question on his interest in contesting Navelim assembly seat again in the future, Alemao said he will contest from the constituency only if present Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro is not contesting from Navelim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-tells-rivals-to-not-take-ncp-lightly/articleshow/79632892.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Maths teacher who takes students on a historical sojourn||Ancient potsherds, fossils, Chola-era bricks, a German teapot and a couple of ‘paduka’ (ancient wooden footwear). There is a story behind each item that Selvaraj Nayakkavadiyar collected since the age of 25. The list is incomplete if you leave out the ancient coins, palm leaf manuscripts and beautiful beads. At 75, this retired mathematics teacher wants to donate his collection to schools to pique students’ interest in history. Selvaraj has taken the decision as he is not sure who will take care of his collection after him. "I have decided to hand over my personal collection over to some schools in Thanjavur where I live. It was my passion that drove me to collect these items, one after another, without looking into my pocket. It’s a journey of more than 50 years," said Selvaraj, who still conducts heritage walks in Thanjavur. The pairs of ‘paduka’, Selvaraj recalled. is from an ancient family who lived in Thanjavur. "The scions of the family didn’t bother to take care of these wooden sandals. I told them that I would like to have a pair and they asked me to take both," he said. In 1978, Selvaraj had donated more than 4,000 coins belonging to the Nayak and British era that he collected to the Tamil Nadu state archaeology department. There are more than 250 historical items, excluding coins, in Selvaraj’s collection. A 19th century German teapot, according to him, was collected from a family who lived in Madurai. However, the coins have been collected mostly from village heads over the years. "Travelling from one place to another and that too without proper information was challenging. There were many occasions I had to return with empty hands. But that never disappointed me as I was hopeful that I would find something soon," he said. Selvaraj is grateful to his students who came from the remote villages of Thanjavur and provided him info about artefacts. "I wouldn’t be able to collect these materials without the help of my students. They would come and inform me about items lying neglected in their villages and I would go and collect them," said Selvaraj. During one of his trips in the late 1980s, Selvaraj discovered a rare 11th century sculpture of Kulothunga Chola and handed it over to the Tamil University with the help of the district administration. The main source of inspiration, said Selvaraj, was his students at the government school in Swamimalai (Kumbakonam), where Selvaraj taught mathematics for 20 years. "Awareness among people about history and heritage was poor in the 1970s and 1980s. I had a good rapport with my students and I would discuss the importance of history and heritage with them. So credit goes to them for keeping my passion going. Now, I want to give these materials back to the student community," he said. "I have found a school in Thanjavur. The talk is on and soon I will hand these materials to the headmaster there," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maths-teacher-who-takes-students-on-a-historical-sojourn/articleshow/79634489.cms||M T Saju
December 9, 2020||Rajkot||Failing to find job, PhD graduate ends life in Rajkot||RAJKOT: A 28-year-old woman who completed her MPhil and PhD from Saurashtra University ended her life on Monday evening for not being able to find a job. Gunjan Khara, a native of Porbandar living on University Road in Rajkot, was found hanging from ceiling fan when her flatmates returned home around 7 pm on Monday. Police said that Khara was living in the paying guest accommodation for the past three years and was looking for jobs. Her suicide note stated that as she was not able to find the job, she was forced to take the extreme step. “Addressed to her parents, the woman wrote that despite studying so much, she has failed as she has not been able to secure neither a government job nor one in private sector,” said a police official. Khara’s flatmates were shocked to find her body when they reached home. They told cops that Khara had locked the house from inside and was not opening despite ringing the bell several times. They then took the duplicate key from the owner of the house, who lived next door and found her hanging. The flatmates also told police that she seemed fine after returning from her house in Porbandar a week ago. On Tuesday, the body was handed over to her parents after the post-mortem and necessary legal procedures. Khara’s father Amar works as a lawyer in Porbandar while the mother is a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/failing-to-find-job-phd-graduate-ends-life/articleshow/79630300.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolhapur||50% Kolhapur schools open for students of Std IX & X||KOLHAPUR: Around 50% of the schools in Kolhapur city resumed classes for students of standards IX and X on Monday. Fifty-eight of the 112 schools in the city reopened after nine months. Close to 2,010 students attended the classes on the first day. Shankar Yadav, school administration, Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, said teams were deployed last week to check if the infrastructure for screening and sanitising were in place in all the schools or not. “Most of the safety arrangements have been put in place as per the Covid-19 guidelines. Many schools have still not opened due to the delay in the arrival of the Covid test results of the teachers and the non-teaching staff. The managements are ensuring all the teachers get tested for Covid-19.” “We have conveyed that the teachers for Classes IX and X, at least two for each class, undergo the Covid test and get the reports. We expect all schools to reopen in the next two to three days.” Intially, the schools were to reopen on November 23. However, the state government authorised the district administration and the local bodies to take a call. Accordingly, Kolhapur district collector Daulat Desai asked the managements to reopen schools in a phased manner till December 7. However, he had made it clear that the RT-PCR test of the teachers and the non-teaching staff was mandatory along with screening of students, consent letters from parents, sanitising of classrooms, staff rooms and common places in the schools. The low turnout of students is because many of them are still opting for online classes. In the rural areas of Kolhapur district, most teachers and non-teaching staff have undergone the Covid test and received the results. Over 600 schools in the rural areas have been opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/50-kolhapur-schools-open-for-students-of-std-ix-x/articleshow/79633832.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Nature’s fireworks to take over skies on Dec 13||Panaji: The Geminids, arguably the best meteor show of this year, will be on display in the night skies around the world, including India, next week. On the intervening night of December 13 and 14, the Geminid Meteor Shower is set to reach its annual peak. Shooting stars will be visible in the east starting around 7.30pm on December 13 and continuing up to 7.30am on December 14. Around the globe, the shower’s peak occurs at around 2am, when the shower’s radiant point is highest in the sky. The Geminid meteor shower occurs when Earth passes through a trail of dusty gravel and debris left behind by the famous rock comet: 3200 Phaethon. A rock comet is a rocky asteroid that behaves like a comet, outgassing materials like rocks and grainy sand. The tiny meteoroids from 3200 Phaethon enter Earth’s upper atmosphere, producing bright streaks of light in the dark sky. These shooting stars appear to originate from the constellation Gemini, which gives the Geminid shower its name. If observed meticulously from a dark area, thus widening the scope of seeing even the smallest streaks, you can see anything from 120 to 160 meteors per hour streaking in the sky, which is phenomenal for a meteor shower. Added to this, since this year’s sighting coincides with the dark night of the December new moon, and considering that December and January are the best and clearest months annually for sky observation due to the crystal clear and sparsely clouded winter nights, the Geminids is expected to be a visual delight for skygazers. Although no public gatherings are permitted at any astronomical observatory in Goa owing to the pandemic, the Association of Friends of Astronomy (AFA) has urged people to enjoy this great event from the comfort of their balconies and open terraces. “You need to look eastwards after 9pm as Gemini- the twins, constellation rises. Easily distinguished by Castor and Pollux, the bright blue and yellow stars of equal brightness, the twins move up the sky and are at zenith by midnight,” AFA president Satish Nayak said. The best fireworks are expected by about 2am, when the constellation is placed very high in the dark winter sky. “You need to lie down and look, so as to not strain your neck, and warm clothing and a thermos of hot chocolate or coffee is all that you need to enjoy one of the best shows that the cosmos unfolds exclusively for you.” Nayak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/natures-fireworks-to-take-over-skies-on-dec-13/articleshow/79632894.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shops shut for some time, minimal business at Market Yard||PUNE: Shops across the city remained closed until early evening and there was minimal to no business at the Market Yard in Gultekdi in response to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions agitating against the new agriculture law. Officials at the Market Yard said that a few trucks had come in with vegetables from different states in the morning hours. “These trucks had started from different states four days ago and reached in the morning. While we supported the call for bandh, these trucks were unloaded as the perishable goods could have gone waste if left in the trucks. Other than that, no other business transactions took place at the Market Yard,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president of the Commission Agents Association at the Gultekdi Market Yard. Political parties also held agitations at several locations across the city in the morning. Party workers were seen moving on the streets telling shopkeepers to pull down shutters. “The Indian National Congress, along with constituents of Maha Vikas Aghadi and farmer associations held an agitation at Alka Talkies chowk in support of the bandh,” said Ramesh Bagwe, city Congress president. Protests were organized at seven locations in the city. No untoward incident was reported in relation to the bandh, joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve of the Pune police said. Police had deployed adequate bandobast at Market Yard, Deccan, Vishrambaug, Shivajinagar and other areas. “There was no disturbance to normal life owing to the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers,” he said. The bandh did impact public transport with the Pune division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) witnessing very few passengers. An MSRTC official said, “We were fully operational but there were no more than 8-10 passengers on our buses to Mumbai, which isn’t the case on normal days. People must have been scared of travelling due to the bandh as they feared they might get stuck,” the official added. People found it hard to book cabs on Tuesday. Traders supporting the bandh claimed most shops were closed during the morning hours. “We support the farmers. We decided to shut all shops from 9am to noon. More than 80% establishments remained closed for at least three hours,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of Federation of Trade Associations of Pune. However, Sachin Nivangune, the president of the Pune district Retail Traders Association, said that many shopkeepers had decided to ignore the call for bandh. “Only 50% shopkeepers followed the instructions. Their shops had remained closed during the lockdown and many didn’t want more losses. In Pune, there are close to 1.5 lakh retail outlets,” said Nivangune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shops-shut-for-some-time-minimal-biz-at-market-yard/articleshow/79631315.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 9, 2020||Pune||Pune: Petrol touches Rs 90 per litre, rate likely to drop in a week||PUNE: The state-owned oil marketing companies sold petrol at Rs90 per litre in Pune for the first time in more than two years on Tuesday, with the price of diesel touching almost Rs79 per litre. Petroleum dealers said that a substantial drop was expected in the coming week due to global events. The price of petrol was up by 29 paise on Tuesday, with such high being reached for the first time since September 2018, petroleum dealers said. The diesel price per litre in Pune was up by 26 paise at Rs78.97, according to the All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA). Pune was not the only city in Maharashtra to bear the brunt of high fuel prices. While the price of petrol in Mumbai’s island city was Rs 90.34 per litre, it was the highest in the state at Rs92.76 per litre in Parbhani followed by Rs92.49 per litre at Nanded. “The US had kept the barrel rates low for months due to the elections, but now the price of crude oil has gone up again, touching $50 per barrel. Supply was reduced globally by OPEC due to the collapse in demand for over eight months, which is also why the sudden surge in demand post-reopening caused prices to rise,” said Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson, AIPDA. “I need two-three litres of fuel everyday for my motorbike to make my rounds of delivery and the increase in fuel prices will reduce my income further,” said Rohan Jadhav, who works with two restaurant aggregators. “I hope the prices reduce soon. How can people afford to spend so muuch on fuel when incomes are down?” said Maniram Chaudhary, a grocery shopowner in Vadgaonsheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-touches-rs-90/l-rate-likely-to-drop-in-a-week/articleshow/79631319.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Punjab connect bonds Sikhs in city with anti-farm law stir||Nagpur: City’s Sikh community, having its roots in Punjab and their kin’s close connection to agriculture, had turned up in large numbers during the anti-farm law demonstrations at Automotive Square on Kamptee Road during the Bharat bandh on Tuesday. At one corner of the protest site, members representing three generations of the community were present to lend their voice to the agitation. Harsimran Kaur, a student of Std XII, was present along with her great-grandmother 80-year-old Malkit Kaur and other family members. Harsimran said the newly enacted laws should be repealed or else there would be grave consequences. “The laws are anti-people. As much as it would affect the farmers, it would also hurt the commoners to almost the same extent. The farmers are our ‘annadata’ (giver of food) and we are leading them to disaster,” she said. Her version was supported by her great-grandma, who made it a point to remain present at the demonstration. Jasleen Kaur, also a student of Std XII, was vociferously raising slogans at Automotive Square against the farm laws enacted by the Centre. Though now based in the city, Jasleen expressed pride in having her roots in Punjab and more prominently the farming background of her family which propelled her to take up the cause. Jasleen, who also held placards denouncing the farm laws, said her ancestors had migrated from Punjab to start some business, but their connection to the native land still bridges a close bond between her and kin who stayed there. “My kin back in Punjab, who are suffering due to the new farm laws, are the reason for me stepping out. Due to Covid restrictions, my relatives in Punjab are not being able to do justice to farming,” she said. “If the farm laws are not repealed, there would be no future for the farmers and with them, the country’s fate too would be doomed,” she added. Transporter Malkit Singh Bal, whose family owned farmland at Kapurthala, said the new laws would lead to closure of government-run markets which earlier purchased farm produce. “The central government had ruined Bihar’s farmers in 2016 and left them in such a pitiable condition that they had migrated to Punjab to work as labourers to sustain,” he said. “My farmer friends from Punjab are fighting it out in the open braving Delhi’s cold and hardships. I cannot sit at home,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/punjab-connect-bonds-sikhs-in-city-with-anti-farm-law-stir/articleshow/79631341.cms||Soumitra Bose
December 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal liquor manufacturing unit busted, 2 nabbed||Patiala: Excise and taxation officials of Patiala have busted an illegal liquor manufacturing unit and recovered 20,000 litres of ENA as well as 43 boxes of illegal liquor in Rajpura of Patiala district. On Tuesday evening, officials of the excise department conducted a raid and confiscated a tanker loaded with ENA at a temporary bottling plant near the Rajpura-Sirhind bypass. Officials said the accused had stored empty bottles, caps, holograms, labels and ENA in large quantity at an illegal bottling plant, where they used to fill illegal liquor into bottles. These bottles were marked in the name of country-made liquor brands. Excise officials claimed to have nabbed two persons while two others allegedly managed to escape. They said one of the accused nabbed on Tuesday was already booked under relevant sections of the IPC and Excise Act after an illegal manufacturing unit was busted this May. In May, excise officials busted manufacturing units of illegal liquor at Ghanaur of Rajpura division in Patiala district where the bottles were filled with illegal liquor and labelled as top liquor brands. Politicians from opposition parties in Punjab demanded a high-level probe alleging links between ruling legislators in Patiala with the accused. “We have nabbed two accused, including Dipesh Kumar, who was out on bail. He was earlier arrested when an illegal liquor manufacturing unit was busted in Ghanaur block and a huge amount of ENA was recovered with bottles, caps, holograms and labels of top liquor brands. This time, labels of country-made liquor were recovered in large quantity. The case is being registered at the local Rajpura police station and further investigation is underway,” said Rohit, an excise taxation officer in Patiala. After the Punjab hooch tragedy killed over 112 persons in three districts of Punjab following consumption of spurious liquor, police in Patiala conducted raids at several dhabas in Shambu and Rajpura area of Patiala district. They recovered raw material for illegal liquor preparation besides some illegal liquor boxes. A few arrests were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-manufacturing-unit-busted-2-nabbed/articleshow/79632923.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 9, 2020||Pune||Trash unit operators under lens||Pune: The civic standing committee has directed the administration to take action against agencies that failed to operate waste-processing units at their full capacity. The standing committee of Pune Municipal Corporation had last week sought a report on the status of the garbage-processing plants in the city. The report was submitted on Tuesday. “The performance of some agencies is not up to the mark. We told the administration to blacklist such agencies and impose fines,” PMC standing committee chairperson Hemant Rasne said. The city generates about 2,00o metric tonnes of garbage per day, of which 400 metric tonnes of dry and mixed waste was not being processed. “This is because some plants are not operating at full capacity. We are working on increasing the city’s daily processing capacity by setting up new plants,” he said. Rasne also said members of the committee will regularly monitor the performance of these plants through site visits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trash-unit-operators-under-lens/articleshow/79631323.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Shiv Sena corporators stage stir over water supply woes||NASHIK: Shiv Sena corporator Kiran Gamne on Monday staged a demonstration at the elevated water tank in the city against the irregular water supply in parts of Cidco division. Another six-seven Shiv Sena corporators also staged a demonstration at the Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan, where the online general body meeting of the Nashik Municipal Corporation was under way. Taking serious cognizance of this, Nashik city mayor Satish Kulkarni has called a meeting of water supply officials and also corporators from Cidco and Nashik East division on Tuesday. Corporators complained of irregular supply in wards numbers 27, 28, 29 and 31 of Cidco division. “Direct water pipeline from Mukane dam has been laid up to Nashik city for Cidco division, but parts of the division are not getting water. It is deliberately being diverted towards parts of Nashik East division by managing a valve of the main pipeline,” alleged Gamne. “Earlier, we would get water at 3 pm, but it is now being supplied at night. Moreover, inadequate water is being supplied with low pressure for the past few days,” said Ratnamala Rane, Sena corporator. “This is causing inconvenience to the residents of Cidco division,” added Ratnamala Rane. Addl commissioner to be repatriated The general body of NMC on Monday decided to repatriate additional municipal commissioner Pravin Ashtikar, due to his continuous absence. He was in charge of tackling Covid-19 in Nashik city. The decision to this effect was taken by mayor Satish Kulkarni after members of all parties complained about Ashtikar’s absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sena-corporators-stage-stir-over-water-supply-woes/articleshow/79633837.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 9, 2020||Pune||Youth dies as bike crashes into vehicle||Pune: A 25-year-old youth riding a two-wheeler died and his friend sitting pillion was critically injured after their bike crashed into the rear portion of a vehicle on the Daund-Patas highway around 11.30pm on Sunday. Police said the the impact of the crash was such that the head of the deceased, Akshay Pandhare of Gokulnagar in Daund, got severed from his body. The critically injured, Vithhal Mane (24) of Daund, was shifted to a hospital in Pune and is unconscious, police said. Police said as there were no witness to the accident and the other vehicle did not stop after the crash, they were yet to ascertain the make of vehicle and the identity of its driver. Assistant inspector Rishikesh Adhikari of the Daund police told TOI, “Prima facie probe revealed that their speeding scooter crashed into the rear portion of a vehicle. We believe driving at a high speed was the cause of the accident as the front of the scooter was found to be completely damaged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-dies-as-bike-crashes-into-vehicle/articleshow/79631329.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||State eyes central funds to set up tribal institute||Panaji: A Tribal Research Institute (TRI) may be set up in the state and a proposal to establish it is in the offing. TRI is the research body of the ministry of tribal affairs at the state-level. Chief minister Pramod Sawant instructed the directorate of tribal welfare to send the Union government proposals for grants for various projects which will help uplift the living conditions of the state’s Scheduled Tribe community. “Tribal museum, tribal art and heritage are a part of the TRI. Once we receive the funds to establish the institute, we can begin with our research in this respect,” director of tribal welfare Sandhya Kamat said. She said that the file in this regard has been cleared by the chief minister. The file has been submitted to the finance department for approval. Following which, it will be forwarded to the Union ministry of tribal affairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-eyes-central-funds-to-set-up-tribal-institute/articleshow/79632907.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Dead man’s credentials used to get names deleted from voters’ list: GPCC||VASCO: The identity of a dead man has been used to file objection online to get names of 14 voters from Mormugao constituency deleted from the voters’ list, vice-president of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) Sankalp Amonkar told Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Desai on Tuesday. Desai assured, Amonkar and other protesters, that he would inquire into the case and, if the claims are proven, get an FIR filed against those involved. The GPCC led a morcha to Desai’s office protesting against the fraudulent ways used to delete and add names to the voter list of Mormugao constituency. Amonkar alleged that fraudulent ways are being adopted by the BLOs on behest of Mormugao MLA and urban development minister Milind Naik. “I personally called up the persons objecting to the electors’ names over the phone. I realised that their identities were all fake. Some phone numbers given were from outside Goa and did not acknowledge giving any objection. It has become simple to file objections as the process is now online,” alleged Amonkar. He said the objections are being filed against the names of Muslims, Catholics and non-Goans. Amonkar alleged that Congress voters were being especially targeted. “Out of 29 BLOs, 21 are from the electricity department who were given jobs by Naik when he was power minister during his last term. Only in Mormugao constituency, out of all four constituencies of Mormugao taluka, as many as 900 objections on voters have come in,” Amonkar alleged. Desai told the protesters that his office will identify the objectioners and take their signatures. “Later the person against whom the objection is filed will be traced and served notice and given seven days to come for the hearing. On that day the objectioner too will be called. Only after due satisfaction that the names need to be deleted, we will delete the name,” Desai said. He also assured that wherever one person is found to be objecting to many names or multiple persons are found being added to the voters’ list based on one address, the deputy collector and the mamlatdar will personally visit and carry out the necessary investigations. Desai said that police help will be taken if fraudulent cases are detected. He said BLOs who are found guilty of any manipulation would be suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dead-mans-credentials-used-to-get-names-deleted-from-voters-list-gpcc/articleshow/79632955.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||2 feared dead in ECL’s Dhanbad mine inundation||SINDRI: Two persons working at Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL)’s Khudiya Khadan mine at Mugma area in Dhanbad district are feared dead after they went missing when water gushed in from the neighbouring pit at about 3am on Tuesday. Pump operators Basia Manjhi and Manik Bauri were not found 15 hours after the incident, sources said. The sources said 40-odd workers were in the mine for night duty on Monday. While colliery officials refused to comment about the incident, others who managed to escape from the mine said the water level inside the mine had touched 25 metres and the chances that the two have survived were slim. A rescue team is trying to pump water out of the mine and the district administration has sought help from NDRF to find the trapped miners. Nirsa circle officer M N Mansur said the colliery management informed him about the incident about 4am and rescue operations were launched immediately. “We have also summoned an NDRF team," he added. Nirsa MLA Aparna Sengupta (BJP) blamed ECL’s Mugma area general manager Bibhash Chandra Singh for the incident. She said a similar incident had taken place in another pit on November 27 and Tuesday's mishap could have been avoided had the management taken lessons from it. She demanded action against Singh and sought his transfer. Singh could not be reached for his comments. Former Nirsa MLA Arup Chatterjee said the ECL management had earlier said that the mine was not operational for a long time. One of the boreholes of the mine, neither mentioned in the survey report nor shown in the map, burst, submerging the mine. While most miners managed to escape, the got trapped, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-feared-dead-in-ecls-dhanbad-mine-inundation/articleshow/79631482.cms||Anil Ashutosh
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||3 killers hired by wife to eliminate forester husband held in Hazaribag||HAZARIBAG: Three contract killers hired to murder a 45-year-old forest department official by his wife were arrested here, police said on Tuesday. According to the police, the forester's wife is allegedly having an affair with her husband's friend identified as Naveen Rana. Speaking to the media, Hazaribag SP Karthik S said, "We received a tip-off on December 2 about three contract killers, identified as Imad Hussain, Navin Rana and Md Noman from Meru area of Hazaribag, were hired to eliminate a forester. They were hired by the offcial's wife who lives in Gaya, Bihar. The contract killers were given Rs 95,000 as advance while the rest Rs 5 lakh was promised once they completed the task." He further said, "Soon after we got the information, a special investigation team was formed to nab the culprits. The breakthrough came on December 6 night and arrested the trio. After their interrogation, the culprits were produced in a court, which forwarded them to judicial custody." The SP added, "The forester's wife wanted to eliminate her husband and hatched a conspiracy with Navin, with whom she was having an illicit affair. Navin has confessed his involvement in the conspiracy to us. Efforts are on to nab the woman."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-killers-hired-by-wife-to-eliminate-forester-husband-held-in-hbag/articleshow/79631544.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Jamshedpur||East Singhbhum plans vax centres at every 2km in urban areas||JAMSHEDPUR: With expectations of a Covid-19 vaccine rolling out soon, the East Singhbhum administration is planning to set up vaccination centres at every 2km in urban areas in the district. District health authorities said a joint meeting attended by top officials of various departments have decided to prepare a blueprint in this regard. The meeting was attended by officials of PWD, power supply, police, BDOs and SDOs. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Dr Laxmi Kumari of the health department said, “During the meeting, detailed discussions were held on how the vaccine should be made available for the public once it is rolled out by the government. Discussions were also held on taking over certain buildings at every 2km and convert them into vaccination centres.” Meanwhile, a 60-year-old woman infected with the novel coronavirus died at the Tata Main Hospital on Monday. The resident of Kadma area was admitted to the hospital on December 3 and had comorbidities like diabetes and other ailments, hospital sources said. The district also reported 25 new Covid cases and 17 recoveries. All 25 cases were reported from rural areas, with Patamda detecting the highest at 21. The data provided by the state health authorities also said the recovery rate in the district has touched 96.36%. With 355 casualties till Monday night — translating into a fatality rate of 2.05% — Eas Singhbhum is the worst affected district in the state as far as the toll is concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/e-singhbhum-plans-vax-centres-at-every-2km-in-urban-areas/articleshow/79631374.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||Freight movement returns to almost pre-Covid levels: SER||Bokaro: With industries in the state, particularly in Bokaro district, witnessing a turnaround in their businesses after the lockdown, freight movement in the Adra railway division of South Eastern Railways (SER) has seen a sharp increase, resulting in a rise in its earnings. Post the lockdown, the Bokaro railway station, one of the highest revenue-generating stations of the division, has multiplied its frequency of transporting steel and cement from the factories here to nearly its pre-Covid levels. Divisional railway manager Navin Kumar said freight movements have become almost normal and the highest earnings of the division came from transporting coals of the Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) in West Bengal, but is showing a gradual decline because of the rise in coal prices. He said while 65%-70% of freight earnings come from coal transport, ferrying steel products accounted for 15%-20% and the cement industry provided 5%. "After the lockdown, coal transport has decreased by about 30% but steel transportation has increased by 15%-20%. Remarkably, cement transportation has increased roughly three times as the division covers four cement plants in Bokaro. Of the four, Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) is a major revenue generator," Kumar said. The Adra division is also putting focus on Bokaro railway station, the only major station of the division in Jharkhand, because of the cement and steel industries. All other big stations generating revenue for the division falls in West Bengal. During the lockdown period, reduced production at BSL, Dalmia and other industries had curtailed the freight movements. According to SER officials, Adra division has three main revenue generators. Among them is BSL, which dispatches around four rakes daily to south India, Paradeep, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana among others. In a month, the Bokaro railway station collects around Rs 45 crore as freight charges from BSL alone. Dalmia is the second highest revenue generator and sends at least one rake daily. The company provides about Rs 1.4 crore as freight charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/freight-movement-returns-to-almost-pre-covid-levels-ser/articleshow/79614888.cms||Divy Khare
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||2 murder accused flee with police vehicle||DUMKA: In a scene straight out of a Bollywood potboiler, two men accused in a murder case escaped from police custody while being taken to a court in Sahebganj district by taking control of the vehicle they were travelling in. Akash Kumar and Anjana Kumar, residents of Dangal Para and Rasikpur in Dumka district, were arrested on Monday and were being taken to a sub-divisional court at Rajmahal in the neighbouring Sahebganj. As the vehicle reached the court, the police escorts and the driver stepped out, leaving the ignition key. The duo, who were handcuffed, started the vehicle and fled. Sahebganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta has suspended three cops — SI Anil Dubey, ASI Anwar Ansari and Havildar Sugandh Mahto — for dereliction of duty after a probe report was submitted by the SDPO (Rajmahal). “The police vehicle was found abandoned near Gandhi Chowk and efforts are on to re-nab them. A probe is on to find out if the cops accompanying the two were involved in helping them to escape.” He added, “Both are accused in with the murder of Jhaksu Mandal belonging to Rasikpur Mohalla under town police station in Dumka. Mandal's body was found from a place under Ranga police station in Sahebganj on November 9. A separate case under Section 128 of the IPC in connection with the escape has been filed at the Rajmahal police station, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-murder-accused-flee-with-police-vehicle/articleshow/79631257.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Surat||Hotel on NH-8 near Bharuch gutted, nobody hurt||SURAT: A major fire broke out at Hotel Nyay Mandir situated on the National Highway (NH-8) near Narmada Chowkdi in Bharuch on the Tuesday night. There was, however, no report of any casualty so far. Due to the fire, the traffic at GNFC corner was diverted. However, the people present inside the hotel had rushed to safety soon after a spark inside the premises. Primary report from Bharuch’s fire department stated that the fire broke out at about 8.30 pm. About two water bousers were rushed to the spot along with the team of about 15 fire fighters. Chief fire officer of Bharuch Nagarpalika, Salim Mohan said, “There are no reports of casualty so far. Initial report suggest that there was some function organised at the hotel premises when the fire incident occurred. However, it was not the case.” Mohan added, “The fire could have erupted due to short circuit, but we are yet to ascertain the actual cause. The entire hotel premise is gutted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hotel-on-nh-8-near-bharuch-gutted-nobody-hurt/articleshow/79630828.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Vadodara||Two kids die in leopard attacks in Panchmahal||VADODARA: Two children were killed in attacks by leopards in Ghoghamba taluka of Panchmahal district within few hours on Tuesday. An eight-year-old boy was attacked near the Kantaveda village when he had gone out to graze his goats with others. In another incident, a five-year-old boy, who was playing outside his house was attacked by a leopard, on Tuesday night. Ghoghamba taluka has a healthy forest growth. Leopards are known the reside in the forests and incidents of man-animal conflict have been reported here in the past too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-kids-die-in-leopard-attacks/articleshow/79630422.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||First post-Covid care centre opens at Rims||RANCHI: The maiden post-Covid care centre in the state started its operations at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) on Tuesday. The centre was set up in the wake of reports of people experiencing health problems post their recovery from Covid-19. The new facility is currently functioning from the Emergency section of the hospital. The centre will also counsel the patients, besides providing them post-recovery care. Talking to TOI, Dr Prabhat Kumar of the Covid task force at Rims said, “There are frequent reports of people developing complications after recovering from Covid-19. However, the exact number of such persons is not available as they tend to visit different doctors.” He added that most patients with post-Covid complications develop lung fibrosis, though problems related to psychology, chest and physiotherapy were also being reported. Kumar said, “We are expecting four to five patients to visit the centre every day on an average. The centre would operate from 10am to 11:30am and from 3pm to 4:30pm.” State health department officials said that four such centres will be set up in other key urban pockets that have registered significant number of infections. Sources said that the centres may come up at the Tata Medical College in Jamshedpur, Sahid Nirmal Mahto College and Hospital in Dhanbad, Shiekh Bhikhari Medical College and Hospital in Hazaribag and at the Bokaro General Hospital in Bokaro. The reports of post-Covid complications have surfaced at a time when the Covid graph in Jharkhand has been on a steady decline. Many health experts had warned that the festival season, which started with Durga Puja in October, would lead to a spike in Covid cases but prompt action by the government and greater adherence to Covid protocols by the citizens have largely negated those fears. Till Tuesday afternoon, the state had registered 1,10,457 Covid cases, of which only 1,759 are active. The Ranchi district had the highest number of active cases at 757, followed by East Singhbhum with 275 cases. The rest of the districts have active Covid cases in either single or double digits. The Ranchi district with a figure of 27,478 also had the highest number of recoveries in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1st-post-covid-care-centre-opens-at-rims/articleshow/79631320.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Hospitalization criteria set to change for curbing deaths||Nagpur: With an eye on rising Covid-19 deaths in Vidarbha of patients from rural areas, the administration is set to revise its hospitalization criteria. Early hospitalization of vulnerable citizens is on the cards. Covid-19 deaths from cities and urban areas have significantly reduced in the region, but patients coming from the rural outskirts in serious condition are dying due to late reporting. To curb that, the earlier criteria for hospitalization — monitoring of oxygen saturation (SpO2) with pulse oximeter — will most likely be revised. Two prominent government hospitals in Nagpur — the Government Medical College (GMCH) and the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) have already started insisting Covid-19 positive patients above 50 years of age to get admitted, even if asymptomatic.On the same lines, patients with comorbid conditions like hypertension and diabetes are asked to get hospitalized even if their SpO2 level is normal. However, an official notification in this regard is yet to be released. So hospitals cannot force these patients to get admitted.A senior official from the Covid task force in Nagpur told TOI that curbing deaths due to Covid-19 is foremost on the administration’s agenda now. “New cases are under control but Covid-19 deaths are still substantial. More deaths are now being reported from rural areas. A major reason for this is late reporting,” said the official. As hospitals and Covid care centres (CCCs) have enough beds vacant, the government can soon take a decision to shift elderly patients from rural areas into them without applying the SpO2 criteria. This will bring the patients under medical supervision and they will get immediate help in case their condition deteriorates. Doctors have also advised the same to city patients. “Seek hospitalization early. Do not wait for oxygen to fall,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. He added, “Don’t neglect symptoms. Get Covid-tested early and isolate if you test positive. There is no point in staying at home without any reason. You have to get hospitalized once your condition deteriorates,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hospitalization-criteria-set-to-change-for-curbing-deaths/articleshow/79631540.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Mixed response to Bharat Bandh, RTC buses stay off streets till 1pm||Vijayawada: The Bharat Bandh call by farmers’ groups on Tuesday against the three farm bills saw a limited response in Andhra Pradesh compared to neighbouring states like Telangana where political parties extensively supported the call. The state government closed some government offices while RTC bus services did not run till 1 pm in the afternoon. As a result, commuters could be seen stranded at bus stations, especially at Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) for hours. Colleges and universities which were already functioning in a limited capacity due to the pandemic remained shut for the day in accordance with the instructions from the government. Police sources said that there were no instances of stalling traffic or ‘rail rokos’ in the state. Traffic was affected on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border in Krishna district where several trucks were seen making beelines due to ‘road rokos’ on the Telangana side. Meanwhile, truckers struggled to find food and could be seen making beelines at one or two open dhabas. Speaking to the media, agriculture minister Kurasala Kanna Babu maintained a neutral stand and said that the government respects the sentiments of farmers’ associations and that the strike can be observed till 1 pm in a manner that people are not inconvenienced. However, both YSRC and TDP did support the farm bills in Parliament back in September. “Ours is a farmer-friendly government, we support the Bharat Bandh call. We urged the farmers’ association to cooperate with state authorities so that the Bandh is done peacefully,” the minister said. Protests in the state were largely led by CPI(M) and Congress. In Vijayawada, Congress supporters wore tricolour ‘kanuvas’ (towels) and staged a demonstration near PNBS. Left party activists were seen holding protests by forming human chains at various important junctions like Lenin Centre and Besant Road. In Visakhapatnam, auto-rickshaw unions, labour unions, student groups and women associations took part in demonstrations. The Bharat Bandh call elicited a response in tribal areas of north Andhra Pradesh too where hundreds took part in protests. Bandh was observed in Maddilapalem, Kancharapalem, Gopalapatnam, Pendurthi, Madhurawada, Gajuwaka and the industrial area of Malkapuram. The Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) Civilian Employees Union reiterated its solidarity with struggling farmers. "Our union supported the demands of the farmers in front of NSTL Family Gate," informed VSN Murthy, president of the union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mixed-response-to-bharat-bandh-rtc-buses-stay-off-streets-till-1pm/articleshow/79630459.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Schools awaiting collector’s order over reopening||Nagpur: On Monday when district authorities gave a green signal for school reopening from next week, schools in rural areas could not help but go through a deja vu moment. Similar decision to reopen schools in both city and rural Nagpur had been taken last month too and then cancelled, thus leaving schools stranded with futile sanitization bills and unnecessary logistical exercises. Many high enrolment CBSE schools in rural Nagpur told TOI that they won’t even contact parents unless they get tangible proof of reopening. One principal said, “Last month, the education department directed us to reopen from November 26 but the order from collector’s office never came. We thought it must simply be a formality and got the entire premises sanitized and even did drills with staff on how to handle the students’ entry.” And with hardly 16 hours left for school gates to reopen, the district collectorate decided to defer the reopening till December 13. Another principal said, “We ultimately looked like fools in front of parents and staff. All the effort we put in galvanizing the staff, getting everyone into game-ready mode goes waste. This time, we will simply not budge till the collector’s written order is received.” Resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi told TOI that no fixed date has been set for issuing the order. “Schools are anyway closed till December 13. So, it will be done well in time,” said Khajanchi. Schools, however, were not happy to be kept in the dark. A school’s trustee said, “Technically, they are in the right by holding on to the written order till December 13, but that does not give us enough time to reopen from the next day. I have instructed my principal to not contact any parent till the collector’s order comes. No point in mobilizing everybody now.” In the meeting on Monday chaired by district guardian minister Nitin Raut, civic officials hinted that city schools may reopen from December end. Considering that vacations are usually on during that period, it’s more likely that the actual reopening will happen from January first week. Dilip Bose, secretary of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said civic officials must not get into the habit of issuing last-minute orders. Bose said, “Minimum one week advance notice must be given by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for reopening. There are lots of things to be done by aided schools like us that do not have access to surplus cash for sanitization etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-awaiting-collectors-order-over-reopening/articleshow/79631633.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||When will TTD submit white paper on properties, asks HC||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Tuesday asked the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams when would it submit the white paper pertaining to properties of Lord Venkateswara. The TTD had earlier filed an affidavit in reply to a PIL, stating that it will release a white paper on its properties. J Amaranath, a BJP functionary from Anantapur, had moved the high court challenging the decision of the TTD to auction 23 of its properties situated in Tamil Nadu. The TTD told the court that it had withdrawn that decision and no auction was conducted. However, the petitioner told the court that though the TTD stopped the auction process of its properties in Tamil Nadu, another notification was issued to auction 50 other properties. Advocate Y Balaji argued on behalf of the petitioner, saying that the TTD is running with donations given by devotees. He said it is the duty of the TTD to protect and preserve the properties donated by the devotees. As the matter involved the sentiments and belief of millions of devotees, the TTD should publish the list of properties online to allay their fears, he said. The standing counsel of the TTD told the high court that they are taking all measures to protect the temple’s properties. The high court bench, comprising Justice C Praveen Kumar and Justice D Ramesh, asked when the TTD would submit the white paper on its properties as mentioned in its earlier affidavit. After the TTD counsel sought time, the court posted the matter for further hearing to December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/when-will-ttd-submit-white-paper-on-properties-asks-hc/articleshow/79630477.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD to seek moratorium on SPF fees||TIRUPATI: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board will appeal to the state government to grant it a two-year moratorium for Rs 81.39 crore dues to special protection force (SPF). Following a communication from the state finance department to TTD on December 18 last year to pay Rs 74,72,44,304 towards arrears of SPF guard charges and Rs 20,04,48,081 towards pending service tax, the trust board addressed a letter to the state government to waive the guard charges as it was the responsibility of the state government to provide security to public places and temples as is being followed in the case of other temples. The TTD has, however, paid Rs 4.31 crore service tax arrears under the central government’s Sabka Vishwas scheme. But the state government struck down TTD’s request for waiver of guard charges in June and asked it to clear the arrears immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-to-seek-moratorium-on-spf-fees/articleshow/79630500.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||Bandh peaceful but veggie supply, retail business down in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Bharat bandh in support of farmers passed off peacefully in Mumbai on Tuesday with normal life largely unaffected. Transport functioned smoothly with buses and taxis running. Banks and offices were open. Supply of fruits and vegetables was impacted though, as APMC markets that supply essentials to Mumbai observed the strike. And while most retail shops were open, they stayed shut in pockets such as the Shiv Sena strongholds of Dadar, Parel, Sewri and Lalbaug in Central Mumbai. All five market yards at Navi Mumbai APMC were closed. This affected the supply of fruits and vegetables to the city and pushed up retail prices by at least 10%. While 231 trucks and tempos arrived at the APMC, they were not unloaded. Though the bulk of retail shops were open, trade was down. "Although 90% shops were open, business was down 30-40% as most people stayed indoors," said Viren Shah of the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association. Shops were also closed in Matunga, Ghatkopar, Mulund, Thane's Tembhi Naka, Chembur station, Navi Mumbai and the Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander belts. Traffic in the city was largely unaffected, except briefly during rallies on the Sion-Panvel Highway and Eastern Expressway. There was less traffic on the roads on account of people staying indoors. Pan-Maharashtra, the effect was stronger. Around 10 lakh trucks were off the roads. The transporters industry in the state faced losses totalling Rs 300 crore, according to the All India Motor Transport Congress. MSRTC operated over 10,000 bus services in the state but cancelled 8,000 due to protests. While farmers and trade unions demonstrated across the state, 30,000 bank employees affiliated to Maharashtra State Bank Employees Federation wore badges and joined protests. Political leaders from the ruling parties were also part of the protests. Congress ministers Ashok Chavan, Balasaheb Thorat, Nitin Raut and Sunil Kedar were part of a protest near Lal Bahadur Shastri statue near Regal. Sikh groups came out in large numbers both in the city and the state, responding to calls from gurudwaras and Punjabi organisations to support the farmers' cause. They held posters saying, "No Farmers No Food" and "Farmers Survival is Nation's Survival". Sikh groups gathered in Khar, Sion, Dadar and Navi Mumbai. "Our roots not just as a community but as a nation lie in farming," said Gursewak Singh, who joined the protest in Sion. (With Sanjeev Devasia, Manoj Badgeri, Nishikant Karlekar, Bella Jaisinghani)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandh-peaceful-but-veggie-supply-retail-business-down-in-mumbai/articleshow/79634848.cms||Somit Sen
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Barber dies after drinking aftershave||Vijayawada: Unable to afford the alcohol, a 40-year-old barber, who happened to be an alcoholic, died after consuming aftershave lotion at his shop at Two-Town police station limits in Vijayawada on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Lakshman, a barber working in a private salon near Sai Ram Theatre. According to Two-Town police, Lakshman was financially broke as the salon owner could not pay his salary due to losses incurred during the lockdown. Police sources said that Lakshman had mixed the aftershave lotion into soft drinks and consumed it on Monday. After the shop owner found him lying in an unconscious state, he was rushed to a local government hospital for treatment where he breathed his last on Tuesday morning. Cops registered a case under section 174 of CrPC (unnatural death) at Two-Town police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/barber-dies-after-drinking-aftershave/articleshow/79630512.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Ambani, Mittal differ on 5G rollout timeline||NEW DELHI: The chiefs of Indian telecom giants Reliance Jio and Bharti Airtel spoke in different voices over rollout of 5G in India, with Mukesh Ambani seeing a possibility by the end of next year, while Sunil Mittal — the man who made the earliest bet on the telecom sector in the 1990s — saying that the new telephony tech will become a norm in mobile broadband only over two-to-three years. Speaking at the opening session of the India Mobile Congress (held virtually online) ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s inaugural address, Ambani pitched for indigenous development of 5G technology, though Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal termed indigenous development as an “existential threat”, which could “lock India out of global ecosystem”. Ambani, whose company Reliance Jio has raced to the top position in the telecom sector in a short span of four years after beginning services in September 2016, said that India is one of the largest digitallyconnected societies, and needs to upgrade to faster technologies to move further ahead in speed and experiences. “It (5G) will be powered by indigenously developed network, hardware and technology components. Jio’s 5G service will be a testimony to your inspiring vision of Atma-Nirbhar Bharat,” Ambani said.. Ambani also took a swipe at his rivals Airtel and Vodafone Idea who still offer 2G mobile services in the country against Jio’s 4G-only operations. “As many as 300 million mobile subscribers in India are still trapped in the 2G era. Urgent policy steps are needed to ensure that these underprivileged people have an affordable smartphone, so that they too can benefit from Direct Benefit Transfer into their bank accounts, and actively participate in the digital economy.” Mittal, who spoke after Ambani, had a different take as he said the next-generation 5G would start to become the norm in the mobile broadband space only over two-to-three years. Vittal said rather being local in approach to handle 5G, India should follow global standards. Development of a separate 5G standard will impact innovation, he said. The government, while speaking about the need for 5G, is still to give concrete dates for the auction of 5G spectrum. C P Gurnani, the chief executive of Tech Mahindra, said telecom has proven to be the backbone of the Indian industry during the corona pandemic and technologies such as 5G is now a reality in many parts of the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ambani-mittal-differ-on-5g-rollout-timeline/articleshow/79634830.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Deposit excess amount of 50 Covid patients: HC to hosp||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked Viveka Super Specialty Hospital and Research Centre Private Ltd to deposit Rs17,97,040 excess amount of 50 Covid-19 patients with it. It also directed the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) not to take any coercive action against the hospital till further orders.The special bench of justices SB Shukre and Anil Kilor held a hearing on a writ petition filed by Viveka Hospital challenging the civic body’s notice for refunding excess amount to patients and passed an interim relief to the hospital. The HC also issued notices to the NMC and state government for filing replies.On October 14, the NMC had issued notices to 16 private hospitals, including Viveka Hospital, to refund excess amount to Covid positive patients. But, the hospital failed to do so. On October 26, the NMC issued a notice to the same hospital directing it to reimburse Rs17,97,040 to 50 patients within two days or face action.Among 50 patients, 17 were discharged on September 20 and 21 and 33 patients between October 1 and 19. The patients and their relatives were reportedly making rounds of the NMC for refund. Still, the hospital did not comply with the NMC’s notice. The hospital challenged NMC’s order through a writ petition in HC.On December 4, the NMC submitted a letter to Pratap Nagar police asking to file an offence against the hospital and its directors for not refunding the excess amount. Police were supposed to take statement of NMC official and proceed with further action. The case was pending with police.Appearing for Viveka Hospital, advocates SP Dharmadhikari and Kartik N Shukul reportedly argued regarding the legality of orders passed by the NMC.Shukul told TOI, “The NMC had not issued any show cause notice, thereby informing the hospital that coercive action may be taken against it. The NMC had appointed auditors in exercise of powers under regulation 10 of state government’s notification dated March 14. The notification did not empower the NMC to appoint auditors for private hospitals.”“It was argued that the hospital had charged rates of services provided as per notification dated May 21. The hospital had also provided services which were above and beyond the services mentioned in the notification. After hearing at length, HC stayed the effect and operation of the impugned order until further orders. This means that no FIR can be registered against the hospital and no penalties can be imposed,” he said.Representing the NMC, advocate Jemini Kasat justified the civic body’s notice to the hospital. “The government has fixed rates for treatment of Covid patients. Th NMC did audit of bills issued by Viveka Hospital and found that charges recovered from patients were above rates fixed by the government. Therefore, the NMC was correct to direct the hospital to refund excess amount to the patients.”“Pleading for interim relief, the hospital wished it can deposit the said amount with HC. Then, the court directed the hospital to deposit the amount with it within seven days and directed the NMC not to take any coercive action,” he said.As per NMC’s notice, Viveka Hospital had taken separate charges from the patients for visits of consultant, resident medical officer, nursing, dietician, tests, nutritional screening, housekeeping, linen handling, sanitization, bactorub, face shield, Covid utility kit, gloves, biomedical waste bag etc despite all these being part of the package finalized by the government.In the writ petition, Viveka Hospital challenged the government’s decision to cap rates for Covid patients. Also, the NMC’s decision to appoint auditors for doing audit of bills of private hospitals has been challenged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deposit-excess-amount-of-50-covid-patients-hc-to-hosp/articleshow/79631720.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Two fake Maoists held in Srikakulam||Srikakulam: District police on Tuesday arrested two persons who were posing as Maoists and seized two fake pistols, five pairs of olive green uniforms and five single-barrel guns. According to Palakonda DSP Sravani, three persons demanded Rs 1 lakh from a businessman Patnana Suresh of Veeraghattam by posing as Maoists. They showed him a video in which they were in uniforms and bearing the weapons. The trio had planned to loot people in the Veeraghattam area posing as Maoists. They purchased two fake guns on an online platform. When the businessman refused to pay, they threatened him with the guns. The businessman raised an alarm following which two of them were nabbed by locals. Police said the gang would usually get country-made revolvers through a person in Odisha. It was found out that there were cases against them at Kotturu police station in Srikakulam, Kasinagar in Odisha for similar incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/two-fake-maoists-held-in-srikakulam/articleshow/79630527.cms||Siva G
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Selecting Amaravati as Andhra Pradesh capital was a hasty decision’||VIJAYAWADA: Selecting Amaravati as capital of Andhra Pradesh was not only a hasty decision but also against the interests of people, senior counsel Dushyant Dave on Tuesday. He was arguing on behalf of the state government in a batch of petitions challenging the twin bills intended for trifurcation of the state capial. Dave told the high court that spending Rs 1 lakh crore on Amaravati is nothing but waste of public money and meting out injustice to other parts of the state. As part of the daily hearing on the petitions challenging the trifurcation of capital, the high court bench comprising Chief Justice J K Maheswari, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and Justice Ninala Jayasurya heard the arguments of the state government on Tuesday. Dave argued that making laws is the exclusive domain of the legislature for which people have elected them. He said everyone should recognise the fact that the legislature will make laws for the welfare of people and the state government also made the legislations in the best interest of the people. He further argued that even the courts should not intervene in the process of law making which is against the fundamental principles of Constitution, adding that the court cannot restrict the government from making laws for trifurcation of capital. The PILs filed before the court are actually private interest litigations filed by those persons having commercial interests, he alleged. “While bringing the legislations, the state government never ignored the interests of farmers. Only those who bought lands at low prices to make a fortune are the ones opposing the decision. Actual farmers will benefit more from the legislations. Spending Rs 1 lakh crore to develop one place is not economically feasible as other areas like Rayalaseema and north Andhra are backward. The state cannot bear that burden given the present state of finances,” Dave argued. He further stated that there is no guarantee that a particular place will get development only by making it capital and cited the example of Gandhi Nagar to buttress his argument. “Gandhi Nagar was made capital of Gujarat. The government spent thousands of crores on its development. However, the people of the state chose Ahmedabad over Gandhi Nagar,” he said. By selecting Amaravati as capital, the previous government made gross injustice to farmers as the lands that were taken from them are among the most fertile lands in the entire country. Though there have been many waste lands in the state where the capital can be established, the previous government took over fertile lands which was not a wise decision, he said. The high court posted the matter for further hearing to Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/selecting-amaravati-as-ap-capital-was-a-hasty-decision/articleshow/79630550.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to get Rs 14.4cr for buying 40 e-buses||Nagpur: The Central government has approved Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s proposal to acquire 40 electric buses under Phase-II of Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric vehicles (FAME). “As a part of subsidy for procuring the e-buses, the civic body has also received Rs3.60 crore (of the Rs14.40 crore) as first instalment,” confirmed a senior official from NMC’s transport department. Earlier, the BJP-ruled NMC had declined to accept 100 electric buses being sponsored by the department of heavy industries and public enterprises, owing to its precarious financial condition. It had instead decided to procure only 40 buses under Phase-II of FAME. As per the MoU with ministry of heavy industries, the central government has offered to provide Rs45 lakh, Rs55 lakh and Rs35 lakh subsidy for each midi, standard and mini bus. However, the civic body has shortlisted midi buses, the official said. For procuring the 40 midi e-buses, NMC has also shortlisted Olectra-BYD, the electric bus manufacturer in Telangana, to operate the electric buses in the city. The midi bus procured from Olectra costs around Rs1.49 crore each. As the civic body has no funds, Olectra offered to operate the buses for NMC. “NMC will pay it Rs66.30 per km as operation cost, which will also include the capital cost of the 40 e-buses. So, NMC can provide the city bus service without investing a penny,” the official said. The first lot of 20 e-buses will join the Aapli Bus fleet in mid-2021. The second instalment of Rs7.20 crore will be released to NMC in April 2021, while the third and final instalment will be released after all 40 e-buses are inducted. The officer said NMC has also identified a depot for electric buses at Khapri. It will develop infrastructure required for the e-buses including 20 charging stations on its own. After 10 years on build and operate basis, the facility will be transferred to NMC. Before lockdown, NMC used to operate almost 370 buses, including five e-buses, and spent around Rs13 crore per month. Of the Rs13 crore, the civic body could generate around Rs6 crore revenue from bus fare, while the viability gap fund was around Rs7 crore. With the induction of 40 e-buses, NMC’s monthly expenditure will increase by almost Rs85 lakh, said the officer. Meanwhile, NMC is all set to induct a sixth electric bus in the Aapli Bus fleet. The bus arrived recently and MahaMetro has approached NMC to provide the bus to it for operating shuttle service between Nagpur airport and Airport South Metro station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-get-rs-14-4cr-for-buying-40-e-buses/articleshow/79631734.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Land registrations to commence after comprehensive survey: CM||Amaravati: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said that registration of lands in ward/village secretariats will commence soon after the completion of a comprehensive resurvey. He asked officials to issue QR code-based smart title cards to land owners after the completion of the survey. The state-wide exercise will begin on December 21. The chief minister reviewed preparations before the launch of the comprehensive resurvey programme under YSR-Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku-Bhu Raksha scheme at his camp office on Tuesday. He said that digital records of land should be prepared in a such a way that no one could tamper with them in future. The CM directed officials to strengthen security features of digital records by roping in experts and said that a hard copy of the land title must be issued to the owner. Jagan asked officials to create public awareness on benefits of the resurvey of land and assets. He said that opposition parties and some sections were making deliberate attempts to sow doubt among people over the scheme. “Such campaigns should be thwarted,” the CM said. He also directed officials to issue land title cards only after the completion of the comprehensive survey. The chief minister said that land title cards must have the property owner’s name with Unique Identity (UID), photo and QR code to make all future transactions safe. He demanded that digital maps be prepared for every village and ward along with the details of title owners. “The survey stones should be fixed after completing the survey error free,” instructed the CM. He added that a digital property register, title register, and a separate register for complaints should be kept ready at secretariats. Chief commissioner of land administration (CCLA) Nirabh Kumar Prasad explained that they were taking up survey of 1.26 lakh square kilometres in villages, towns, forest land under the comprehensive survey programme. Prasad said that all 17,640 villages will be covered in the three-phased survey which would also cover over 3,345 square kilometres in cities and towns including 10 lakh open plots and 40 lakh assessments. According to the CCLA, 2.26 crore acres owned by nearly 90 lakh people will be covered under the programme. Deputy chief minister Dharmana Krishnadas, chief secretary Nilam Sawhney and governor advisor Ajeya Kallam were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/land-registrations-to-commence-after-comprehensive-survey-cm/articleshow/79630610.cms||Samdani MN
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Ch’garh youth’s liver saves 58-yr-old||Nagpur: Life is gradually adapting to a new normal after the peak period of the Covid pandemic and the city received yet another hint of the same on Tuesday. After more than 8 months of total lockdown, the city witnessed its first liver transplant on Tuesday. Remarkably, liver of a 21-year-old from Durg in Chhattisgarh, who met with an accident in Goa, was brought to Nagpur within hours by retrieval team led by Dr Rahul Saxena. Another feat was the superfast Green Corridor which was created from city airport to New Era Hospital. It took less than 4 minutes for the ambulance to cover the nearly 12km distance, as the traffic cops, headed by DCP Sarang Awad, used the newly inaugurated Airport-Ajni double-decker flyover for the corridor. Earlier, green corridors on the same route used to take 6 to 8 minutes. Dr Vibhavari Dani, president of Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC), Nagpur, said 21-year-old Pradyuman from Durg had met with an accident in Goa on December 1. “He was admitted to Goa Medical College with severe head injury. In spite of treatment, his condition deteriorated neurologically, and doctors declared him brain dead on December 7 morning,” she said. Dr Preeti Varghese of State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (SOTTO) Goa counselled Pradyuman’s family and they agreed to donate his both kidneys, heart, liver, pair of lungs. ZTCC secretary and kidney transplant surgeon Dr Sanjay Kolte said a deceased organ alert was sent by SOTTO Goa to Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organization (ROTTO) West. “Within two hours, ROTTO allocated the organs at the state and national level. Nagpur zone received liver and it was allocated as per the guidelines to a wait-listed 58-year-old male patient in New Era Hospital,” said Dr Kolte. ZTCCC’s Veena Wathore coordinated with SOTTO Goa, ROTTO-Mumbai and New Era Hospital. “The retrieval team headed by liver transplant surgeon Dr Rahul Saxena reached Goa on December 7 late in the evening and came back on December 8 at 12.45pm. Liver reached New Era Hospital within 4 minutes from Nagpur airport,” said Wathore. The transplant process was still under way when this report was filed. Dr Saxena, Dr Sahil Bansal, Dr Sneha Khade (anaesthetists), Dr Ashwini Choudhri (transplant coordinator) and team of Lokesh Tarare, Sudhakar Burade, Poonam Dharade, Geeta Bawankar, Archana Navghare, Shailesh Kobragde etc was conducting the transplant. First deceased liver transplant was done in Nagpur zone on April 22 2018. Since then, Nagpur has seen 37 liver transplants and this was 38th. Out of these, New Era Hospital has conducted 27, Wockhardt 2, Alexis Hospital 6, and Meditrina 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chgarh-youths-liver-saves-58-yr-old/articleshow/79631772.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||Jail officials need workshop to understand human needs: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday observed that there could be workshops held for prison authorities to better understand needs of inmates. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik said this while hearing petitions filed by Kabir Kala Manch members, Sagar Gorkhe and Ramesh Gaichor, against their "illegal arrest'' by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Elgar Parishad case. The bench, however, was referring to claims by the family of the duo's co-accused Gautam Navlakha,74, of his spectacles being stolen from Taloja prison. Navlakha's family said on Monday that despite him being "almost blind without them," jail authorities let him call them only after three days and when they sent him a new pair, refused to accept the parcel. "We need to conduct workshops for jailers," said the bench, wondering how "small items" are denied. The court said these were "all human considerations". Gorkhe and Gaichor, through their counsel Mihir Desai, argued that their confessional statement to NIA was "forced". He questioned their custody and the power of the Special NIA court. The agency's counsel Sandesh Patil sought time to respond. The HC posted the matter to December 21, and asked how many accused in the case were 75 or older and observed that it had directed co-accused P Varavara Rao, 81, to be shifted from jail to Nanavati hospital. "Humanity is important,'' the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jail-officials-need-workshop-to-understand-human-needs-bombay-hc/articleshow/79634862.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra reports 551 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 551 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,72,839. The toll increased to 7,042 as four more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. The new fatalities are reported one each from Guntur, Krishna, Nellore and West Godavari. As many as 744 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 5,429 active cases with 8,60,368 cumulative recoveries and 7,042 fatalities. The active cases in Kurnool came down to 79, while there are less than 200 cases in five districts. Other than Krishna (108 cases), the remaining 12 districts posted double-digit cases to the tally on Tuesday. Two districts, Kurnool (3) and Anantapur (8), recorded single-digit case numbers. Krishna is the only district to have more than 1,000 active cases. Nellore district touched the 500 fatality mark on Tuesday. Nine districts have witnessed at least 500 Covid-related casualties, except Kadapa (453), Kurnool (487), Srikakulam (346) and Vizianagaram (237). Chittoor (834) contributed the highest number of deaths. Andhra Pradesh tested 56,187 Covid-19 samples on Tuesday and detected 551 new cases. This translates to a case positivity rate of almost 1%. The overall case positivity has decreased to 8.3%. The national average positivity rate stood at 6.5%. AP’s mortality rate is stable at 0.8%. With the ever declining case numbers, nearly 93% beds remained vacant at the 117 Covid-19 hospitals in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-reports-551-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/79630615.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||More than 1,000 Covid-19 positive patients recovering daily in Dec||Nagpur: For the sixth time in the last eight days of December, Vidarbha has reported more recoveries than new Covid cases, on Tuesday. The difference between new cases (837) and recoveries (1,174) was 340 on December 8. With similar figures being reported in the last 4 days, the region has seen substantial recoveries (8,614) than the total new cases (7,652) in December till date. On an average, December has seen more than 1,000 recoveries per day. This has also increased the recovery rate of Vidarbha. Now, out of Vidarbha’s total 2,34,650 cases; 2,17,460 have defeated Coronavirus for a recovery rate of 92.67%. This recovery rate is still less than state’s average which is 93.42% and national recovery rate, which is nearing 95% now. After reporting highest 35 Covid deaths in the last 42 days a day earlier, the region reported only 16 Covid-19 casualties — equal to the month’s lowest — on Tuesday. Out of them, six came from Nagpur district. However,, only 1 of them was from Nagpur city. Remaining 5 were from Nagpur district (rural) and outstation patients. Chandrapur reported 4 deaths, while Bhandara, Wardha, Gadchiroli, Akola, Amravati and Buldhana reported 1 death each. The Covid toll of Vidarbha has now reached 6,214. Case fatality rate of the region is 2.64%. Tuesday’s 837 cases came from Nagpur 394, Bhandara 80, Chandrapur 71, Wardha 65, Buldhana 46, Yavatmal 37, Gondia 35, Gadchiroli 35, Amravati 33, Akola 28, and Washim 13, while the 1,174 recoveries in the day include Chandrapur 361, Nagpur 345, Gondia 107, Bhandara 96, Wardha 61, Gadchiroli 49, Yavatmal 49, Buldhana 37, Amravati 32, Akola 20, and Washim 17. Chandrapur: The caseload mounted to 20,935 with the detection of 71 new cases. The day also saw 4 deaths taking the toll to 327. In all, 361 patients were discharged from hospital after recovery. The total recoveries now stand at 19,221 while 1,377 active patients are under treatment in the district. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 55-year-old woman from Ner tehsil. Total 428 test reports were received of which 37 were positive. Currently, 300 active patients are undergoing treatment across the district. The caseload has reached 11,786 of whom 11,109 have recovered. Amravati: The death of a 61-year-old man from Sainagar at the Covid hospital took the toll to 384 in the district. While 33 new cases were reported taking the caseload to 18,297, the recoveries were 32. Total 17,422 patients have recovered so far. There 491 active patients under treatment, including 254 in home isolation. Wardha: A 29-year-old man from Hinganghat died during treatment, while 65 new cases were detected. Total 61 patients were discharged. The caseload of district has reached 8,216, recoveries 7,574 and death toll 259. Active positive patients under treatment are 383. The new cases were from Wardha 35, Hinganghat 13, Deoli 7, Arvi 4, Selu, Karanja and Samudrapur 2 each. Bhandara: The district witnessed more recoveries than new Covid cases for the second day in a row. Against 80 new cases, 96 patients recovered. This took total cases in Bhandara to 11,247 and recoveries to 10,334. An under-treatment patient died in the district on Tuesday taking the Covid toll to 265. Now, 648 patients are under treatment. Gondia: Total 35 Coronavirus cases surfaced while 107 patients recovered in the district on Tuesday. No fatality was reported in the day. Total 582 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours which include 220 RT-PCR. Now, the district has 12,880 total cases, 12,195 recoveries and 168 deaths while 517 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported death of a 71-year-old man suffering from Covid-19, on Tuesday. This took Gadchiroli’s Covid toll to 89. Total 35 new cases were reported on Tuesday, while 50 recovered. Now the district has 8,321 total cases, including 7,831 recoveries, and 401 patients under treatment. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is more than 94%. Akola: Total 317 RT-PCR tests and 197 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Tuesday. Total 28 of them tested positive. This took the number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 9,705. On the other hand, 20 patients got discharge from various hospitals taking the number of recovered patients to 8,749. A 61-year-old man, who was admitted in a private Covid hospital from November 25, died on Tuesday taking the district’s Covid toll to 301. Now, 655 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: About 500 test reports were received in the district, out of which 46 were Covid positive. Now, the total cases of Covid-19 in the district are 11,658. Death of a 64-year-old woman was also reported on Tuesday. This took Covid toll to 140. On recovery front, 37 patients got discharge on Tuesday taking the total number of recoveries to 11,206. Now, 312 patients are under treatment. Washim: Once again, 13 new Covid cases were reported on Tuesday. Washim district reported lowest number of Covid-19 cases in the day among all 11 districts of Vidarbha. Total 17 patients got discharge after recovery and no death was reported. The district now has 6,290 total cases — lowest in Vidarbha; 5,957 recoveries and 148 deaths. Total 185 patients are under treatment here. This number is also lowest in all 11 districts of the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-than-1000-covid-19-positive-patients-recovering-daily-in-dec/articleshow/79631782.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 9, 2020||Business||Pawan Hans selloff gets a boost again||NEW DELHI: The government has yet again started the process to divest Pawan Hans after several unsuccessful attempts in the past. The government and ONGC, which have 51% and 49% stake in the 42-chopper PSU, respectively, have offered to sale their entire stake, according to the preliminary information memorandum issued by the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) on Tuesday. “The successful bidder, as identified by the government for sale of its 51% stake in Pawan Hans, will also have the option to buy ONGC stake of 49%,” the memorandum said. Expressions of interest (EoIs) have to be submitted by January 19, 2021, and shortlisted bidders will be intimated on February 17. Companies bidding for Pawan Hans must have a net worth of at least Rs 300 crore. SBI Caps is the transaction adviser for this divestment. As on March 31, 2019, Pawan Hans has contingent liabilities related to tax and statutory dues of Rs 577 crore. Its authorised capital as on March 31, 2020, is Rs 560 crore. This PSU provides air transport services for ONGC’s exploration activities and helicopter transportation services in the northeast. A successful bidder will not be able to retrench any permanent employee for a year from taking over. After a year, they could offer VRS. Watch Government yet again starts process to divest Pawan Hans after several unsuccessful attempts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pawan-hans-selloff-gets-a-boost-again/articleshow/79634861.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Civic body’s drive against illegal structures continues||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), which initiated a drive against illegal structures in Vizag around a month ago. Since then, the civic body has been pulling down at least a few structures on a daily basis. The civic body demolished tens of unauthorised floors, sheds and staircases in the last few days. The GVMC also took action against several buildings, which were constructed by damaging the seafront and violating the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) rules, in the last 10 days. GVMC commissioner G Srijana said that the civic body would initiate stringent action against those who encroach upon the open spaces, water bodies, parking places, master plan roads and construct illegal structures. “Additional floors or other structures constructed without obtaining any permission from the civic body would also be subject to action,” said Srijana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/civic-bodys-drive-against-illegal-structures-continues/articleshow/79630627.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fake currency seized in Vizag, 4 arrested||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city police on Tuesday arrested four people for trying to exchange fake Euro currency of one million face value for Indian currency at a hotel near Diamond Park. The accused have been identified as D Durga Prasad, G Giri Charan, G Durga Prasad and G Srinivas. Police said that the accused struck a deal with another where they wanted only Rs 1 crore for currency valued at Rs 8.4 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fake-currency-seized-in-vizag-4-arrested/articleshow/79630645.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Need rapid expansion of high-speed tech: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Lauding the telecom industry for keeping the country connected during lockdown and corona restrictions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke about the need for rapid expansion of high-speed digital and mobile technology — including 5G — while also making a case for sustainable growth by managing the pile-up of electronic waste responsibly. Giving the inaugural address at the India Mobile Congress, held digitally due to safety restrictions around coronavirus, Modi said that telecom and digital services have kept India moving despite fears and lockdowns around the virus. “It is due to your innovation and efforts that the world was functional despite the pandemic,” he said, while addressing the captains of the telecom industry, as he pointed out that India had the widest digital spread and strong mobile app ecosystem despite having the lowest tariffs in the world. “We are embarking on a plan to ensure that over the next three years, every village will have high speed fibre-optic connectivity… We are keen to ensure greater spread of fixed line broadband connectivity and public Wi-Fi hotspots.” He said 5G will play a critical role here. “… this is just the beginning. The future holds great potential with the rapid technology progress. We need to work together to ensure a timely rollout of 5G to leapfrog into the future and empower millions of Indians.” The Prime Minister also said that while mobile manufacturing is growing in India, the country needs to focus on sustainability. “Due to technological upgradation, we have a culture of replacing handsets and gadgets frequently. Can the industry form a task-force to think of better ways of handling the electronic waste and create a circular economy.” He said that the country is now building on the success achieved in mobile manufacturing. “India is emerging as one of the most preferred destinations for mobile manufacturing. We have also come up with the production-linked incentive scheme to promote telecom equipment manufacturing in India. Let us work together to make India a global hub for telecom equipment, design, development and manufacturing.” Telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that the government has utilised digital channels for empowering the masses and ensuring transparency in welfare benefits. “We sent Rs 13 lakh crore, or close to $175 billion, in the last five-and-a-half years through these digital instruments directly to the bank account of the poor, and we have saved close to Rs 1.78 lakh crore through this,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/need-rapid-expansion-of-high-speed-tech-pm-modi/articleshow/79634868.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Granting Showik bail, judge cited Rhea Charaborty case and apex court ruling||MUMBAI: In the detailed order granting bail to actor Rhea Charaborty's brother, Showik, last week the special NDPS court relied on the Bombay high court order giving Rhea bail on October 7. In that order, on the point of applicability of Section 27A, the court had held that allegations against Rhea that she spent money in procuring drugs for Rajput did not mean she had financed illicit traffic. It further held that simply providing money for a particular transaction or other transactions would not be financing of that activity. "Financing will have to be interpreted to mean to provide funds for either making that particular activity operational or for sustaining it. It is the financial support which directly or indirectly is the cause of existence of such illicit traffic. The word 'financing' would necessarily refer to some activities involving illegal trade or business," the high court said. Showik was arrested by the NCB on September 4 in the drugs case that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is investigating in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. He was accused of procuring ganja for Rajput, who was in a relationship with Rhea. The special NDPS court said investigations had revealed Showik was not concerned with the seizure of "commercial quantity" of LSD from co-accused Anuj Keshwani. "The seizure of contraband from accused Anuj Keshwani is an independent recovery," the court said. It also pointed out that as stated by the prosecution, no drugs were recovered from Showik. The court observed that Showik was arrested only on the basis of the statements of the co-accused and his own statement. While considering Showik's bail plea, the judge referred to the Supreme Court ruling of October 29 in which it had held that statements made to NCB officers cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an offence or to convict an accused under the NDPS Act. "The ratio laid down in the above ruling is squarely applicable to the case in hand because the applicant is arrested on the basis of confessional statement of co-accused and his statement. Further... the investigation in respect of the applicant is completed," the court said. The court also considered Showik's age, the fact that he was a student and had no criminal antecedents. "The applicant is a permanent resident of the given address and he is ready to abide by the conditions, if any, imposed by the court. Further, his co-accused have been released on bail. Hence, in view of the facts and circumstance of the case, I find that applicant is entitled for bail," the judge said. On September 11, the court had rejected his first bail plea. Almost a month later, the high court, too, rejected his plea. In November, he again sought bail from the NDPS court. During the arguments, his lawyers, Ayaz Khan and Abad Ponda, cited the recent Supreme Court ruling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/granting-showik-bail-judge-cited-rhea-charaborty-case-and-apex-court-ruling/articleshow/79634869.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 9, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: All bodies recovered in drowning case||TIRUPATI: Two of the three people who were washed away in a local stream near Gajulamandyam on Monday night were found dead on Tuesday morning. Three people of Kallur village in Chittoor district were returning home on foot on Monday evening when they accidentally fell into the Cheemalavanka Vagu stream in Vadamalpeta mandal. Police retrieved the body of Yashoda on Monday.On Tuesday morning, NDRF teams fished out bodies of Gangaiah and Sujatha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-bodies-recovered-in-drowning-case/articleshow/79630660.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
December 9, 2020||Business||Net equity funds outflow hits record Rs 13,000 crore in November||MUMBAI: A strong stock market in November prompted mutual fund (MF) investors to book profit in equity funds and move to shorter duration debt funds — a sign of risk-mitigating behaviour. As a result, investors took Rs 12,917 crore off equity funds on a net basis, the highest monthly figure ever, data from industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed. The investors’ risk-aversion moves took a toll on systematic investment plans (SIPs) too with November’s flow through this route dipping to Rs 7,302 crore — the lowest monthly inflow figure since April 2018. With debt fund inflows more than covering the outflows from equity route, the MF industry’s assets under management (AUM) touched an all-time high at Rs 30 lakh crore, latest Amfi data showed. During November, equity funds recorded a net outflow of Rs 12,917 crore with large-caps witnessing Rs 3,289-crore net redemption, followed by Rs 2,842 crore from multi-caps, Rs 1,323 crore from value & contra funds, and Rs 1,317 crore from mid-cap funds. In comparison, debt funds recorded a net inflow of nearly Rs 45,000 crore, with low-duration funds seeing a net purchase of Rs 27,108 crore and leading the table. This was followed by nearly Rs 13,100-crore net inflow into short-durations and almost Rs 11,100 crore into corporate bond funds. However, overnight and liquid funds witnessed strong outflows at Rs 15,548 crore and Rs 8,415 crore, respectively. The Rs 7,302-crore SIP figure for last month was lower than Rs 7,800 crore seen in October (see top of the page). The last time monthly SIP flows were this low was Rs 6,690 crore in April 2018, Amfi data showed. According to Union MF CEO G Pradeepkumar, since the last three days of November were non-business days, a significant amount of SIP flows might not be reflected in the official numbers that have been released. The MF industry veteran feels that overall SIP numbers are robust and is a good indication of continued retail interest in mutual funds. The other positive SIP data was that during the month, total SIP folios grew by 3.4 lakh to 3.4 crore folios, Amfi CEO N S Venkatesh pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/net-equity-funds-outflow-hits-record-rs-13000-crore-in-november/articleshow/79634874.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Business||Cutting debt biggest task for new CCD CEO Hegde||BENGALURU: Malavika Hegde, the new CEO of Coffee Day Enterprises, will have her task cut out as she steps into the shoes of her deceased husband. That would include reducing debt, managing the lenders, and ensuring continuity of operations. People who have worked with Hegde say she is a straight talker, someone who acknowledges the perils the company is in, and wants to clear the mess for the sake of her two sons. “She wants to keep the business running in this extremely difficult environment and make sure that the lenders are paid by selling the non-core businesses,” a person said. Hegde has been a director at CDEL, but now she will have to get into the daily operations. Her biggest task would be to reduce the huge debt, which stood at Rs 3,200 crore at the end of July. That will help the business stay afloat. The company is trying to reduce debt to below Rs 1,000 crore. That level of debt is seen to be manageable as the sector emerges out of the pandemic. The pandemic had put huge pressure on the company’s cafe and vending machine businesses. CDEL was not available for comment on this story. The route to reduce the debt involves a payment of Rs 500-700 crore from private equity giant Blackstone as the final payment from the sale of Tanglin Realty, which owned the Global Tech Village on the outskirts of Bengaluru. The company’s decision to sell its vending machines unit to the Tatas has hit a roadblock on account of the pandemic. The deal is pegged at about Rs 600 crore, and could have been valued more if the machines were active. As of now, most are not because many employees continue to work from home. As of September 30, 47% of its 49,547 machines were active, as per the company's regulatory filings. Siddhartha's family members were never involved in the business operations previously. But they are now intent on saving the business and the brand, considering the employment it provides and the people who are hoping the money they had lent would be paid back.. The group still employs 25,000 people directly and indirectly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cutting-debt-biggest-task-for-new-ccd-ceo-hegde/articleshow/79634877.cms||Avik Das
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Life for man who killed lover, chopped up body||MUMBAI: Seven years after a 35-year-old widowed mother's body parts were found dumped across the city, a sessions court on Tuesday convicted and sentenced her estranged partner to life imprisonment. Prabhakar Shetty (35), then a manager of a restaurant at Chembur Gymkhana, had murdered Kanta Shetty as she insisted on marriage while he was looking for other alliances. Principal judge S B Agrawal also fined Prabhakar more than Rs 1.10 lakh. Out of the amount, Rs 1 lakh is to be paid to the victim's son, who was nine at the time of her murder. Chief public prosecutor J V Desai said that the child was one of 25 prosecution witnesses. The child had told court that his mother, on the night of October 29, 2013, told him she was to meet the accused. The victim traveled from her Saki Naka residence to Prabhakar's staff quarters in Chembur. On November 5, 2013, Prabhakar was arrested by Chembur police for murder and destruction of evidence. He was arrested on the basis of a description by those who saw him dumping what was later found to be the victim's torso, and statements of her family. Police accused Prabhakar of strangling Kanta at his quarters on the night of October 29, 2013. He allegedly chopped her body with a knife in the bathroom, stuffed the head in a plastic bag, the torso in another and limbs in a third. Each bag was dumped at different spots that night. As she did not return home for few days, Kanta's sister lodged a missing complaint. Kanta and Prabhakar were in a relationship for few years after her husband had died by suicide. The prosecution said among the witnesses were two teenagers who met Prabhakar when he went to Cherai Lake at Chembur to dump the torso. They told the court that after Prabhakar left, finding the bag to be suspicious, they fished it. When they tried to open it, patrolling cops arrived and found the torso. The prosecution said other parts were found subsequently. With the help of DNA evidence, Kanta was identified. Based on Prabhakar's description given by the witnesses and Kanta's family statement, he was booked. An autorickshaw driver who had ferried Prabhakar to the spot also deposed during the trial. All the witnesses had also identified him in court. Desai said the prosecution's case was based on circumstantial evidence. A person who saw Kanta going to Prabhakar's room also deposed. The prosecution said the knife was recovered and blood stains were on articles in Prabhakar's room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-life-for-man-who-killed-lover-chopped-up-body/articleshow/79634879.cms||Rebecca Samervel
December 9, 2020||Business||US court stays Wipro bias case||BENGALURU: A New Jersey federal judge has stayed a proposed class-action suit filed against Wipro by five of its former employees that alleged employment discrimination against individuals who are not South Asian. The court also denied Wipro’s motion to dismiss and said that this matter be stayed pending the decision in another case involving Philips and Wipro that’s pending before a US district court in Texas. Former Wipro employees Gregory MacLean, Rick Valles, Ardeshir Pezeshki, James Gibbs, and Ronald Hemenway has accused Wipro of discriminating against non-South Asians in hiring, promotion and termination decisions. They have sought compensatory and punitive damages. When TOI contacted Wipro, the company said it does not comment on pending litigation. MacLean said while he was on the bench, he had actively sought a new position within Wipro. He said an HR employee had sent him a list of open positions, one of which was located in San Diego, close to his home. MacLean alleged that when he expressed interest in that position, the employee said the position had already been filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/us-court-stays-wipro-bias-case/articleshow/79634880.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||Traffic e-challan yet to be settled? Now, pay it in cash in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Appalled at the high number of unpaid challans for traffic offences, the state approved payment of penalties in cash in Mumbai from Tuesday. The approval comes with conditions - for instance, cash fines are only to be handed over to an officer and not a constable. For four years until now, payment of fines in cash was not allowed. The number of unpaid challans in state, till last month, amounts to Rs 602 crore. Over 46% of it (Rs 280 crore) are dues from Mumbai. The Mumbai Traffic Police were the first in the state to adopt the e-challan system in 2016. About 5,000 cameras live stream footage to the traffic police control room where cops scan them for violators. An e-challan is sent to the violator's mobile number based on his vehicle records. The system was made cashless as the department was stung too often in the past with complaints of constables demanding bribes. However, unpaid challans started to pile up. Issuing of e-challans in other parts of the state began in 2019, but the police retained the cash payment option for rural areas where using debit and credit cards has not caught up. "Where payment of cash fines was allowed, recovery of e-challans was faster. Thane allowed cash payments last year but Mumbai and Pune were still following the cashless approach," said superintendent (highway police) Sunita Salunkhe. With Mumbai being given the nod to accept cash fines by the additional chief secretary, Pune too is likely to be next. But the state wants to minimise contact between motorists and the constabulary. Cash fines can be paid to an officer (sub-inspector rank and above) on the spot or at traffic chowkies. The online payment option still exists. Once the city unlocks fully, cops will pursue offenders with unpaid challans more closely. "We intend to use an app that will screen vehicles at toll nakas and alert if a vehicle has unpaid challans. Our personnel can then ask motorists to pay up," said BK Upadhyaya, additional director general, traffic. A set-up operated by cops, will also come up to make calls to those who haven't paid up challans. The police would still need to tackle the issue of incorrect challans. Bandra resident Kapil Amberkar told TOI about a car owned by his kin being issued a challan when the photo (attached with the challan as evidence) is that of a scooter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/traffic-e-challan-yet-to-be-settled-now-pay-it-in-cash-in-mumbai/articleshow/79634882.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 9, 2020||Surat||Court in Surat orders release of passport of cheating accused for renewal||SURAT: The district and session court in Surat on Tuesday allowed application of a cheating accused seeking release of his passport deposited with the police for the purpose of renewal. The accused Vasant Tailor (61) has been directed to get the passport renewed with in a month and deposit it again with the investigating officer. According to case details, Tailor, a retired bank employee, was booked for cheating, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy in a case registered at Chowk Bazar Police Station in Surat city in 2011. He was released on bail in 2012 and has been out on bail since. One of the bail conditions was to deposit his passport with the police. In 2019, during pendency of the case, Tailor requested for release of his passport to go to US to meet his son, which the court allowed and asked him to deposit Rs 1 lakh as security. But because of ill health, Tailor, who is also suffering from cancer, could not go to the US. So he again deposited his original passport on March 12 this year with the Chowk Bazar police station. Last month, Tailor filed a plea seeking release of his passport for renewal as it expired on December 6. “Considering the fact that the applicant/ accused is in need of his passport for renewal for a limited period, it is desirable to exercise discretion in favour of the applicant and plea be allowed,” the stated while allowing Tailor’s plea. The Court said that Tailor shall use the passport only for renewal purpose and has to deposit the renewed original passport with the police by January 8, 2021. In case Tailor failed to do so, his Rs 1 lakh deposit will be forfeited with immediate effect, and he will be arrested for breach of bail condition, the court stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/court-orders-release-of-passport-of-cheating-accused-for-renewal/articleshow/79630862.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Vadodara||Graft-accused VMC officer sent to jail||VADODARA: Land acquisition officer of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) Mahesh Parnami was arrested late on Monday night on charges of holding disproportionate assets worth Rs 70 lakh, was sent to Vadodara Central Jail on Tuesday. Parnami was produced before a special ACB court on Tuesday as the anti-graft agency sought his custody for five days. However, the court turned down ACB’s request and sent Parnami to judicial custody. An offence of disproportionate assets had been registered against him. Meanwhile, it has also transpired that the civic body had given a complaint to city police too in June to investigate charges of cheating and forgery against him and lodge an FIR. The complaint was later transferred to Sama police station from police bhawan. Cops have hardly made any progress in connection with that complaint, sources said. Sources close to the VMC said that the allegations in the complaint are regarding financial loss civic body faced in acquisition of land in Sama area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/graft-accused-vmc-officer-sent-to-jail/articleshow/79630349.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Nagpur||Mayor Sandip Joshi, family test +ve for corona||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Thursday tweeted that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and requested everyone who came in contact with him in the last couple of days to isolate themselves and get tested if they report any symptoms. The mayor is admitted to a private hospital in Dhantoli. Joshi’s wife and daughter too have tested positive. Their symptoms are relatively mild and hence only home isolation has been advised. In a tweet, Joshi informed “after fighting Covid for the last 8 months, the virus has finally infected me. My friends, I have tested positive yesterday for corona. I am taking treatment under medical guidelines. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get tested. Please stay safe”. Though Joshi was not available for comment, family sources told TOI that he was running fever following which he got himself tested. Soon after his reports came, his wife, daughter and mother too underwent tests. His mother’s results were negative. In the past, the mayor had gone in for home quarantine twice. Once he had fever, while the second time he came in contact with health committee chairman Virendra Kukreja who had then tested positive. Both the times, he tested negative for the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mayor-sandip-joshi-family-test-ve-for-corona/articleshow/79660889.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 9, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: At 7, Mumbai deaths hit 221-day low, see 2nd sub-10 count of month||MUMBAI: The city on Tuesday registered seven Covid-19 deaths, the lowest fatality update in 221 days. The last time there were fewer than seven deaths was on May 1, when the number was five. It was the second time in the month when the death count in a day dropped under 10 - there were nine deaths on December 1. The death toll now stands at 10,914 in the city. In the state, positive cases and deaths saw a marginal rise after witnessing a decreasing trend over four days. The state recorded 4,026 new cases and 53 deaths, taking the caseload to 18,59,367 and toll to 47,827. The city reported 585 new cases, taking the total to 2,87,182. Active cases continued to decline in both the state and the city. Minister for public health Rajesh Tope expressed his hopes about vaccines. He said that a total of five companies were working on the Covid-19 vaccine, of which two were government-run and three were private partners. "I spoke to Adar Poonawalla of Serum Institute of India and discussed the vaccine timeline," he said. SII has recently sought emergency use authorisation for 'Covishield', the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that it will be manufacturing. A state official said that even if the vaccine arrived in the next few weeks, it would be months before the general public starts getting it. The Centre plans to vaccinate healthcare workers first, followed by over two crore frontline workers. "People must keep their guard up. Over 80% of deaths in the state have been among people over 50 years of age," the official said. Of the seven deaths in the city, six were of persons ove 60 years old, while four had co-morbidities. Of the 53 deaths in the state, Pune circle recorded 20 and Nagpur 12. Mumbai circle reported the most cases at 1,212, while Nashik circle had 822 cases and Pune had 749.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-at-7-mumbai-deaths-hit-221-day-low-see-2nd-sub-10-count-of-month/articleshow/79634884.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Denial of community spread hampered testing, says experts||BENGALURU: Testing only people — and their contacts — who had travel history to Covid-19-affected countries in the initial months of the pandemic allowed the virus to spread, according to a report. The report titled ‘Covid-19 in India - models, mysteries, myths, miracles, mistakes and moving forward’, prepared by three prominent researchers, suggests the virus may have spread through potentially infected people who went untested in the initial days. The study, which tracks the country’s pandemic management over the past 10 months, is coauthored by Dr Giridhara R Babu, professor, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru; Gautam I Menon, professor, physics and biology, Ashoka University, Sonepat and Dr Bhramar Mukherjee, professor and chair, biostatistics who also teaches at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, USA. It says the Centre's repeated denials on community spread only caused damage. “This meant testing was, in the initial months, restricted only to international travellers returning from Covid-19-affected countries and their contacts and not anyone who reported symptoms of Covid,” the report states. Menon told TOI several potential carriers could have slipped under the radar because of the flawed testing policy. Not tested, isolated“The government's denial posed a problem until ICMR said anyone with influenzalike-illness or severe acute respiratory infection could be tested for Covid,” Menon said. “Until April, possible carriers were not isolated.” Dr Babu said the overall response to the pandemic would have been much better had the government been open about community transmission. “Still, the Indian government did well compared to the US and UK, although those countries are ranked better in pandemic preparedness,” said Dr Babu. The report highlights many aspects of the fight against the virus, detailing how authorities ramped up testing from 300 tests a day to more than a million. It also looks at the comparatively lower death rate per million in India, as against other countries. As on November 29, India had 99 deaths per million, whereas UK had 840, Brazil 806, US 790 and Germany186. The report suggests several possible reasons for the low fatality rate such as a relatively younger population, compulsory child vaccination and a stronger immune system. “But there is no strong evidence to prove any of these,” said Menon. The authors say any perceived innate advantage to the South Asian population is illusory and arises from inaccurate counting of deaths. “There is evidence that medical certification of the cause of death, limited even before the pandemic, led to many deaths being misclassified,” the report states. The authors say a better measure of mortality could have been obtained by estimating the excess deaths when compared to general mortality in non-Covid years and comprehensive historical death data where available. Pointing out that medical certification of death is necessary to establish cause, Dr Babu said, “That does not mean there is misclassification of Covid deaths only. This could be true of other deaths attributed falsely to Covid. It can cut both ways. The report is a commentary based on our inferences. It will be published soon in a journal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-denial-of-community-spread-hampered-testing-says-experts/articleshow/79634925.cms||Sunitha Rao R
December 9, 2020||Chennai||20% job quota: Tamil medium in both school, college a must||CHENNAI: Students who had completed their school and college education in Tamil medium will get preference in government jobs as TN has amended the Act providing 20% reservation to Tamil medium candidates in direct recruitment to government services. As per the amendment, the candidate should have completed his/her studies in Tamil medium up to the educational qualification prescribed for recruitment. Till now, it was sufficient if the candidate had completed the basic educational qualification for jobs in Tamil medium. The bill passsed to amend the TN appointment on preferential basis in services under the state for persons studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010, in March this year, was published in the gazette on Tuesday after getting the governor's nod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/20-job-quota-tamil-medium-in-both-school-college-a-must/articleshow/79634957.cms||---
December 9, 2020||World||Covid-19: Indian couple among those to get Pfizer vaccine||LONDON: An 87-year-old man and his 83-year-old wife from the north east of England on Tuesday became the first Indian-origin couple in the world to get a vaccine against Covid-19, after they got injected with their first of two doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech jab at a hospital in Newcastle. Dr Hari Shukla, a race relations campaigner based in Tyne and Wear, had been contacted by the National Health Service (NHS) based on the criteria set for the world's first vaccine to receive regulatory approvals in the UK last week. His wife, Ranjan, then volunteered for the jab as she also falls within the first phase of people aged 80 and over, care home workers as well as NHS workers at high risk eligible to receive the "life-saving jab". "Hari Shukla and his wife Ranjan have become the first two patients at Newcastle Hospitals – and two of the first people in the world – to receive the Covid-19 vaccine," Newcastle Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust said. They join 90-year-old Margaret "Maggie" Keenan from Coventry as the very first in the world to receive her shot, followed by 81-year-old William Shakespeare in Warwickshire as the second. "I'm so pleased we are hopefully coming towards the end of this pandemic and I am delighted to be doing my bit by having the vaccine, I feel it is my duty to do so and do whatever I can to help," said Shukla, who was born in Kenya and whose father hailed from Mumbai. "Having been in contact with the NHS [National Health Service], I know how hard they all work and the greatest respect for them – they have a heart of gold and I am grateful for everything they have done to keep us safe during the pandemic," he said. Shukla, who has been honoured with an MBE, OBE and CBE for his work as the Director of the Tyne and Wear Race Equality Council over the years, was notified by the NHS based on the criteria set by the UK's Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation as part of a phased rollout plan based on those at the highest risk of death from the deadly virus. "Today marks a huge step forward in the UK's fight against coronavirus, as we begin delivering the vaccine to the first patients across the whole country. I am immensely proud of the scientists who developed the vaccine, members of the public who took part in trials, and the NHS who have worked tirelessly to prepare for rollout,” said British Prime Minister Prime Johnson. However, he struck a note of caution to warn that mass vaccination will take time and urged the public to remain "clear-eyed" and continue to follow the lockdown rules over the winter months ahead. The NHS said it is undertaking the biggest and most highly anticipated immunisation campaign in history at 50 hospital hubs, with more starting vaccinations over the coming weeks and months as the programme ramps up after the first set of doses arrived from Pfizer's manufacturing site in Belgium. "We will look back on today, V-day, as a key moment in our fight back against this terrible disease, and I am proud our health services across the United Kingdom are about to embark on our largest ever vaccination programme,” said Health Secretary Matt Hancock, who got teary eyed during television interviews on Tuesday as he declared he felt "proud to be British". Since the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine got the green light from the UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) last week, the NHS said its workers have been working around the clock to manage the large-scale logistical challenge of deploying the vaccine. "Coronavirus is the greatest health challenge in NHS history, taking loved ones from us and disrupting every part of our lives," said Sir Simon Stevens, NHS Chief Executive. "The deployment of this vaccine marks a decisive turning point in the battle with the pandemic. NHS vaccination programmes which have successfully helped overcome tuberculosis, polio, and smallpox, now turn their focus to coronavirus. NHS staff are proud to be leading the way as the first health service in the world to begin vaccination with this Covid jab," he said. The MHRA has stressed that the vaccine has been cleared for mass rollout only after "rigorous" safety tests despite the process being speeded up due to the urgency of finding an effective vaccine against a pandemic which has wreaked havoc around the world. NHS national medical director, Professor Stephen Powis, has warned that the roll out of a vaccine will be a "marathon" not a sprint. The Pfizer vaccine needs to be stored at -70C before being thawed out and can only be moved four times within that cold chain before being used. General Practitioners (GPs) and other primary care staff have also been put on standby to start delivering the jab on a phased basis. Vaccination centres treating large numbers of patients in sporting venues and conference centres will subsequently start up when further supplies of vaccine come on stream, with a bulk of the rollout expected in the early part of the New Year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/covid-19-indian-couple-among-those-to-get-vaccinated/articleshow/79634956.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru's bus priority lane on Outer Ring Road hits pandemic hurdle||BENGALURU: The pandemic has delayed a full-fledged roll out of Bengaluru’s bus priority lane project, while the proposal to extend the concept to 12 high-density corridors has also been relegated to the back burner. Although a pilot between Silk Board and KR Puram on Outer Ring Road was launched in November last year, the inauguration of a dedicated operation was delayed due to the nationwide lockdown induced by the pandemic. However, officials say most of the work, like installation of bollards, is now complete. Under the project, the left lane is reserved for BMTC buses and emergency vehicles like ambulances. BBMP along with DULT, BMTC and traffic police had installed bollards between Lowry Junction near KR Puram and Silk Board, but private vehicles continue to stray into the lane and there is neither traffic police nor BBMP marshals to enforce lane discipline. “We have completed all work including installation of bollards, entry and exit points and signage,” a senior BBMP official said. “Only installation of cameras is pending. It’s not feasible to deploy marshals to impose fines so we are planning contactless enforcement. The project will be launched soon.” However, the number of office goers travelling by BMTC buses has reduced due to the work-from-home option. The number of AC buses was also cut, thanks to poor patronage arising from virus fears. However, authorities expect offices to open in the months ahead and an increase in traffic is expected. Last year, a survey conducted by BMTC revealed that the speed of buses and ridership had improved during the pilot run. While journey time reduced by an average 16 minutes during peak hours, the drive also added 12,000 more people to buses. “The dedicated bus lane helped increase the frequency of buses,” a BMTC official said. “The increase in speed will also encourage people to shift from private vehicles to public transport. The average speed of buses during peak hours in the city is less than 10kmph because of congestion.” Rules stipulate a fine of Rs 500 for the first offence and Rs 1,000 for subsequent violations, but KR Puram, HAL, HSR Layout and Madiwala traffic police rarely impose fines on violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengalurus-bus-priority-lane-on-outer-ring-road-hits-pandemic-hurdle/articleshow/79634962.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Zero casualties, active tally at 1,309 after 159 new cases||PANAJI: Goa witnessed zero Covid-19 casualties on Tuesday after three deaths reported a day earlier. As many as 159 people tested positive for the virus and 146 recovered pushing the count of active cases to 1,309. With 2,142 tests conducted during the day, the state’s positivity rate was 7%, a point higher than on Monday when new infections dropped below 100 for a day. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar has stated that Goa will continue to report daily 100 to 150 cases for a few more days even as there has been a steady decline in infections across the state. Four to five centres that continue to detect new cases with regularity, have also experienced a drop in cases. In North Goa, the two centres of Panaji and Porvorim have slightly high numbers, though below 100, and in South Goa, Margao and Ponda have more cases. At most centres, the new infections have drastically reduced and centres such as Mayem and Cansarvanem in North Goa have six and eight cases each. In North Goa, Sanguem centre had just six cases on Tuesday, and even Balli, which saw a high number of cases in July-August, has the situation under control. It’s tally dropped to 18 and that of Shiroda to 16 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zero-casualties-active-tally-at-1309-after-159-new-cases/articleshow/79632530.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Salem||Parties miffed over SC nod for Salem-Chennai expressway||CHENNAI: The DMK and the PMK have expressed disappointment over the Supreme Court verdict that has come in favour of the 10,000 crore Salem - Chennai expressway project. They urged the state government to drop the project. In a statement DMK president M K Stalin said the SC verdict, in favour of the expressway, has come on a day when farmers are holding protests to safeguard their livelihood. It is disappointing to both farmers as well as environmental activists. "The failure of the AIADMK government to put forth its views strongly to protect the livelihood of farmers and the determination with which the Centre argued about implementing the project are the two main reasons for such a verdict," Stalin said. "The two parties, which are together, in working against the interests of the farmers in the name of development may have succeeded in their plans in the Supreme Court. But the people's court is sure to give them a fitting verdict," Stalin said. "The farmers, who opposed the project, were subjected brutal police atrocities for the sake of the rulers' gain from implementing the expressway. Will chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at least now come out in support of the farmers," Stalin asked. Reminding the CM that he cannot escape responsibility by stating it is a project being implemented by the Centre, Stalin asked Palaniswami to drop the project. Expressing disappointment over the verdict, PMK youth wing president Anbumani Ramadoss, who was one of the petitioners against the project, urged the state to withdraw the project. Since there are two national highways connecting Chennai and Salem cities via Ulundurpet and Vellore-Krishnagiri and a third NH being laid via Tindivanam-Krishnagiri, the fourth road project connecting the two cities is unnecessary. "This was the stand of our party," Anbumani said in a statement. PMK is an ally of BJP-AIADMK in TN. More than 10,000 families of farmers would lose their livelihood as the state would acquire around 7,000 acres of land for the 2,77.3km road project, he said. Meanwhile in Salem, farmers vowed to continue to protest. "Farmers in Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai and Kancheepuram will continue to protest until the project is withdrawn. We will not allow the project to be implemented," P Mohanasundaram, a farmer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/parties-miffed-over-sc-nod-for-salem-chennai-expressway/articleshow/79634985.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Parties miffed over SC nod for Salem-Chennai expressway||CHENNAI: The DMK and the PMK have expressed disappointment over the Supreme Court verdict that has come in favour of the 10,000 crore Salem - Chennai expressway project. They urged the state government to drop the project. In a statement DMK president M K Stalin said the SC verdict, in favour of the expressway, has come on a day when farmers are holding protests to safeguard their livelihood. It is disappointing to both farmers as well as environmental activists. "The failure of the AIADMK government to put forth its views strongly to protect the livelihood of farmers and the determination with which the Centre argued about implementing the project are the two main reasons for such a verdict," Stalin said. "The two parties, which are together, in working against the interests of the farmers in the name of development may have succeeded in their plans in the Supreme Court. But the people's court is sure to give them a fitting verdict," Stalin said. "The farmers, who opposed the project, were subjected brutal police atrocities for the sake of the rulers' gain from implementing the expressway. Will chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami at least now come out in support of the farmers," Stalin asked. Reminding the CM that he cannot escape responsibility by stating it is a project being implemented by the Centre, Stalin asked Palaniswami to drop the project. Expressing disappointment over the verdict, PMK youth wing president Anbumani Ramadoss, who was one of the petitioners against the project, urged the state to withdraw the project. Since there are two national highways connecting Chennai and Salem cities via Ulundurpet and Vellore-Krishnagiri and a third NH being laid via Tindivanam-Krishnagiri, the fourth road project connecting the two cities is unnecessary. "This was the stand of our party," Anbumani said in a statement. PMK is an ally of BJP-AIADMK in TN. More than 10,000 families of farmers would lose their livelihood as the state would acquire around 7,000 acres of land for the 2,77.3km road project, he said. Meanwhile in Salem, farmers vowed to continue to protest. "Farmers in Salem, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai and Kancheepuram will continue to protest until the project is withdrawn. We will not allow the project to be implemented," P Mohanasundaram, a farmer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/parties-miffed-over-sc-nod-for-salem-chennai-expressway/articleshow/79634974.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Teacher tests +ve for Covid, Usgao school stops classes||PONDA: In a first such case, after the government allowed physical classes to be held for Class X and XII students since the pandemic, a school in Usgao decided to discontinue the classes as a teacher tested Covid positive. The school has 24 students studying in Class X, for whom the classes were being held. These students have been asked to stay in home isolation for ten days. The infected teacher used to travel to work with five other teachers and these teachers have been asked to get themselves tested for Covid. The Ponda Covid Hospital has, however, instructed these teachers to wait for five days to get them tested, school officials said. The female teacher tested positive on Sunday and, after discussing the situation with the Ponda additional district education inspector (ADEI), the school authorities decided to discontinue physical classes from December 8, chairman of the school management committee told TOI. He said no classes will take place till Saturday. “Further decision on resuming classes will be taken after the test reports of her colleague teachers come in”, the school authorities said. The infected teacher began getting fever and therefore had to get herself tested, which is when her results turned out positive for the viral infection. Meanwhile, some parents have demanded that no physical classes be conducted until a vaccine is launched or the pandemic ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/08-suraj_teacher-tests-positive-usgao-school-stops-classes/articleshow/79632609.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Dummy bomb explodes during drill, ATS commando injured||Panaji: An anti-terror squad commando got injured after a dummy bomb exploded during an anti-terror exercise. He had gone to defuse the “bomb” at Bambolim. Sources said that the commando, a Goa police personnel, got his leg injured, and was immediately shifted to Goa Medical College (GMC), where he was given treatment. The drill is part of an anti-terror exercise jointly conducted by the National Security Guard (NSG) and the ATS. The exercise will be completed on Wednesday. “During the anti-terror drill, there was a mock exchange of fire taking place, and at that time, the dummy bomb exploded,” a source said. On the first day of the exercise (Monday), three dummy bombs planted at Miramar beach, the Porvorim secretariat, and Kala Academy were defused. The preparedness of the state machinery will be checked during these exercises. Police from both districts, fire and emergency services, ambulance (health) and the local administration is also part of the drill. It has around 500 NSG commandos and 1,000 Goa police personnel, including ATS. A similar exercise was conducted in 2018. Goa is always on high alert given its popularity as an international tourist destination, and such exercises “help as a confidence-building measure”, a source said. The ATS has compiled a database of important places, and it contains elaborate details of all installations, plans, entry and exit points, photographs of nearby lanes, buildings, and other locations. The database also includes major temples, churches and five-star hotels. The ATS will continue collecting information, and update the database periodically, in case hotels and other estbalishments change. Around 100 of its personnel are involved in collecting data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dummy-bomb-explodes-during-drill-ats-commando-injured/articleshow/79632666.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Sailor found dead near construction site in Vasco||Panaji/Vasco: A 33-year old Indian Navy sailor, identified as Rajiv Kumar Kushwaha, was found dead near an under-construction building within the naval residential area. Kushwaha’s body was sent to Goa Medical College and hospital where the autopsy was conducted. Goa Police has registered the case as unnatural death and is conducting further investigations to ascertain the actual cause of death. Kushwaha, who was posted as an electrical technician at the naval base, INS Hansa, reportedly stepped out for a late night walk. “The body was found next to an under-construction building. The post mortem report has come and we have registered an unnatural death,” said a police official. Police personnel at Vasco Police Station and Naval authorities are investigating the circumstances behind Kushwaha’s death, which according to preliminary investigations occurred on December 7. A source said that given the nature of injuries and the location of the body, police officials are looking at all possibilities, including suicide. Kushwaha leaves behind a wife and two children who were residing with him at Varunapuri, Vasco at the naval quarters. The death comes even as the naval base comes to terms with the death of naval pilot, Nishant Singh, whose mortal remains were found just a day prior to Kushwaha’s. Kushwaha, who was posted as an electrical technician at the naval base, INS Hansa, reportedly stepped out for a late night walk. Vasco police and Naval authorities are investigating the circumstances behind his death||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sailor-found-dead-near-construction-site-in-vasco/articleshow/79632726.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Bandh against farm laws has some impact in Tamil Nadu, is total in Puducherry||CHENNAI: The nation-wide Bharat bandh called by various farmers' organisations and opposition parties on Tuesday, demanding that the three new farm laws be repealed, passed off peacefully across the state. While it hardly made any impact in most parts of the state, normal life almost came to a halt in the delta districts in central Tamil Nadu. Most commercial establishments remained closed in Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts. Taxis and auto rickshaws remained off the roads in these districts, but government and private buses plied with very few passengers. Police arrested over 8,000 protestors including farmers and cadres of the DMK and its alliance partners for resorting to road and rail roko in delta districts. The bandh evoked mixed response in Madurai district. Police said 1,250 people affiliated to the DMK and its allies were arrested at 15 places in Madurai district. Their attempts to block train were thwarted by police. The bandh was a failure in most northern districts, where life was normal and vehicles plied as usual. Police detained 920 people in Villupuram district for attempting to block roads. More than 750 people, including 94 women were arrested in Cuddalore district. In Coimbatore, more than 70% of commercial establishments functioned as usual. However, the bandh was near total in the Union territory of Puducherry, especially in Puducherry and Karaikal towns. Roads remained almost empty as private and government buses did not operate. Buses from Tamil Nadu were stopped at the border. There was no major violence or untoward incident though. Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy visited the protest venue and extended his support to the protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bandh-against-farm-laws-has-some-impact-in-tamil-nadu-is-total-in-puducherry/articleshow/79634988.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Carambolim ryots allege illegalities by bund assoc||Panaji: Tenant farmers from Carambolim are plagued with a multitude of issues that threaten to impact the productivity of their land. Open sluice gates flooded their paddy fields in 2009 and even after repairs they have not been able to return to farming. They have written to chief minister Pramod Sawant to intervene in the matter after multiple complaints to the mamlatdar fell on deaf ears. One farmer representing the Dhado Khazan tenants association said that it was only till 2009 that Khazan land farmers in Carambolim cultivated their paddy field. In the same year, the bund broke and saline water entered their paddy fields. The incident was allegedly due to the carelessness of the managing committee of the bund association. The bund was repaired in 2010 at a cost of Rs 4 crore after the farmers requested the bund and soil conservation department to repair it. However, despite it being repaired, the managing committee has not permitted the farmers to resume cultivation. “From 2010 till date, the association has been earning crores of rupees from the auctioning of fishing rights of the sluice gates, but the association has not given a single paisa to the farmers as compensation,” their letter stated. A decade on, most of the tenants have passed away and only a few legal heirs remain. The farmers alleged that new names have been added to the tenants list illegally. The most recent complaint regarding the auction of fishing rights made by the farmers was this year, in January, wherein they claim to have put forward their grievances to the mamlatdar and the collector, besides an application made to the directorate of agriculture. “The auctioning of fishing rights of sluice gates of the Dhado Khazan tenants association this year was Rs 70 lakh, but the managing committee failed to transfer the amount in the accounts of the association, and misappropriate the amount,” the letter reads. A writ petition was also filed in March for the mamlatdar to look into the complaints and update the tenants’ list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/carambolim-ryots-allege-illegalities-by-bund-assoc/articleshow/79632796.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Woman dies after being pushed during petty quarrel||PONDA: Droupadi Govind Gaude, 66, a resident of Mauzowada-Kundaim, Ponda, succumbed to injuries she sustained during a spat with her neighbour. According to Ponda PI Mohan Gaude, the accused Pramila Ramdas Naik, 46, pushed Gaude during an argument. Police said the accused Naik was on a visit to her maternal home at Kundaim, when her son trespassed into Gaude’s property, leading to a quarrel between the two. “The victim scolded the child, which was the petty reason for the quarrel. During the argument, the accused woman pushed Gaude to the ground in a fit of rage. The victim was injured and was hospitalised, where she succumbed on Monday due internal injuries,” the police officer said. Following her death, we have booked the accused Naik for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of the IPC. However, she has not been arrested until late Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/woman-dies-after-being-pushed-during-petty-quarrel/articleshow/79632831.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Goa||Goa: Villagers paint message on road to get waste cleared||COLVA: Tired of garbage being strewn along roads in different stretches of Benaulim village, some locals decided to adopt a novel method to get their message across to the MLA and the panchayat. The unknown locals painted a message on one of the roads that has garbage dumped alongside. The message reads, ‘MLA, sarpanch, ward panch. Clean the garbage ASAP, it’s your duty’. Some spots by the roadside in Benaulim have become dumping sites for garbage. The waste ranges from domestic — packed in plastic bags — or that from livestock — filled in cement bags. At times, even dead pets are seen dumped in these areas. This not only attracts scavengers, but leads to the area perennially stinking of rotting waste. Sarpanch Ezlina Fernandes said that cleaning of the ‘black spots’ is taken up from time to time, but the menace continues. She also said that ward members are sanctioned Rs 1,500 per month to get their respective wards cleaned up. Fernandes said that a resolution has also been adopted by her predecessors about installing surveillance cameras so that a watch can be maintained on the offenders. But this resolution has not been implemented. When asked when the area where the message has been painted was last cleared, ward member Felicia Noronha said it was just before the monsoons, which is six months ago. She said she is unaware of the message painted on the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/villagers-paint-message-on-road-to-get-waste-cleared/articleshow/79632879.cms||Nisser Dias
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai corporation serves 50 lakh meals in three days, reaches 25% of targeted slum populace||CHENNAI: The state government through Greater Chennai Corporation has earmarked Rs 273 crore from the State Disaster Relief Fund to provide three meals free of cost to 26 lakh people in Chennai's slums. Official data shows that under scheme begun on Sunday morning, the corporation had by Tuesday evening reached 6.8 lakh people. Until dinner time on Sunday, the numbers were 5.5 lakh. The corporation has fixed 150 per person per day. "For Covid-19 patients, we spent 300-350 per person per day," a senior corporation official said. The cost includes the money spent on labour, sourcing raw material and transportation. Termed the largest community food service ever undertaken in Chennai, commissioner G Prakash said this was done to compensate the loss of livelihood for the poorest of the poor. A visit to a kitchen near Mint bus terminus in north Chennai showed zonal level officials were given complete freedom in choosing the menu. The only condition was that food had to be nutritious and piping hot. It would be unlimited. TOI saw slum residents near Mint flyover bringing in vessels to collect food that could last another meal. The corporation, which has at least one asset in every division where food can be cooked and distributed, has mobilized its disaster relief infrastructure. Zonal level officials have a list of local cooks who helped them during relief work in the last few years. Essentials were procured through TUCS and local shops. "Amma Canteens have been roped in, but they can't prepare for such large numbers," said a zonal official. In Royapuram, 15 wards have been divided into three divisions each of which cooks food for 25,000 beneficiaries. FOCUS volunteers hired for Covid work help transport and distribute food. "The demand for a particular meal is determined by the assistant engineer in each ward based on the quantity supplied in the previous meal. Since cooks are present at the relief centres full time, they can prepare more in case of shortage," an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/greater-chennai-corporation-serves-6-8-lakh-free-meals-in-three-days/articleshow/79635002.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||JMM, Cong say Bharat Bandh a grand success, BJP calls it political stunt||Ranchi: Ruling JMM and Congress on Tuesday termed the Bharat Bandh in Jharkhand as a grand success, but opposition BJP claimed that it failed to make an impact and said the farmers and the public at large have rejected the "politically motivated stir". The bandh, called by farmers' bodies against the Centre's newly implemented farm laws, was enforced across the country from 11 am to 3 pm. In Jharkhand, the Hemant Soren government extended support and demanded rollback of the laws, terming them as unconstitutional and an attack on "annadatas" (farmers). Left parties, too, hit the streets along with a slew of social outfits backed by them. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We thank the people of Jharkhand for whole-heartedly making the bandh a grand success. Your support signifies that the next rebellion against the high-handedness of the Union government to dent all constitutional rights of the states and their people will kick off from Jharkhand. Our CM, Hemant Soren, will fight for the rights and dignity of this state." Congress leaders, who took part in the bandh in Ranchi and other districts, too, said the bandh was spontaneous. All three key ministers from Congress — Rameshwar Oraon (finance), Badal Patralekh (agriculture) and Alamgir Alam (rural development) and party MLAs came out on the streets to take part in the agitation. Party spokesperson Alok Dubey, who along with his team was at the Albert Ekka Chowk since morning, said, “The bandh was spontaneous and without any violence or untoward incidents. These are enough signs of the looming anger against the Union government. Be it farm laws, labour laws and others brought in the recent years, they were anti-people and pro-capitalist. Congress, as a party, will continue to be at the forefront to take up people’s cause from the streets to Parliament.” Another Congress leader, Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, said while the Centre’s new farm laws are aimed at ending the minimum support price (MSP), governments with Congress as partners are giving equitable markets to the farmers. Meanwhile, BJP criticised the coalition government for "playing politics" over farmers' issues. “While the parties opposed to the new farm laws resorted to political stunts on the streets, the farmers remained unconcerned and so was the general public. That is because people have realized that the NDA government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was re-elected with a landslide mandate last year, has been working for them,” state BJP president Deepak Prakash said. Former chief minister Raghubar Das accused the ruling mahagathbandhan of shedding crocodile tears for the farmers. “Soon after coming to power, the Hemant Soren government scrapped the CM Krishi Ashiward Yojana which ensured financial incentives to small and marginal farmers and also halted the paddy procurement process after announcing it earlier this month. The farmers continue to suffer, but the state government is busy shedding crocodile tears for them,” he said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-cong-say-bharat-bandh-a-grand-success-bjp-calls-it-political-stunt/articleshow/79630803.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||BJP worker’s post-mortem points to shotgun wounds||Siliguri/Jalpaiguri: BJP worker Ullen Roy’s death during the party’s Siliguri agitation on Monday was because of “the effect of shotgun injuries”, the post-mortem said on Tuesday. The report prompted Bengal police officials to iterate that “cops do not use shotguns” and it was “obvious that armed persons” were present during the Uttarkanya march organised by BJP. A Jalpaiguri court, however, later ordered a second post-mortem after an appeal from Roy’s family and sought a report by Friday. The Bengal government ordered a state Criminal Investigation Department probe into Roy’s death but the BJP insisted on a Central Bureau of Investigation inquiry. BJP leaders said the pellet wounds that Roy received were on his chest and not back and he was facing cops and had his back to other BJP supporters. This, they said, meant that the pellets were fired from “where the cops stood”. CM Mamata Banerjee, who was in Raniganj on Tuesday, backed the police version, stating categorically that “cops never use pellets”. “BJP nijei michhil kore, nijei lok mare (BJP organises rallies and kills people). The party’s only agenda is to spread canards and lies,” she said. The post-mortem report specified eight “firearm wounds” and added that the examination had found “metallic pellets embedded in muscle”, concluding that the death was because of the “effect of shotgun injuries”. Roy may have been fired at from four metres and died not more than 12 hours before the autopsy conducted at 9.30pm on Monday. Roy received “injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing nearby during the protest programme”, the police report into the incident said. “This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons to protest programmes and inciting them to fire is unheard of. There was a mala fide intention to create violence using firearms,” it added. Later on Tuesday, however, a Jalpaiguri court allowed Roy’s family’s plea for another post-mortem probe. “We were asked by police officers to reach the hospital on Monday night and asked to sign some papers. We were not happy with the post-mortem report and so wanted a second test,” one of Roy’s family members told TOI. The plea for a second post-mortem probe was moved by a relative, Santibala Roy. Till Tuesday evening, however, the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital had not received the court order, principal P K Deb said. The post-mortem report was consistent with Roy’s admission report at Maharaja Agrasen Healthcare Centre, where he was taken on Monday afternoon; he had multiple pellet marks on his chest and upper abdomen, the admission report said. Senior Trinamool Congress minister Subrata Mukherjee alleged some rallyists had shotguns and even “the victim had one”. “BJP workers brought these shotguns to the rally to spread panic. The victim was injured and later died,” he added. The BJP said it had no faith in a CID probe. “What is the point in a CID investigation when cops have completed the probe even before it has started?” BJP spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya asked. “Why was the post-mortem probe done in absolute secrecy in the middle of the night?” State BJP secretary Sayantan Basu alleged that cops brought Roy’s family members to the morgue on Monday night and made them sign some documents. “The family will not take the body till a second post-mortem investigation is done in the presence of three experts; it should also be properly videographed. Only a CBI probe will bring out the truth,” he added. (with inputs from Dwaipayan Ghosh in Kolkata and Mohammad Asif in Ranigunj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-workers-post-mortem-points-to-shotgun-wounds/articleshow/79633855.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Coast Guard rescues 19 Bangla fishermen stranded at sea||Kolkata: The Indian Coast Guard on Tuesday rescued 19 Bangladeshi fishermen who were adrift at sea without food or water for nearly a fortnight. Their fishing trawler was spotted inside India’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) by an ICG Dornier patrolling the area late on Monday. After efforts to raise the crew over radio, the aircraft guided an ICG ship to the location of the trawler and the fishermen were rescued. “The fishermen were in very bad condition when we found them. They had run out of food and water. The master of the trawler ‘Rana’ told us that they left Cox’s Bazar on November 15 and the vessel developed engine trouble soon thereafter. It seems that they drifted in Bangladeshi waters for the next two-odd weeks before crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) inadvertently. That is when our aircraft spotted it,” a senior ICG official said. After failing to communicate with Rana over VHF radio failed, the ICG Dornier passed on the information to Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICGS) Varad that was deployed in the Bay of Bengal on another operational mission. Personnel on the ICGS Varad boarded the trawler on Tuesday morning and came to know of the crew’s predicament. All relief, including food, water and medical assistance, was provided. The ICG’s northeast regional headquarters in Kolkata then got in touch with the Bangladesh Coast Guard, as per a set protocol, to take back the trawler and fishermen at a predesignated point along the IMBL. When asked why Bangladesh isn’t letting go of some Indian fishermen apprehended by them, the official said that the agreement is only for those in distress who cross over the IMBL inadvertently. A few days ago, an Indian fishing boat was apprehended by Bangladeshi authorities while fishing in their waters. The official said this boat was a frequent offender and its master had been warned on at least three occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coast-guard-rescues-19-bangla-fishermen-stranded-at-sea/articleshow/79633835.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Home-bound senior medics stare at bleak future with job squeeze at old workplaces||KOLKATA: For a large number of Kolkata’s senior doctors, the pandemic has not only been a looming health threat but has also halted their booming practice, robbed them of their earnings and left them staring at an uncertain future. Scores of experienced medics — many of them leading in their respective specialities — have been forced to stay away from hospitals and private chambers to avoid infection and are not sure of being able to return to work ever again. Some of them stopped their practice after a few colleagues died of Covid and others were persuaded by their families to stay away from patients. While some of them have latched on to online consultations, they admit it can’t be a long-term substitute for face-to-face interactions. Some private hospitals, too, have said that they wouldn’t like their senior doctors to risk their lives and would rather replace them with younger doctors. The pandemic has also prompted many senior specialists to switch hospitals as their patient count dropped with the hospitals squeezing their non-Covid operations to expand Covid units. At Peerless Hospital, around six senior doctors opted out of their outpatient department (OPD) duties last March and have since been practising from home. The hospital has encouraged younger doctors to take over their patients. “While it’s risky for the senior doctors, we have got good replacements in younger medics who are quickly stepping into their shoes. Till the pandemic, 60% of our OPD patients would visit highly rated doctors. Now, the patient load is more evenly distributed among the younger lot and patients are happy with them,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Among those who have been absent at the hospital are gastro-enterologist Ashokananda Konar, cardiologist Anjan Dutta, ear-nose-throat specialist Dulal Bose and gynaecologist Biman Ghosh. ‘Online treatment has its limitations’Konar, who has been a practising medic for over 40 years, has not visited the hospital or his chamber since March. “Initially it was difficult but then I moved to telemedicine and have now got used to it. It is the only alternative and many of my colleagues are doing it,” he said but added that most of his patients are those who are following up on their treatment. “Treating a new patient is difficult since online interaction has its limitations and doesn’t allow clinical examination, which is restrictive. But things must go on and it’s not impossible to treat patients online. I hope to be able to return to my hospital and chamber in a month-and-half,” said Konar. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital internal medicine consultant Dhiman Sen, too, has been home-bound for the last nine months and switched to telemedicine. “As a doctor, I need to be safe to be able to serve my patients. With the pandemic still on, I don’t wish to resume face-to-face interaction till a vaccine is available,” Sen said. “Many of my colleagues are contemplating quitting the profession but I don’t wish to. It’s my only skill and I want to keep using it,” he added. Cardiologist Anjan Dutta, too, has been practising “largely from home” since March. “I resumed surgeries last month but have done very few,” he said. Fortis Hospital pulmonologist Raja Dhar pointed out that a substantial number of these senior doctors are consultants or surgeons whose earnings have dropped drastically. “They can’t return to work till the pandemic ebbs which may not happen soon. It’s frustrating for they are not being able to use their only skill-set and many could actually see their careers end,” he said. Cardiac surgeon and senior vice-chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, Kunal Sarkar, said the Covid disruption has left most private hospitals under a severe financial stress. “Like any other sector, we, too, have been affected and job losses will invariably lead to job switches,” Sarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/home-bound-senior-medics-stare-at-bleak-future-with-job-squeeze-at-old-workplaces/articleshow/79633869.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee lashes out at BJP for ‘spreading lies, killing people’||RAMIGANJ/MIDNAPORE: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday hit out at BJP saying it was spreading “lies”, holding rallies and killing its own people, a day after saffron party worker Ullen Roy was killed during the Uttarkanya Abhiyan organized by BJP Yuva Morcha in north Bengal. “I was away in Midnapore when the incident happened. What I gathered from the autopsy report of the victim is that the person fell to pellets fired from a shotgun. Police do not use shotguns. They (BJP) have fallen to such a low that they killed a Rajbanshi brother to gain publicity. BJP spreads lies, holds rallies and kills people,” Banerjee said while leaving the administrative meeting held in Raniganj on Tuesday. The CM instead wanted a competition among political parties for Bengal’s development. “Don’t spread lies and riots like a whirlwind. Let there be a competition to fasttrack development,” she said. Banerjee, swearing by farmers’ cause, took on the ruling BJP at the Centre over its attempt to privatize key public sector companies. “There is much hullabaloo over the CBI investigation into illegal coal mining when coal mafia are thriving under BJP’s wings. The BJP-led Centre is trying to throw open the coal sector to private takers, close down Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) as they are doing with VSNL, airlines, railways, banks,” she said. “They are out to close down Chittaranjan Locomotive when I took the initiative to revive it. We will resist the Centre’s privatization bid,” the CM added, pointing out that her government had been paying salaries of Durgapur Projects Ltd (DPL) for the past 11 months since operations stopped in the state-undertaking. With an eye on a large chunk of the coal-belt population involved in illegal coal mining, Banerjee said: “I had proposed to the Centre to work together and find ways for legalizing mining in abandoned mines so that people get employment. The Centre didn’t respond.” Addressing the mixed population in Bengali and Hindi, Banerjee said she didn’t want to classify Bengalis on the basis of language and religion. “People who reside in Bengal are Bengali, no matter what language they speak or which religion they believe in,” she said while handing out 3,584 flats in the first phase to people now living in landslide-prone zones of the Raniganj-Asansol coal belt. The CM also gave alternative land to 1,500 landowners who gave land for the Andal airport, and named it Kazi Nazrul Islam airport. “Another 2,643 landowners who gave land below 33 decimals have got monetary compensation,” she said at the Raniganj meeting. Before coming to Raniganj, the CM attended the government’s outreach programme, Duare Sarkar, in Midnapore on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-lashes-out-at-bjp-for-spreading-lies-killing-people/articleshow/79633781.cms||Mohammad Asif
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||Tractors, garland of rotis mark protest day in Ranchi||Ranchi: The nationwide bandh call against the Centre’s farm laws saw dramatic scenes unfold in Ranchi as leaders of various political parties used symbols related to farming, hunger and the state of Indian farmers to register their protest on Tuesday. While rallies on foot and on bikes accompanied by slogans were common across Ranchi district, JMM leader and chairperson of the state commission for women Mahua Manjhi sat on a tractor arranged by her supporters. Manjhi said, “I wanted to show that our farmers should be strong and progressive instead of being exploited by capitalists under the new law.” Meanwhile, Maxist Coordination Committee leader Susanto Mukherjee arrived wearing a garland of rotis (flat breads) and Congress leaders sat on a dharna at Albert Ekka Chowk with a plough. State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, agriculture minister Badal Patralekh and a few others rode and auto-rickshaw while shouting slogans. Addressing mediapersons Oraon said, “The Centre is determined to turn our farmers into agriculture labourers. The agitations will continue till the laws are withdrawn.” Party spokespersons Alok Dubey and Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, who led protests at Albert Ekka Chowk, said the party has been staging protests since September demanding a rollback of the new laws. “The laws were passed unconstitutionally and Congress stands in solidarity with the farmers across the country,” they said. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “Framing of such laws is a state subject and the new legislations by the Centre violate the federal spirit of the Constitution.” The bandh, enforced between 11am and 3pm, saw many commercial complexes remaining shut in Ranchi. While political parties and trade unions such as JMM, Congress, RJD, CPI, CPM, CPI(M-L), Marxist Coordination Committee (MCC) and Centre of Indian Trade Unions supported the bandh, religious bodies like the Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha, Markazi Majlis and Central Moharram Committee took out processions on the Mahatma Gandhi Road. Members of the Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha said, “The Sikh community stands with the farmers as they provide citizens with food.” The sabha was echoed by the Muharram committee which said the laws must be annulled. Assembled at Albert Ekka Chowk, political parties blocked roads and burnt effigies of the Centre and demanded a roll back of the farm laws and threatened protests until their demands are met. Reports from rural areas of Ranchi district said farmers’ bodies blocked roads at several places, including Rahe and Thungrudih. Jharkhand Rajya Kisan Samanvaya Samiti said the bandh was successful in several parts of rural Ranchi, including Sonahatu, Silli, Bundu and Namkum. Meanwhile, movement of long distance buses were affected as several bus owners abstained from operating their vehicles fearing vandalism. The normally busy Ranchi-Jamshedpur national highway wore a deserted look during the day. Kishore Mantri of Bus Owners Association said, “There was no hindrance in plying vehicles, but many busses did not operate due to lack of passengers.” Trains services remained normal in the Ranchi division, said officials. Meanwhile, police said bandh supporters disrupted movement of traffic on the national highway in Gobindpur in Dhanbad district and Barhi Chowk and District More in Hazaribagh district. Reports of blocking of roads also came in from Ranchi, Gumla, Palamu, Latehar, Chatra, Dumka, Pakur, Giridih and Seraikela, but police intervened to restore normalcy. As many as 108 bandh supporters were arrested in Gumla, 125 in Jamshedpur and 135 in Dhanbad, but later on they were set free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tractors-garland-of-rotis-mark-protest-day-in-ranchi/articleshow/79630705.cms||Sanjay Sahay
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||Bandh paralyses Dhanbad, Koderma & Palamu remain unaffected||Sindri/Chatra/Koderma/Garhwa/Daltonganj: The Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions affected normal life in Dhanbad on Tuesday. Bandh supporters blocked traffic at more than a dozen spots and tyre burning was also reported from several places. In Sindri, supporters of the Left parties were seen threatening vegetable sellers in a bid to enforce the bandh. Jharia Congress MLA Purnima Singh and district Congress president Brajendra Singh led the demonstration at Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad, while JMM supporters blocked GT Road near Subhash Chowk in Govindpur. “Why is the Centre not repealing the farm laws despite the agitation by farmers,” asked Purnima Singh. In some areas, citizens could be seen requesting bandh supporters to not block ambulances and vehicles used by marriage parties. Police also escorted these vehicles at a few places. The Sealdah-bound Rajdhani express train left Dhanbad at the right time under heavy police protection. In Chatra, NH-99 and NH-100, which are considered lifelines of the district, wore a deserted look since early morning. Coal transportation from mining projects in Piparwar and Tandwa, too, suffered in the wake of the bandh, said an official. Bandh supporters also disrupted work at an under-construction power plant of NTPC in Tandwa. Protesters blocked the busy Kesri Chowk, forcing business establishments to down shutters till noon. In Gumla and Lohardaga, protesters blocked Patel Chowk in the morning, thereby halting traffic along NH-78. Bauxite mining operations were hit in both the districts. No effect of the bandh, however, was felt in Koderma and Palamu, while the Ranka Mor in Garhwa town was blocked by protesters forcing several vehicles on NH-75 and NH-343 to remain stranded for hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bandh-paralyses-dhanbad-koderma-palamu-remain-unaffected/articleshow/79630876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Golden jackal burnt alive in Purulia village||Kolkata: A golden jackal, a Schedule III animal under the Wildlife Protection Act (1972), was burnt alive in a Purulia village after it fell into a ditch and injured itself on Saturday. Some students who caught the perpetrator on camera frantically tried to contact the forest authorities, but in vain. A formal complaint was lodged a day later after a wildlife conservation group intervened, but by then accused Mahabir Mahato — a resident of Ugupiri village under Jhalda police station — was already on the run. The students spotted the animal trapped in a nayanjuli (seasonal water canal) on Saturday. Before they could organize help, Mahato began beating it up. When the children filmed the brutality, he threatened them. The group returned an hour later to find the jackal almost dead with severe burns on its body. They said they called the forest office, but no help arrived and the animal died. “We got in touch with Jhalda range officer Amiya Bikash Pal. The range office is barely 500 metres from the spot. When I asked him if he had lodged a formal FIR, Pal said he was waiting for a nod from his superior,” said Raja Chatterjee of Junglee, a wildlife conservation group. Things finally started moving after Chatterjee contacted senior forest officers. A beat officer went to Jhalda thana, but allegedly filed a shoddy general diary without specifying the act of brutality. “We are probing the incident,” a senior forest officer said. Police said the statement of the forest department in the diary was not strong enough for them to act. “Since the forest department is competent and empowered to deal with wildlife crimes, we cannot do anything on our own in these cases,” said a district police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/golden-jackal-burnt-alive-in-purulia-village/articleshow/79633850.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Bangla train to chug into NJP on Dec 17||Jalpaiguri: Come December 17 — the day after Vijay Diwas — and a goods train will chug into New Jalpaiguri (NJP) station from Chilahati in Bangladesh, along the newly connected Haldibari-Chilahati railway tracks, for the first time since 1965. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina are scheduled to meet virtually on the said day while Bangladesh railway minister Nurul Islam Sujon will flag off the goods train from Chilahati. In 2011, India and Bangladesh had inked a pact during Hasina’s visit to roll out new rail links for cultural exchange and trade between the two nations. There exists a railway line up to Haldibari, geographically in Cooch Behar district, near the Indo-Bangladesh border that comes under Katihar division of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). Prior to 1965, trains would pass through Haldibari and enter Chilahati in erstwhile East Pakistan and then travel to Calcutta (as the city was then known as). But, following the Indo-Pak war in 1965, the line was permanently closed. The route is now being revived. According to reports, Bangladesh has completed building seven railway bridges on the 6.724km tracks from Chilahati to the Indo-Bangladesh border. Once operational, this railway route will not only enhance trade with India, but also help Bangladesh trade with Nepal and Bhutan. The Indian Railways, on the other hand, has laid 4.5km of new tracks from Haldibari station to the Indo-Bangladesh border. It is also likely to run passenger trains to Kolkata from NJP via Chilahati, Domar, Toronbari, Nilfamari, Sayeedpur, Darshana and Parbatipur before entering Sealdah station through the Gede border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-train-to-chug-into-njp-on-dec-17/articleshow/79633823.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Exotic birds seized along Indo-Bangla border||Kolkata: In their continuing effort to curb trafficking of wildlife, Border Security Force (BSF) personnel of the South Bengal Frontier recovered 32 exotic birds being smuggled across the international border between India and Bangladesh in North 24-Parganas. The birds, being smuggled from Bangladesh to India, were stuffed in two cages. “Around 10.30 pm on Monday, troops of the 158Bn BSF posted at the Pipli Border Outpost acted on specific information and laid an ambush. On being challenged, a few suspects crossing the border illegally fled through the dense vegetation, dropping the two cages. The birds have been handed over to the director of the Alipore Zoo through the Customs department in Petrapole,” a senior BSF official said. Nearly a 100 exotic birds have been seized by the BSF along the Indo-Bangladesh border over the last few weeks. These birds are trafficked to markets in Kolkata and elsewhere and sold to collectors at high prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/exotic-birds-seized-along-indo-bangla-border/articleshow/79634000.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Two paisa press jibe: TMC distances itself from Mahua Moitra's comment||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress on Tuesday distanced itself from party MP Mahua Moitra’s “du poisar press” statement that has evoked sharp reactions in the media. Bengal panchayat minister and senior party leader Subrata Mukherjee said: “I have not heard what Mahua Moitra said but our party and chief minister Mamata Banerjee always believe in maintaining a good relationship with the press, and we always maintain that schooling. I do not feel good from what I am hearing. Still I can say it is her words and not the comment of the party.” Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee said on Tuesday: “I am respectful to the media. I may not agree with all media comments, but I still have faith in them.” Meanwhile, chief minister Banerjee on Tuesday thanked the media for their presence at her meeting in Raniganj. Moitra told TOI that she did not want to hurt journalists. She said she had been to Nadia’s Gayeshpur to attend a booth committee meeting and waded into infighting between two groups of party workers. “I was upset. The media was not invited to the internal party meeting. But what went viral was something I told my party workers, not to the media. Some insiders made it viral,” she said. The Kolkata Press Club in a statement has condemned Moitra’s remark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-distances-itself-from-mps-comment/articleshow/79633831.cms||Debasish Konar
December 9, 2020||Vadodara||Restaurant in Vadodara goes up in flames||VADODARA: A restaurant on Old Chhani Road was completely gutted as malfunctioning in electrical appliances sparked fire sometime before 8 am on Tuesday. The restaurant Tandoori Flames in Siddharth Elegance complex caught fire due to some malfunction in some electrical appliances. Fire official said that after closing the restaurant for the day on Monday, it is possible that some switch must have been left on which sparked fire. When firemen broke the restaurant’s glass panels, thick smoke emanated covering the upper floors of the complex. “We suspect that the fire would have started at least four to five hours before we got the emergency call at 8 am because when we reached and broke open the glass panels, the smoke which had accumulated inside for hours started coming out,” said fire officer, Om Jadeja, of Chhani fire station. Since the fire was noticed in the morning, not many people were present in the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/restaurant-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/79630338.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Bengal weighs civic polls in February||Kolkata: Since most board examinations have been deferred till June, Bengal officials are of the opinion that elections to municipalities and corporations can conveniently be held in February. While chief minister Mamata Banerjee will take the final call, government officials are already negotiating with the State Election Commission because the Supreme Court on Monday directed the government to inform it within 10 days when civic polls could be conducted in Bengal. “Major examinations like Madhyamik and HS (higher secondary) have been postponed till June and the assembly polls are likely to be held in April. There are some festivals in January and hence, February will be the appropriate time. The state must inform the SC on December 17 about the best option there is,” a senior government official said. “Though we are yet to finalise the date, our previous experiences suggest the assembly elections will take more than a month and will be followed by board examinations, monsoon and Durga Puja. So, it will be difficult to conduct polls later in the year,” he added. Asked about a possible civic poll schedule, a state election commission official said: “We are always ready, but the state government will have to fix the dates. Without its support, we cannot conduct the polls.” Elections to 110 municipalities and corporations, including the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, was deferred because of the Covid situation. These civic bodies are currently being run by a board of administrators who are mainly members from the previous board. The opposition has accused the government of trying to control these civic bodies and demanded immediate polling. The SC, hearing a petition from a Kolkata resident challenging the appointment of the administrators, directed the state to clear its stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-weighs-civic-polls-in-february/articleshow/79633839.cms||Saibal Gupta
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Guv calls DGP & CS, Trinamool suspects motive||Kolkata: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday asked the state chief secretary and DGP to meet him by December 12. He said, “Constrained in public interest to call upon CS and DGP. Their continued non-responsive stance and failure to update me on affairs of state tantamount to shredding all canons of governance in accordance with the Constitution.” This is not the first time Raj Bhavan has done this. Both officers were asked to meet the governor on October 30, they were even asked to meet him at Darjeeling Raj Bhavan. Trinamool Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee said the governor cannot summon officials as per his wish. “He has no such constitutional power. He is not an inspector. He has an ill-motive. He cannot ask daily for officers to appear before him. He cannot expect the officers to answer his questions.” Banerjee said if the chief secretary refused to meet him, he could not say anything to the chief secretary. “I remind the governor to function within his limits and the constitutional powers provided under Article 163 which speaks that the council of ministers is to aid and advise the governor.” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said: “The governor is asking questions as the constitutional rights of the people are at stake and so Trinamool is trying to make personal attacks at him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-calls-dgp-cs-trinamool-suspects-motive/articleshow/79633813.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool slams vandalism during BJP N Bengal bandh||Siliguri/Malda/Jalpaiguri: The tearing of a flex board on the Mamata Banerjee government’s flagship ‘Duare Sarkar’ programme by BJP supporters on Tuesday marked a day of sporadic incidents in north Bengal as the party tried to enforce a bandh called to protest its supporter’s death in the ‘Uttarkanya Cholo Abhiyan’ the day before. In some places, BJP supporters burnt Trinamool flags, prompting a strong reaction from the party. Around 12.45pm, BJP Yuva Morcha supporters marched from the party office at Jayamuni Bhawan to Mahatma Gandhi Crossing. They blocked roads and pulled down posters that had chief minister Banerjee’s image on them and set these on fire. Trinamool supporters dashed to the spot and urged police to clear the roads. When BJP activists tried to stop an NBSTC bus, Trinamool workers protested, leading to a scuffle. BJP later claimed their youth activist Nilabo Ghosal was beaten up by Trinamool men during this clash in presence of police. BJP also said 40 rallyists were arrested. No confirmation was forthcoming from police. Trinamool’s Darjeeling district president Ranjan Sarkar condemned the incident and said BJP was trying to set Bengal ablaze. “In my political career, I have not seen burning of party flags. It is a shameful act. Moreover, BJP leaders from outside are coming to Bengal and trying to burn up Siliguri. This will not be allowed,” he said. Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb said: “If such incidents occur, it is not expected we will give them rasogollas. We are not cowards.” Referring to the flex board vandalism, Trinamool in a statement said: “The vandalism and hooliganism portrayed by BJP has wreaked havoc across the peace loving state that Bengal truly is. We strongly condemn such acts.” The bandh had little effect in the tea belt. Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) said that of their 91 member gardens, none was affected. Markets and shops were closed in towns and other settlements dotted across Terai and Dooars. Most offices remained closed due to picketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-slams-vandalism-during-bjp-n-bengal-bandh/articleshow/79633857.cms||Roshan Gupta
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Farmers’ issue ‘unites’ and ‘divides’ Bengal parties||Malda/Kolkata: Bitter rivals in Bengal — Left, Congress and Trinamool — were on the same boat on Tuesday swearing at the Centre’s “anti-farmer” laws. Trinamool senior Subrata Mukherjee held this was one issue in which BJP stood “isolated” in the country. While Left Front chairman Biman Bose and CPI(M-L) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya walked the protest march in support of the Bharat bandh on Tuesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced at Raniganj that she was holding the administrative meeting after the bandh was over. Congress and Left supporters downed shutters at places, blocked highways and railway tracks in Jadavpur, Belgharia, New Barrackpore, Doltala More in North 24 Parganas, Nimtouri in Purba Midnapore and other points with the state administration taking a lenient stance towards bandh supporters. But the farmer issue soon became a part of the poll campaign matrix with both Left and Congress leaders hitting out at both BJP and Trinamool for the plight of peasants in Bengal. “Mamata Banerjee has no right to oppose the Centre’s farm laws. She was silent while the bills were pushed through in Parliament. It was the Congress that first flagged its dissent. Mamata has jumped into the fray when the agitation is spreading in the country,” Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury said at a huge gathering in Malda on Tuesday. Chowdhury also ticked off the Mamata Banerjee government for the rising potato and onion prices. “The Bengal government could have taken the legislative route like Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh did,” he said. CPM labour front Citu state secretary Anadi Sahu hit out at TMC over its “flip-flop”. “The state administration cracked down on Left supporters when they gave an all-India strike call on November 26 in support of the agitating farmers. Now, the Trinamool chief is desperate to join the stir,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/farmers-issue-unites-and-divides-bengal-parties/articleshow/79633851.cms||Subhro Maitra
December 9, 2020||Ranchi||Who will till the land if we join protests, ask marginal farmers||RANCHI: On a day when the ruling alliance in Jharkhand and other non-NDA parties hit the streets to enforce a nationwide bandh in the state against the new farm laws, Ramesh Sahu (50) was busy harvesting vegetables at his three-acre field in Chiroundi under Kanke block in the outskirts of Ranchi on Tuesday morning while his kids were sorting them to ready the stocks for transportation to the local markets. Unfettered about the agitation, Sahu’s entire focus was to finish off his work at the earliest to reach the nearby vegetable market. He feigned ignorance about the new farm laws, which has arguably led to a nationwide resentment among farmers, many of whom hail from states like Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh and are currently protesting along the Delhi borders for the last 13 days. Sahu wasn’t alone. Several other farmers in this area seemed equally unconcerned about the protests and the bandh or the new farm laws and went about their business. “If I start joining protests and dharnas who will take care of my crops? Earlier I reach the market, better the rate I get. More than grains, we need right prices for vegetables here as there is surplus produce in Jharkhand compared to paddy,” said Sahu. He also said lack of storage points keep farmers from getting a good price for their produce. Ganesh Yadav, another farmer, who grows both paddy and vegetables, said unlike big farmers of progressive states, the situation in Jharkhand is different. “Here, majority of the farmers are small or marginal who are not capable of making huge investments. Most of the paddy produced here is only for self-consumption while vegetables are sold outside. We don’t understand the nitty-gritties of the new farms laws. All we need is a good price for our hard work, irrespective of the place we sell. The situation here is that leave aside the price, we don’t even manage to come at a break-even point largely because of infrastructural gaps,” he said, demanding a focus on creating assets to support farming and farmers. Sumati Murmu, another farmer from the same area, said despite tall promises for MSPs, farmers hardly get benefit on the ground. “For us, instant money is the key. Selling at government procurement centres will only be helpful for us if we get immediate money or else we will miss out on the next cropping season,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/farmers-near-city-ignorant-about-laws-worried-only-about-prices/articleshow/79630725.cms||ASRP Mukesh
December 9, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tractors come to rescue of marooned residents||CHENNAI: Tractors and earthmovers came to the rescue of Thazhambur residents who had to reach Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) to procure essentials as rainwater inundated the southern suburb. Incessant rain triggered by two cyclones converted the residential pockets at Thazhambur into islands, cutting them off the main road and marooning about 5,000 people. The lone private bus operated by the Chengalpet district administration for the residents on Tuesday was inadequate forcing people to depend on heavy vehicles tractors and earthmovers. A section of people who need to visit their offices have booked rooms in hotels on OMR to commute to their offices. Jagadeesan, an employee in a gated community, said water has not receded. "In the event of any emergency, the residents give a call to the earthmovers and tractors drivers for assistance to travel. The frequency of the private educational institution bus is for once in one hour," he said. Local residents said there several pockets of Thazhambur were in hip-deep water. M Prabhakar, a resident of Casagrand Elan comprising 330 villas, said water has not been drained in the past two weeks in areas surrounding their gated community. When contacted, Chengalpet collector John Louis told TOI that three small culverts in Nookampalayam Road falling under Greater Chennai Corporation limits have been demolished to drain out water. He said a compound wall in Ottiyambakkam area will be removed such that water in Thazhambur is drained in a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-tractors-come-to-rescue-of-marooned-residents/articleshow/79635005.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
December 9, 2020||Business||Noida firm bags Kol Metro X-ray scanner deal||Kolkata: Noida-based AI security, traffic management and Covid safety solutions firm Vehant Technologies has bagged a contract to supply 24 baggage scanners to Kolkata Metro. The single-view X-ray scanners are likely to be commissioned by December-end at 23 stations on the north-south line. The deal was recently closed at a price of Rs 4.5 crore. Co-founder of Vehant Technologies Kapil Bardeja said, “The single-view baggage scanners, Kritiscan 6040, will be placed at stations like Park Street, Rabindra Sarobar, Chandni Chowk, Dum Dum and Mahatma Gandhi Road. One has been placed at Metro Bhawan. The machines are usually handed over to the CISF personnel for operations at airports within a week of commissioning after training them. The same would be done in case of the machines for Metro that would be operated by RPF personnel.” “KritiScan is an ideal X-ray baggage-scanning system for checkpoints and small baggage-scanning requirements at high security premises,” he said. Last month, the company had commissioned four standalone dual-view X-ray scanners at the Kolkata airport. “So far, we have supplied 350 machines at airports, ports and MHA premises across India,” he added. Bardeja also said that Vehant Technologies has already installed Under Vehicle Scanning Systems (UVSS) at Howrah railway station and baggage scanners at various Metro stations, Calcutta High Court and the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited office. The firm at an “advanced level of talks” with Kolkata Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/noida-firm-bags-kol-metro-x-ray-scanner-deal/articleshow/79633025.cms||Abhishek Chakraborty
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Wanted to meet farmers: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that he wanted to spend half an hour with the agitating farmers as a show of support during the Bharat bandh, but he was not allowed to do so. Kejriwal was speaking to Aam Aadmi Party functionaries who arrived in numbers at his residence in reaction to the news of the CM being put under “house arrest”. AAP had earlier claimed that Delhi Police had put Kejriwal under house arrest to prevent his visit to the protest site, though the police force refuted the allegation. “The Bharat bandh was highly successful. People from across the nation supported the bandh in their own way,” Kejriwal said. “I wanted to spend some time with the farmers today, not as a chief minister, but as a sewadar. But I think the central government got to know about my plan, and did not let me go. Though I couldn’t go, I was praying from my home for the movement to be successful across the nation.” Alleging the central government wanted to stop the protest, the CM told the AAP members, “First of all, they tried to stop the farmers in every city of Haryana when they were travelling to Delhi. They used water cannons and tear gas shells and set up barricades on the roads. But our farmers defied everything and reached Delhi. The Centre then decided to let the farmers enter Delhi, but asked Delhi government for permission to convert nine stadiums into jails. I knew that they would put the farmers into jails to weaken their movement. There was a lot of pressure on us, but we decided to support the farmers, which I think helped their movement. Since then, the central government is angry at us.” Kejriwal maintained his visit to Singhu border had also upset the central government. “Because of this, the central government has been trying to stop me from leaving my house for the last two days,” Kejriwal claimed, appealing to the Centre to repeal the laws without any argument. He said, “I hope the central government accepts the demands of the farmers as soon as possible and pass a law guaranteeing minimum support price for farm products so that our farmers do not have to hold sit-in protests in these harsh weather conditions any longer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wanted-to-meet-farmers-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal/articleshow/79635030.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Wary of trouble, people stay home; roads empty||NEW DELHI: The roads in the capital were mostly empty on Tuesday even as a heavy traffic police deployment was made to avoid any untoward incident in the wake of Bharat bandh called by protesting farmers. While many Delhiites decided to stay home, inter-NCR traffic was disrupted again with most entry/exit points into/from Delhi remaining shut. Commuters, crossing the carriageway opposite Akshardham, had to take NH-24 to reach Noida as police closed the flyover. The movement on DND Flyway was, however, rather smooth with farmers causing no disruption. Many commuters decided to take the Delhi Metro. “I had an important work and thought there could be protests inside Delhi too. So I took the Metro,” said Kamal Singh, a resident of east Delhi who daily travels to ITO. Rishi Rawat, who travels from Janakpuri to Chanakyapuri every day, had it comparatively easy. “I had left home an hour early. But there was less than usual snarls and I reached half an hour early.” The Delhi-Meerut highway and the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border were blocked by farmers till 3pm amid heavy police presence. However, emergency-service vehicles were allowed to pass. “Traffic movement at Ghazipur border in the carriageway from Delhi to Ghaziabad is open and Ghaziabad to Delhi is closed,” Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. The traffic police also said NH-44 was closed from both sides, while Jhatikara and Badusarai borders were open only for two-wheelers and pedestrians. The 12-day protests at Delhi’s borders against three central farm laws have disrupted the traffic movement in NCR as most interstate borders around Delhi have since been closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-wary-of-trouble-people-stay-home-roads-empty/articleshow/79635061.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
December 9, 2020||Udaipur||BJP forms board in Udaipur, Chittorgarh||UDAIPUR: The saffron party got thumping majority in three districts of South Rajsthan. BJP retained its power in Chittorgarh and Udaipur. In Udaipur district, of the 43 seats, the saffron party won on 27 while Congress candidates were declared elected on 15 while Janta Sena won a seat here. The outgoing zila pramukh Shantilal Meghwal lost the election to his Congress rival from Mavli seat in ward number 37 with a wide margin of 2,617 votes. With the zila pramukh seat reserved for General Woman, Mamta Panwar and Pinky Mandawat are being speculated as the top contenders here. BJP wins 21 of 26 seats in Chittorgarh With 21 out of the total 25 zila parishad seats in Chittorgarh, BJP retained its power and hold in the district. Congress managed to win four seats and shocking was the defeat of Manoharlal , brother of minister Udailal Anjana in ward number 18. While the in last elections, BJP board had 18 seats, this time it has gained victory in three more seats. In panchayat samiti elections here, of the 11 seats, BJP candidates bagged 9 while Congress could bag only two seats of Gangrar and Kapasan. Ex-MLA and dairy chairman Badri Lal Jat and Ex-MLA Suresh Dhakad are the main contenders for the zila pramukh post here. Congress Board in BanswaraAfter victory on 20 seats out of 31 in Banswara zila parishad, Congress candidates are excited to form the board here. The saffron party was limited to 10 seats while BTP candidate bagged one seat. Resham Malviya, wife of ex-minister Mahendrajit Singh Malviya, and Vikas Bamnia, son of Arjun Bamnia, are the strong contenders for the coveted zila pramukh post. BTP defeats national parties in DungarpurIn Dungarpur, Bhartiya Tribal Party got a huge victory after grabbing 13 of the total 27 seats. Congress candidates managed to win on 6 seats while BJP bagged remaining eight seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bjp-forms-board-in-udaipur-chittorgarh/articleshow/79635067.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Photographer on bike with fiancée ‘attacked, chased’ by group of 5-6 men||GHAZIABAD: A photojournalist working with the Press Trust of India (PTI) has alleged that he and his fiancée were assaulted by a group of unidentified men in Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar when they were returning to the city from Delhi on a bike. The photographer, Ravi Chaudhary, claimed that around 6pm on Monday, about five-six men in a Bolero, which had ‘Bharat Sarkar’ written on it in red, intercepted his bike on Ganga canal road and started abusing the couple. “When I opposed this, the driver blocked my way and some men came out of the car and started beating me. They also assaulted my fiancée,” he alleged. On a bike, I was attacked by 5-6 men on Ganga canal road. BOLERO car no: UP 14 DN 9545, had written 'bharat sarkar… https://t.co/npLDXQ7EVk— Ravi Choudhary (@choudharyview) 1607345833000“Somehow, I managed to escape with the help of passersby who came to rescue us, but the accused chased my motorcycle for more than a kilometre. I rode to the Muradnagar police station to file a complaint but the cops assured me they would take action and refused to register my complaint,” Chaudhary claimed. Immediately afterwards, Chaudhary shared his experience on Twitter, tagging UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, SP leader Akhilesh Yadav and UP Police, among others. He also posted a photo of the car (registration number UP 14 DN 9545) that had allegedly chased the couple. “Only after that, my complaint was registered by Muradnagar police,” Chaudhary told TOI. Police, however, refuted Chaudhary’s claims, saying there had been no delay in taking the complaint. Amit Kumar, SHO, Muradnagar police station, said an FIR had been lodged against unknown persons under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace). “Police have traced the vehicle number and investigation revealed that the car owner sold his car two years ago but didn’t transfer the ownership. We have got some leads and a team has been formed to arrest the culprits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/pti-photographer-on-bike-with-fiance-attacked-chased-by-group-of-5-6-men/articleshow/79632200.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
December 9, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fire at chemical factory in Ahmedabad; no casualty||AHMEDABAD: A major fire broke out in a chemical factory and spread to some adjoining units in Vatva industrial area of Gujarat's Ahmedabad city in the wee hours of Wednesday, officials said. There was no report of any casualty, they said. Fire breaks out at a chemical factory in Vatva area of #Ahmedabad https://t.co/YmmsVNiELy— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1607474023000The fire also gutted some temporary shelters of construction workers near the factory, but they managed to move out to a safer place in time, additional chief fire officer Rajesh Bhatt said. Watch: Fire at a chemical factory in Vatva area of #Ahmedabad https://t.co/KaQv1NtcUb— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1607489748000The blaze started in the chemical unit around 1am and quickly spread to four factories located in the vicinity, said Bhatt, who led the firefighting operation. Watch: Fire at a chemical factory in Vatva area of #Ahmedabad https://t.co/PHYb4yXWDM— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1607489724000"Around 40 fire fighting vehicles were pressed into service. The blaze was brought under control after about four hours. Water is still being sprayed as part of the cooling operation," another official from the fire brigade control room said. Watch: Fire at a chemical factory in Vatva area of #Ahmedabad https://t.co/ySYu4iADwW— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1607489697000No one was injured or killed in the fire, Bhatt said. The chemical unit and four other factories located near it were gutted in the blaze, he said. The cause of the the fire was not yet known, he said, adding that the chemical factory was not operational since some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-breaks-out-in-ahmedabad-chemical-factory/articleshow/79635084.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Delhi||Over a third of North Delhi Municipal Corporation budget now based on loans; no new taxes||NEW DELHI: Despite its mounting financial troubles, the executive wing of North Delhi Municipal Corporation has refrained from proposing any increase in property taxes this year. It does not want to impose extra burden on people during the pandemic, the executive wing stated. Sinking deeper into an economic mess, the corporation has seen its liabilities increase from Rs 6,176 crore last year to Rs 7,524 crore this year. The extent of crisis can be gauged from the fact that over 1/3rd (37.4%) of overall expenditure of Rs 9,205.9 crore now directly depends on expected loan. With the commissioner unwell, the additional commissioner delivered the annual budget proposals for 2021-22 on Tuesday in a special standing committee meeting held at Civic Centre. The additional commissioner said that the corporation would focus on expediting 17 revenue generating and property redevelopment projects to pull the troubled civic body out of debt and also new major infrastructure projects were being taken up. “We want to focus on systemic changes in existing taxes, increasing the tax net and tightening the system,” the official added. The budget also pleads the House of councillors to make alternative arrangements like seeking a special grant or long term low interest loan. “We are confident that when the remunerative projects start being realised, we shall be able to repay such loans,” the budget states. Many of the redevelopment projects, such as Azadpur, Rohini, Minto Road and Bungalow Road staff quarter and Town Hall redevelopment, have remained pending from several years and have been recycled in budget speeches by several successive corporation functionaries. The north corporation owns several prime properties but has so far been unable to use them for revenue generation. The reserve price for Azadpur and Model town projects alone is over Rs 15,392 crore. The budgetary proposals claim that pandemic has severely impacted its revenue sources and Delhi government has released only Rs 212.5 crore out of the provision of Rs 850 crore. Another 106.2 crore has been deducted for loan recovery. The budget states that the process has been started for 17 multi-level car parking projects that will create additional space for 12,915 vehicles. Following the loan repayment, which now accounts for staggering 27.7% of budgetary expenditure, the sanitation department has received 20.5% budget allocation. The corporation intends to soon hire private concessionaires for collecting and disposing municipal waste from Karol Bagh, City SP and Narela zones and also complete the process for privatising the toilet block maintenance. Some of the new ideas proposed by the additional commissioner include setting up electric charging stations at 127 spots, redevelopment of old disused toilet complexes as coffee houses, cyber cafes; creating a dog body incinerator and creation of five new mini-forests. The civic body has also set up an annual target of in-house generation of 15.4 lakh units of solar power. On being asked about the estimated time it would take to pull out the corporation from its financial mess, the additional commissioner said: “No one knows how much time it may take, but we will make all possible efforts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/over-a-third-of-north-delhi-corporation-budget-now-based-on-loans-no-new-taxes/articleshow/79635081.cms||Paras Singh
December 9, 2020||Surat||10-yr-old girl killed in Surat after she resisted man’s attempt to rape||SURAT: A 10-year-old girl was allegedly murdered after she resisted a rape attempt by a 24-year-old man in Pandesara area on Monday. On Tuesday, police nabbed the accused, Dinesh Baisane, a native of Amalner in Maharashtra and living in Prem Nagar locality of Pandesara. Baisane, who was acquainted with her family, lured the girl when she was playing near her uncle’s house by offering to buy her a vada paav. He then took her to an isolated spot where started sexually assaulting her. When the girl shouted for help, Baisane picked up a brick and hit her on the head. She died of serious head injuries, said police. Baisane was nabbed from his house by a team of cops that was searching for the girl after her parents approached police at around 7:30pm. Police identified Baisane with the help of locals and CCTV footage of the shop where he took the minor to buy vada pav. Police also got a panel postmortem done to find out exact details about injuries to the minor. She has minor outer injuries near the private part, doctors informed. The gir’s parents are workers in local units. While going to work, her father used to drop his 15-year-old son and daughter at his brother’s house in Prem Nagar. Baisane lives in the same locality and he was the friend of the girl’s uncle. “We tried to locate the girl as soon as the family informed us. The accused was identified and detained shortly, but he had already killed the girl,” said a police officer. Baisane told police that he was asked to kill the girl by Anand, a distant relative of her father. Police have detained Anand but police are yet to confirm his involvement in the crime. After the murder, Baisane and Anand also consumed liquor together. Baisane even tried to misguide police about his age and claimed that he was 17 years old. However, investigation revealed his real age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/10-yr-old-girl-killed-for-resisting-sexual-assault/articleshow/79630529.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Vadodara||Health survey to cover entire Vadodara||VADODARA: Unprecedented times require unprecedented measures and the ongoing pandemic is no exception. Covid-19 has forced the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to take up the exercise of reaching out to each household in the city repeatedly to see if anyone was ill there with symptoms like Covid-19. While the task was initially being handled primarily by the health department and the focus was on areas surrounding those houses where cases were detected. As the pandemic tightened its noose around the city, the VMC decided to expand the criteria of its surveys and cover the entire population of the city. “The idea is to visit each and every home in the city and contact people there to ascertain if there were people there with illnesses similar to Covid-19. The exercise also gives us a fair idea of how critical the situation is. Broadly speaking, if there are a lot of cases of ailments like fever or acute respiratory illness there is a reason to worry. These cases are referred for tests,” said an official. The civic body has roped in teachers too for conducting the survey as it needed manpower to ensure that the entire city was covered in a short time repeatedly. Each team comprises of a health worker and a teacher. So far, fourteen rounds of surveys have been conducted since July. These have either conducted with a gap of one week to 20 days depending on the situation in the city. While the data from the surveys may not be exact, it gives a fair idea of the situation. Also, if the teams are in touch with people repeatedly, they can come to know of any development that is out of place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/health-survey-to-cover-entire-vadodara/articleshow/79630319.cms||---
December 9, 2020||World||Trump hails vaccine 'miracle', with millions of doses soon||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump celebrated the expected approval of the first US vaccine for the coronavirus as the White House worked to instill confidence in the massive distribution effort that will largely be executed by President-elect Joe Biden. Trump on Tuesday said the expected approvals are coming before most people thought possible. “They say it's somewhat of a miracle and I think that's true," he declared. Trump led Tuesday's White House event celebrating “Operation Warp Speed,” his administration's effort to produce and distribute safe and effective vaccines for Covid-19. The first vaccine, from drugmaker Pfizer, is expected to receive endorsement by a panel of Food and Drug Administration advisers as soon as this week, with delivery of 100 million doses — enough for 50 million Americans — expected in coming months. “Every American who wants the vaccine will be able to get the vaccine and we think by spring we're going to be in a position nobody would have believed possible just a few months ago,” Trump said. Pfizer developed its vaccine outside of “Operation Warp Speed,” but is partnering with the federal government on manufacturing and distribution. England began its first vaccinations earlier Tuesday, to great fanfare, as the world mounts its fight against the pandemic that has killed more than 285,000 Americans and some 1.5 million people worldwide. Trump and his aides hope to tamp down scepticism among some Americans about the vaccines and help build the outgoing Republican president's legacy. However, Trump's administration was also facing new scrutiny Tuesday after failing to lock in a chance to buy millions of additional doses of Pfizer's vaccine, which has been shown to be highly effective against Covid-19. That decision could delay the delivery of a second batch of doses until Pfizer fulfills other international contracts. Trump used Tuesday's event to sign an executive order in which the secretary of Health and Human Services is directed to ensure that Americans have priority access to the vaccine. A senior administration official said the order would restrict the federal government from delivering doses to other nations until there is excess supply to meet domestic demand, but it was not immediately clear what the practical impact would be. Tuesday's “Operation Warp Speed” event featured Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and a host of government experts, state leaders and business executives, as the White House looked to explain that the vaccine is safe and lay out the administration's plans to bring it to the American people. But officials from Biden's transition team, which will oversee the bulk of the largest vaccination program in the nation's history once he takes office on January 20, were not invited. Biden, who was rolling out his senior health team on Tuesday, said last week that in meetings with Trump administration officials his aides have discovered that “there's no detailed plan that we've seen” for how to get the vaccines out of containers, into syringes and then into people's arms. Trump administration officials insist that such plans have been developed, with the bulk of the work falling to states and local governments to ensure their most vulnerable populations are vaccinated first. In all, about 50,000 vaccination sites are enrolled in the government's distribution system. But career officials insisted it was still too early to declare victory. “We don't want to get out in front of ourselves,” said Army Gen. Gustave Perna, responsible for overseeing the logistical and distribution efforts. "As my father used to say, 'You can only spike the football when you're in the end zone.' Well, what is the end zone described to us here? Shots in arms.” Speaking in Wilmington, Delaware, Biden promised to distribute “100 million shots in the first 100 days" of his administration — roughly on pace with Trump's projections for vaccination. Trump, meanwhile, defended his decision to hold indoor holiday parties at the White House this December, though they have attracted hundreds of largely mask-less supporters contrary to his administration's warnings that the American public should avoid such settings. “Well, they're Christmas parties," he told reporters on Tuesday. Though Trump was taking credit for the pace of vaccine development, much of the groundwork was laid over the past decade, amid new research into messenger RNA, or mRNA, vaccines — of the sort developed by both Pfizer and Moderna. “The speed is a reflection of years of work that went before,” Dr Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, told The Associated Press this month. “That's what the public has to understand.” Fauci, who will serve as a chief scientific adviser to Biden's administration, appeared virtually at the president-elect's event, but did not attend the White House summit. The White House did include early clips of Fauci predicting a longer development time for the vaccines in a round-up of skeptics of Trump's timetable. The Trump administration insists that between the Pfizer vaccine, the vaccine from Moderna and others in the pipeline, the US will be able to accommodate any American who wants to be vaccinated by the end of the second quarter of 2021. The Food and Drug Administration's panel of outside vaccine experts is to meet Thursday to conduct a final review of the Pfizer vaccine, and it will meet later this month on the Moderna version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-hails-vaccine-miracle-with-millions-of-doses-soon/articleshow/79635136.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||No question of scrapping MSP system: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said the new agricultural laws implemented in the country by the Narendra Modi government are farmerfriendly and will increase their income. “Procurement on MSP will continue, there is no question of scrapping MSP system. Agricultural produce mandis will also continue to function as before. Besides, farmers will benefit from the competitive system as they get a chance to sell their crops outside the mandis also under the new law,” Chouhan said even as the Bharat bandh called by farmers impacted parts of the state. Even the grain mandi of Harda, hometown of agriculture minister Kamal Patel, was closed on Tuesday. There was no impact of the bandh in Bhopal or Indore, but markets in Gwalior — where AAP activists demonstrated at the bungalow of Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar — were shut in the first half of the day. ‘Farmers in MP know agri laws benefits’In Malwa-Nimar region, despite Cong leaders participating in the agitation, major commercial establishments and markets remained open. In Khargone, however, major markets were shut. The bandh had some impact in Mandsaur, Dewas, Jhabua, Khandwa, Ratlam and Ujjain.CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said farmers in MP know there is no need to agitate, pointing out that the state has the highest agricultural growth rate. “The farmers here understand that all three new agricultural laws are beneficial for them and they are totally reassured. Many people are spreading misconceptions, but their efforts will not succeed,” CM said, adding that the Manmohan Singh government was in favour of amending APMC Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-question-of-scrapping-msp-system-madhya-pradesh-cm/articleshow/79635165.cms||---
December 9, 2020||World||Trump says he is hopeful of continuing as US president||WASHINGTON: Days before the official certification of the November 3 US presidential elections in favour of his Democratic opponent Joe Biden, President Donald Trump claimed that he would continue to hold the position as he has won the elections. Trump has been making unsubstantiated claims about widespread voter fraud and electoral malpractice in the presidential polls. State election officials and the media have denied such any such fraud. Election officials have declared Biden as the President-elect as he received more than the required 270 of the 538 electoral college votes. The elections are officially scheduled to be certified next week. However, Trump is continuing his legal efforts to upend Biden's victory. He has allowed the official start of Biden's transition to power but has not yet conceded defeat. The Trump campaign has filed multiple lawsuits in several states, most of whom have been dismissed so far. “Hopefully the next administration will be the Trump administration, a continuation -- which has led us to the highest stock markets we've ever had, the best employment numbers we've ever had, a rebuilt military,” Trump told reporters at the White House on Tuesday during a vaccine summit. Trump was responding to a question on why he did not invite members of the Biden transition team to the meeting, which deliberated on his plans to distribute COVID-19 vaccine in the US. “We're going to have to see who the next administration is -- because we won in those swing states, and there was terrible things that went on. So we're going to have to see who the next administration is. But whichever the next administration is, will really benefit by what we've been able to do with this incredible science, the doctors -- all of the people that came up -- the lab technicians. The work that's been done is incredible, and it will be incredible for the next administration,” he said. "And hopefully the next administration will be the Trump administration, because you can't steal hundreds of thousands of votes. You can't have fraud and deception and all of the things that they did, and then slightly win a swing state. And you just have to look at the numbers. Look at what's been on tape. Look at all the corruption. And we'll see. You can't win an election like that,” the president said. Trump said because of the "great work" he did, he was "rewarded" with a victory. “Now, let's see whether or not somebody has the courage -- whether it's a legislator or legislatures, or whether it's a justice of the Supreme Court or a number of justices of the Supreme Court. Let's see if they have the courage to do what everybody in this country knows is right,” he said. The president said he has received almost 75 million votes, the highest number of votes in the history of the country for a sitting president, which is 12 million more than the 63 million he received four years ago. "President (Barack) Obama received three million less in his second term, and he won easily. I received 12 million more, which, by the way, is a record. Twelve million more...If somebody has the courage, I know who the next administration will be. I'll tell you what: Life will be much easier for this country because of what we've done right now and because of a lot of the people in this room. The job you've done on the vaccine, together with a lot of others, has been a modern-day miracle, and it's really been acknowledged as such," Trump said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-he-is-hopeful-of-continuing-as-us-president/articleshow/79635187.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||RAT accounts for only 40% of all Covid tests in Bhopal||BHOPAL: On a daily average, the number of rapid antigen tests (RAT) outnumber the higher efficacy real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests in the state capital. However, an accumulated testing pattern, since it began in February, reveals that rapid antigen tests account for only about 40% of the 4.33 lakh Covid-19 tests carried out in Bhopal. Going by health department data, government-run laboratories in Bhopal — AIIMS, Gandhi Medical College and BMHRC put together — have carried out 44.6% of all Covid-19 tests in the state capital. 1.81 lakh Covid tests have been carried out through the rapid antigen test. As per the advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research, a person who tests negative in the rapid test may not be a true negative and should be tested again via RT-PCR. The main issue with rapid antigen test has been its efficacy. Earlier in April, the guidelines for rapid test were issued. The advisory mentioned that as a matter of precaution, all symptomatic ILI persons should be advised home quarantine for 14 days. At facility level, symptomatic ILI individuals are to be tested using rapid antibody test. On the other hand, RT-PCR, allows the use of RNA as a template and is more reliable. Since rapid test was made available, the number of RT-PCR tests in the state capital have declined. On an average, about 500 RT-PCR tests are carried out per day against 1,500 rapid antigen tests. The quality and purity of the RNA template is essential for the success of RT-PCR. It far overweighs the rapid antigen test, according to experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rat-accounts-for-only-40-of-all-covid-tests-in-bhopal/articleshow/79635216.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19: Over 2 lakh cured; recoveries outnumber new cases in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The count of people recovering from Covid-19 in the state crossed the 2 lakh mark on Tuesday as the number of people recovering from the disease outnumbered the number of people testing positive. A total 1,497 people recovered from the infection and were discharged from hospitals. With these people recovering, the count of people recovering from Covid-19 reached 2,00,664. The count of corona patients in the state reached 2,17,302 on Tuesday as 1,345 new cases were reported. Barring Monday, more people had recovered from Covid-19 than those tested positive in the past seven days. On Monday, more new cases were found than the number of people who recovered from the disease. As many as 11 deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 increased to 3,358 in the state. Districts from which these deaths were reported include Indore where five deaths were reported, Bhopal where two deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Khargone, Ratlam, Raisen and Panna districts. On Tuesday, new cases were reported from 50 of the 52 districts of the state. It were only Bhind and Mandla districts where no new case was found on Tuesday. And cases were reported in double figures from 22 districts of the state. Districts where maximum cases were reported include Indore where 516 cases were reported, Bhopal where 315 new cases were reported, Jabalpur where 49 cases were reported and Gwalior where 43 new cases were reported. Of the 29,985 samples that were tested on Tuesday, a total 1,345 people tested positive. Thus, the overall positivity rate—number of people testing positive out of every 100 samples tested—for Tuesday stood at 4.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-over-2-lakh-cured-recoveries-outnumber-new-cases-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79635219.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Kochi||Covid fails to deter voters in Kerala, 72.67% polling in first phase||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first phase of local body polls in five districts of the state saw heavy polling despite fears that the Covid-19 pandemic will affect the voter turnout. The phase saw 72.67% polling, with Alappuzha recording the highest turnout at 77.23% and Thiruvananthapuram the lowest at 69.76%. Kollam recorded 73.41% polling, Pathanamthitta 69.70% and Idukki 74.56%. However, the turnout is low when compared to 2015. Thiruvananthapuram had recorded 71.9% polling then, Kollam 74.9%, Pathanamthitta 72.5%, Alappuzha 79.7% and Idukki 79.7%. Like in the previous elections, the voting percentage was low in Thiruvananthapuram corporation at 59.73% (62.9% in 2015) and Kollam corporation at 66.06% (69.9% in 2015). The election also saw Covid-19 patients exercising their franchise in full protective gear. Four patients in Kottarakara and one person in quarantine in Thiruvananthapuram were among those who cast their votes. However, many prominent persons kept off polling this time due to health reasons. For the first time in his life, former chief minister and administrative reforms commission chairman V S Achuthanandan did not cast his vote. He and his family members had their votes in Punnapra, Alappuzha but he could not travel due to health reasons. His son V A Arun Kumar said they had made a request for a postal ballot with the state election commission but rules allowed postal ballots only to polling officials, Covid patients and those in quarantine. "He has never missed his vote since 1951. Doctors had objected to his travel to Alappuzha," he said. Former chief minister A K Antony, who has been advised rest in New Delhi after Covid-19 infection, was another notable absentee. Senior CPM leader K R Gowri also did not vote due to ill health while Kerala Congress leader and Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities chairman R Balakrishna Pillai was another absentee. All parties hopeful of winMeanwhile, all three major political parties are hopeful of win. The CPM said the controversies would not have any impact on the election. "The controversies are being created by those with specific interests. It will not have any impact,’’ CPM politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala predicted a UDF sweep. "There is a UDF wave, which is evident in the first phase of the poll. People have voted against a government caught for corruption and loot,’’ he said. The BJP said the fight in the state was between the party and CPM. Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who cast his vote in Thiruvananthapuram, said the Congress had lost its relevance. "They are going to face the biggest defeat, especially in the Christian-dominated areas. The CPM has become the agents of black money and people are going to give a fitting reply to them,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-fails-to-deter-voters-in-kerala-72-67-polling-in-first-phase/articleshow/79635225.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||10 lakh Ayushman cards to be made in Bhopal||BHOPAL: District collector Avinash Lavania has asked the officials of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), zila panchayat and women & child development department to expedite the process of making Ayushman cards so that all eligible persons could be covered under the scheme. Addressing district officials at the time-limit (TL) meeting, Lavania said that 10 lakh Ayushman cards have to be made in Bhopal district for which camps are being organised in both urban and rural areas. Below Poverty Line cardholders and persons covered under welfare schemes of the government meant for poor sections of the society are eligible for cards under the scheme, which enables them to get medical treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh free of cost. The collector further directed that a list of schools, where toilets have been constructed, should be dispatched to the PHE department for provision of water. Tap will be provided in those schools under the “Tap Water” scheme. He said all applications for lease renewal should be obtained from the lessee of mines in the district whose lease has to be renewed and royalty should be deposited in the exchequer. Lavania further directed that a cleanliness campaign should be undertaken in the urban areas of the district and targets should be fixed every day and everyone involved should work to meet those targets.Special attention should be paid to cleanliness of markets and garbage collection system at night should be strengthened, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/10-lakh-ayushman-cards-to-be-made-in-bhopal/articleshow/79635232.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Surat||Surat: Drug addict girls come out of the shadows, seek help||SURAT: Just ahead of Diwali, two teens got down from an auto rickshaw near Gandhi Baug, spent couple of minutes on road pretending as if they had come for a hangout. After sensing that they were followed by none, they walk fast towards Parivartan Vyasan Mukti Kendra (PVMK), a de-addiction centre. PVMK’s counsellor instantly recognised that the steps walking towards the centre were that of drug addicts, albeit teenage girls. The idea of ‘drugs’ and ‘drug addiction’ usually creates an image of a man lying on a pavement oblivious to the world or rich teenage boys enjoying expensive shots of drugs with huge amounts of cash at their disposal. But in the past couple of months as many as five different groups of teenage college-enrolled girls and young women, some of them facing severe withdrawal symptoms, have approached PVMK in Surat seeking help. “We are oldest de-addiction centre in the city. So, people directly approaching us for treatment is routine for us. But for the first time in my career, I am seeing young girls coming forward for de-addiction. It made me realise how deep-rooted the drug network is,” said Vinay Solanki, who works as project director at PVMK for 15 years now. Some of these teens had began with smoking weed with classmates and attending hookah parties before graduating to mephedrone persuaded by their peer, male classmates or love interests for whom doing drugs is cool and in fashion. But it is not just because of severe withdrawal symptoms that the former addicts are approaching the de-addiction centre. The centre is being approached even for medicines – a type of drug – that is provided to them for treatment. “Most of the drug-addicts come to us for medicines. Due to non-availability of drugs, they are finding a succour in medicines that we provide to deal with the withdrawal symptoms,” said Solanki. “After a series of successful seizures, we have launched the ‘No Drugs in Surat’ programme. We expect that victims of drug abuse will come forward and we will help them to get out of the clutches of drugs,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. “As drugs are not available easily in the city, drug addicts will go to de-addiction centres searching for medicines that contain alternative drugs,” said Tomar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/drug-addict-girls-come-out-of-the-shadows-seek-help/articleshow/79630507.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
December 9, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: December fog-smoke combo raises viral concerns in Covid season||KOLKATA: The changing season, fluctuating temperature, fog and the rising pollution could cause a number of health issues if we do not take precautionary measures, alert experts. From viral influenza and mosquito-borne diseases to respiratory tract infection, experts said there are many other seasonal ailments on the prowl apart from Covid. “With winter setting in we have started getting sporadic cases of seasonal influenza. People have to be careful as this is also the season for other viral infections like rhino, adenovirus and syncytial, which is a respiratory virus,” said microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury. With the temperature refusing to plunge, mosquitoes still continue to pose threat for dengue. Experts, though, said number of dengue cases is lower this year. “In addition to dengue, we are also getting cases of chikunguniya, malaria and scrub typhus. However, we are not seeing many H1N1 cases so far,” said Debkishore Gupta, infectious diseases control specialist. With arrival of winter, pollution level has also gone up and doctors apprehend further escalation in number of respiratory diseases like asthma and COPD. They said that while people who already have bad lung conditions will be the most susceptible, even healthy people could be affected by the fluctuating temperature and pollution. “This season is bad from health angle on two basic things. One is the temperature fluctuation and the other is the pollution. The dense smog in the morning can worsen the lung condition of patients with COPD while the fluctuating mercury makes one susceptible to respiratory tract infection,” said pulmonologist Dhiman Ganguly. With pollution level higher in early mornings, doctors said people with ailments like COPD and asthma should wait for the sun to rise if they want to go on morning walk. The Met office has, meanwhile, said the thick fog in the morning has been caused by a combination of factors — a variable wind system with a bit of both the dry and chill northwesterly and the hot and humid easterly wind, low wind speed and moisture being injected into the land from the Bay of Bengal. “The condition could get a little better on Wednesday. But we expect thick fog on Thursday and Friday reducing visibility in early morning,” said GK Das, director (weather) at RMC, Kolkata. According to Met office, at present there is high pressure zone over the Bay and in the coastal area and a circulation over Jharkhand. These two systems will also not let the mercury go down. Minimum temperature will refuse to go down beyond 17 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/december-fog-smoke-combo-raises-viral-concerns-in-covid-season/articleshow/79631357.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 9, 2020||Vadodara||After six years, vultures spotted in Pavi Jetpur||VADODARA: The winged scavengers, it seems, are making a comeback to the forests of Chhota Udepur. In a rare sight, the forest officials and two bird watchers spotted a long-billed vulture near Makhaniya Parvat in Pavi Jetpur on Sunday. The vulture was flying around when the trio spotted and photographed it. “It was after six years that the long-billed vulture had been spotted at this place. These birds always move in groups so there is a possibility of more vultures having settled in this area,” said Vanraj Solanki, range forest officer (RFO), Pavi Jetpur, who was accompanied by Kartik Upadhyay and assistant professor Ranjitsinh Devkar, who teaches zoology at M S University. “It is a good sign as the vultures seem to be getting enough food in the forests here. We are now trying to track down the other vultures,” Solanki told TOI. According to the forest officials, the spot around Makhaniya Parvat behind Sukhi Dam used to be the home to many vultures. “As per the 2006 census by the Gujarat Ecological Education and Research Foundation (GEER), 24 vultures were spotted near Sukhi Dam,” Solanki said. “But the numbers have been dwindling since then. In 2014, we spotted a long-billed vulture in this area. But after that we couldn’t find a single vulture during our every annual visit at Makhaniya parvat. We usually visit this spot during winters as the vultures nest,” said Upadhyay. When asked the reasons behind the drop in the number of vultures in the region, Solanki said, “There are many reasons including the use of diclofenac drug administered cattle. When vultures consume dead cattle, this drug enters their body causing their death. Also, not many locals now dispose dead livestock in open causing dearth of food for these scavengers,” Solanki added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-six-years-vultures-spotted-in-pavi-jetpur/articleshow/79630304.cms||Tushar Tere
December 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana among top 10 states in number of Covid-19 deaths, new cases||CHANDIGARH: Haryana is among the top 10 states and Union territories (UTs) of the country which together account for 76% of total deaths due to Covid-19 and 76% of the total cases too in the country. However, good news is that Haryana is also among the 10 states and UTs that have 81% of all the recovered cases of Covid-19. It has been revealed in the official data released by the Union health and family welfare ministry on Monday. As per the data, 76.20% of the new cases are from 10 states and UTs in which Kerala has reported the highest daily new cases at 4,777, Maharashtra is at number two with 4,757 new cases and West Bengal at third place with 3,143 new cases. Haryana is at seventh place with 1,498 cases. As per the report, it was single day data procured from all states in 24 hours’ time on December 6. As far as fatalities are concerned, 391 deaths were reported on Sunday in which top 10 states and UTs account for 75.07% of new deaths. While Delhi saw the maximum casualties of 69, West Bengal and Maharashtra followed with 46 and 40 daily deaths. Haryana was at number six with 24 deaths on that day. Although Haryana is a small state, the data revealed that its casualty figures were equal to much larger state, Uttar Pradesh. However, has been ranked seventh among the 10 states that have registered 81.20% new recovered cases in the entire country. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries at 7,486, followed by Kerala with 5,217 new recoveries and Delhi registered 4,622 new recoveries. Haryana is at seventh place with 1,887 recoveries in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-among-top-10-states-in-number-of-deaths-new-cases/articleshow/79632956.cms||Ajay Sura
December 9, 2020||Bhopal||Woman hangs self in Bhopal's Awadhpuri||BHOPAL: A 26-year-old married woman, who had attempted suicide by hanging herself at her home in Awadhpuri on November 28, succumbed to her injuries on Monday night while undergoing treatment at a hospital. SHO (SI) Vijay Kumar Tripathi said, that deceased Kavita Sharma, was the resident of BDA Colony. Exact reason behind the extreme step has not been ascertained yet and things would be clear after recording the statements of family members. Meanwhile in another case, a 32–year-old differently abled man, committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train in Shahpura on Monday afternoon. No suicide note was recovered from the spot, but cops suspect that he was in depression due to his health problems. Investigating Officer SI Rinku Jatav said, cops received information on Dial-100 from railway authorities on Monday around 2 pm, that an unidentified man’s dead body was lying on the railway tracks near Bawadia Kalan bridge in Shahpura. The deceased was identified as Narendra Rajput, he was a daily wager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/woman-hangs-self-in-bhopals-awadhpuri/articleshow/79635248.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt, groups plan SC fight over BBMP||BENGALURU: The state government’s decision to press ahead with plans to introduce a separate law for Bengaluru’s civic administration and seek deferment of the BBMP polls has set the stage for a prolonged legal battle. Recently, the Karnataka high court directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to hold the civic polls in February. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said that the government would file an appeal in the court in a few days and it would ensure that the BBMP Bill was passed in the winter session of the legislature. Many civil-society organisations, including Daksh and Janagraha, have criticised the government’s stand and plan to approach the apex court to halt the bill. “The draft BBMP bill was finalised without inputs from citizens. Neither the government nor the joint select house committee bothered to hold public consultations. So, we have decided to challenge this bill in the court,” said Daksh co-founder Harish Narasappa. But Madhuswamy said that public feedback was sought online and many people had sent suggestions. The bill envisages a separate law to govern Bengaluru. Apart from increasing the number of municipal wards from 198 to 243, it proposes that two mayors, instead of one, should serve equal tenures and there should be 15 zonal commissioners to administer different parts of the city with limited autonomy. The zonal commissioners will report to a chief commissioner. The joint select committee headed by BJP legislator S Raghu has scrutinised the bill is expected to submit a report to assembly speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Wednesday, following which the government will table the bill in the house. “We are committed to holding the BBMP polls. But it is necessary that civic wards are reorganised in accordance with the present constitution of the city. If we conduct polls with 198 wards, then we cannot change them for the next five years. This is the best time to increase the number of wards and modify the city administration. It may take a few more months, but the implementation of the BBMP Bill will do the justice to the city. We will convince the Supreme Court on these points,” Madhuswamy said. Ideally, the polls should have been conducted before September 10, when the BBMP council’s five-year term ended. Covid-19 delayed the elections. Petitions filed in the high court said that there should not be further delay. The SEC was among the petitioners, who finally received a favourable ruling. “There is a constitutional obligation to conduct polls for civic bodies and they cannot be postponed on any pretext. The proposed BBMP bill was drafted after the BBMP council’s term ended and therefore, it cannot be used as a reason to defer the polls,” said KN Phanindra, a senior counsel who appeared for the SEC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-groups-plan-sc-fight-over-bbmp/articleshow/79635240.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
December 9, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Polling officer suspended for wearing mask with party symbol||KOLLAM: A woman polling officer who reported for election duty at a polling station in Kottankara panchayat wearing a mask printed with CPM’s election symbol has been suspended from service. K Saraswathi, senior grade PD teacher, at KGV UP School, Elampalloor, was suspended from service on the basis of an enquiry report submitted by sub-collector Sikha Surendran. Saraswathi was the third polling officer at the first polling station in the ward no. 4 of the panchayat. Saraswathi reported for poll duty wearing a mask printed with the election symbol of CPM. As UDF and BJP representatives raised complaint, the matter was brought to the notice of the district collector. Following this, she was asked to leave the polling station and relieved of the duty. The incident reported from the polling station at the Velankonam Johns cashew factory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-polling-officer-suspended-for-wearing-mask-with-party-symbol/articleshow/79635250.cms||---
December 9, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab records 30 deaths, 500 fresh cases||Chandigarh: As many as 30 more people lost their lives due to Covid while 500 fresh cases surfaced in Punjab on Tuesday. The state’s overall tally of cases now stands at 1,57,331 while 4,964 people have succumbed to the virus. The new cases were reported in Ludhiana (80), Mohali (70), Amritsar (66), Patiala (46), Bathinda (40), Pathankot (32), Jalandhar (29), Hoshiarpur (25), Kapurthala (24), Gurdaspur (18), Fazilka (15), Ropar (14), Faridkot (10), Fatehgarh Sahib and Mana (7 each), Ferozepur (4) and Sangrur (2). Of 30 deaths, four each were reported in Patiala, Mohali, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur, three in Jalandhar, two each in Barnala, Fazilka, Barnala and Pathankot and one each in Fatehgarh Sahib, Amritsar, Bathinda, Gurdaspur and Ropar. Total Summary till Date Total suspected cases | 3395729 Total patients tested positive | 157,331 Cured | 145,093 Total deaths | 4,964 Active cases | 7,274||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-records-30-deaths-500-fresh-cases/articleshow/79632975.cms||---
