December 10, 2020||Business||IndiGo to reach 80% of normal domestic capacity soon||SYDNEY: India’s biggest airline, IndiGo, expects to reach 80% of usual domestic capacity by the end of the month but international capacity is running at just a fifth of normal levels because of the pandemic, its chief executive said on Wednesday. The airline hopes to reach 100% of normal domestic capacity by early next year and 100% of its usual international capacity by the end of 2021, chief executive Ronojoy Dutta said at a CAPA Centre for Aviation event. The low-cost airline, owned by Interglobe Aviation Ltd, reported last month a loss of Rs 1,195 crore ($162.45 million) in the second quarter ended September 30 as pandemic curbs dented its operations. IndiGo said at the time it expected third-quarter capacity to be around 60% of period a year earlier. But the government soon after lifted its domestic capacity cap to 70% and again last week to 80%. International flights are restricted and being run as charter operations. In June, IndiGo said it would cut costs of up to Rs 4,000 crore and speed the return of older planes to leasing firms in a bid to cushion the pandemic’s hit to business. The airline said it would continue to take delivery of newer, cost-efficient Airbus SE A320neo planes at a time when many carriers have halted deliveries to cut costs. “We haven’t slowed down our deliveries at all and don’t intend to,” chief commercial officer Willy Boulter said on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indigo-to-reach-80-of-normal-domestic-capacity-soon/articleshow/79649902.cms||---
December 10, 2020||World||Byelections for vacant seats if opposition resigns, Pakistan PM says||ISLAMABAD: As the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an anti-government alliance of 11 opposition parties, announced its members would resign en masse from the national and provincial assemblies in an attempt to remove the incumbent government, Prime Minister Imran Khan welcomed the move, saying byelections would be held for all vacant seats. A day earlier, the PDM had met in Islamabad to deliberate on the issue of resigning from the federal and provincial assemblies. The meeting was attended via video link by former PM Nawaz Sharif from London and ex-president Asif Ali Zardari from the southern port city of Karachi. The alliance had announced that all lawmakers belonging to its constituent parties would submit their resignations from the national and provincial assemblies to their respective party chiefs by December 31. The opposition alliance is demanding the resignation of the PM and a fresh free and fair election. “The decision to resign from the assemblies en masse was made unanimously by constituent parties of the PDM,” Maulana Fazlur Rehman, the Jamiat-Ulema-e-Islam chief and PDM president, said at a press conference, promising that the opposition would not disappoint the nation. “I am willing to speak with the opposition on everything except giving them an NRO,” the PM said following the PDM press conference. “They can only use constitutional means to remove me,” he added. The acronym NRO refers to the National Reconciliation Order under which Benazir Bhutto (and many other) were able to return to Pakistan from exile as cases against them were dropped. The term is now commonly used to describe an attempt to use an ordinance to allow someone to escape the legal process. “If the opposition resigns from parliament, the government will go ahead with byelections on the vacant seats,” PM Khan said. However, Khan said, whenever the government engages with the opposition, everything boils down to their corruption cases. On the PM’s dialogue offer, Maulana Fazl said, “Now he (Imran Khan) is asking for NRO but we will not give it to him. The government had been shaken by the PDM’s series of rallies and now it only needs a final push to collapse.” He reiterated that the PDM would hold its historical rally in Lahore on December 13 and warned the ruling Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) government against creating any hurdles for the opposition parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/byelections-for-vacant-seats-if-opposition-resigns-pakistan-pm-says/articleshow/79649904.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BTM Layout bus terminal ready, awaits inauguration||BENGALURU: Passengers at BTM Layout could soon board buses from a brand-new terminal that comes with a host of features. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has completed the much-delayed bus terminal, which was planned in 2013 at a cost of Rs 67 crore under the erstwhile Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) funds. The ground-plus-four floor terminal on 2.5 acres of land near Inner Ring Road is now awaiting inauguration. “The new terminal can accommodate 18 buses at the same time. It will have basement parking facilities for passengers to leave behind their vehicles. The space has room for 200 cars and 100 bikes,” said a BMTC official. The terminal will have toilets, waiting areas, women’s lounges, bays or platforms to board buses and retail shops. The shopping complex at the terminal is expected to generate some revenue for BMTC. The terminal is a pet project of former transport minister and BTM Layout MLA Ramalinga Reddy. Many passengers welcomed the move. “It has increased seating space and waiting areas. The facility will help reduce congestion on Ring Road and Hosur Road. Once operational, parking facilities at the terminal will help Metro passengers,” said Kumar S, who travels to BTM Layout frequently. “This terminal is already delayed. They should start the facility at the earliest,” he added. However, the terminal will not have a depot for cleaning, maintenance and servicing of buses. A Vidyashankar, president of a joint action committee of 10 resident welfare associations at BTM Layout, said: “The bus terminus will be convenient for residents who use public transport. This was our long-pending demand. We are also expecting some private IT establishments and government ones to function here. This will be helpful for Metro passengers, who can park their vehicles once the Silk Board Metro station is operational.” BMTC recently invited a tender from individuals, agencies and companies to run and maintain commercial and office spaces available at the BTM Layout bus terminus for 12 years. According to a BMTC tender document, there will be a 10% annual escalation on licence fee every year. The security deposit is equivalent to six-month rental and the selected bidder is permitted to sublet the allotted premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/btm-layout-bus-terminal-ready-awaits-inauguration/articleshow/79649557.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Para-champ, activist bag Helen Keller awards||BENGALURU: Two persons from Karnataka — a para-badminton champion and a transgender-activist — have been selected for this year’s NCPEDP Mindtree Helen Keller Awards in recognition of their work and achievements among the disabled. Selected from over 104 applicants from 16 states and entries from overseas, the 2020 edition of the awards also has a Bengaluru-based NGO for women with disabilities clinch the honour. The annual awards by National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) celebrate and recognise individuals and organisations working towards promoting employment of persons with disabilities. Para-badminton starAmmu Mohan from Ulsoor, has been selected for her star performance at the international para-badminton arena, representing India and for her motivating work among people with disabilities in the city and rest of Karnataka. A victim of polio, Ammu works as an IT professional in Bengaluru. She got into sports to overcome the grief of losing her father in 2013. Ammu started with wheelchair tennis before finding her strength in para-badminton. “In 2015, I realised badminton was the right game for my kind of disability. Motivated by friends and colleagues, I began intense training and won my first gold medal at the national para-badmintion event held in Bengaluru the same year,” said the 30-year-old, who then forayed into international events, representing the country. The Bengalurean travelled to different parts of the globe and won over 30 medals in the sport, including a bronze at the para-badminton international championship in Denmark in October 2018. “Apart from badminton, I do my bit to encourage others with disabilities to rise above odds and pursue their passion,” added Ammu. She was selected for the award under the ‘Role Model Persons with Disabilities’ category. Gender rights & struggleKiran Nayak B was born a woman. Disabled due to polio, Kiran was ostracised from his community at his village in Warangal, Telangana after he expressed his desire to change his gender. “I come from a community where child marriages and forced wedlocks are a norm. So, I had to run for my life,” said the 34-year-old, reminiscing the time when some Bengaluru-based activists brought him to the city to start life afresh. Kiran set up Karnataka Vikalachetanara Samsthe in Chikkaballapura, which works for the disabled. “My life was a struggle, which I overcame sitting on a wheelchair. There are hundreds like me who need that hand to lift them up. I’m doing what I can to help. My focus is on transgender people,” he added. Kiran has been providing counselling and has helped hundreds of people with disability and those who have undergone gender change in Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh find jobs. He has bagged the award under the same category as Ammu. NGO empowering womenThe 2020 awards for organisations working for the welfare of the disabled went to four entities, including one from Bengaluru — Rehabilitation Aids Workshop by Women With Disability (RAWWD). For 20 years, RAWWD has been working with disabled women, helping them train in making prosthetics and orthotics equipment for patients. “We have our unit on Old Airport Road near Manipal Hospital, which is operated mostly by women with disabilities. RAWWD has reached out to over 40,000 persons with disabilities since its inception in Bengaluru,” said Antoinette Lopez, board member and trustee of RAWWD. The NCPEDP Mindtree Helen Keller Awards 2020 will be a virtual event and the awards will be given away on Thursday, which is also Human Rights Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/para-champ-activist-bag-helen-keller-awards/articleshow/79649570.cms||Petlee Peter
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Youth stabbed after clash over cricket||BENGALURU: A fight which broke out between two teams playing cricket on a ground in Ittamadu ended in the stabbing of a youth. Premkumar D, 23, was stabbed thrice and his head was smashed with a beer bottle allegedly by Mahendra, Naveen and Velu, all residents of Ittamadu, on Sunday night. Premkumar and his friend Asik were part of a team that played a match in the afternoon at Rama Rao playground in Katriguppe. “At 3.30pm, Mahendra, who was from the opposite team, and Asik had an argument over the ball. When Asik hit Mahendra with a wicket, the match was suspended and all players left the playground. Later, Mahendra came with his friends in search of Asik and he spotted Premkumar outside the latter’s house. When Premkumar refused to give details of Asik’s location, the gang attacked him,” police said. “I tried to escape from the spot after noticing one of them carrying a knife. But they chased and stabbed me thrice,” Premkumar told police. CK Achukattu police said both teams have played several matches and they knew each other. Mahendra, Velu and Naveen are in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youth-stabbed-after-clash-over-cricket/articleshow/79649568.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Woman dies in flat fire, sister injured||BENGALURU: A 36-year-old woman died of burns while her elder sibling escaped with injuries when a fire broke out in their fifth-floor flat in Jeevan Bima Nagar on Tuesday. The victim was Meena Iyer, a resident of Divine Nest apartment on Masjid Road, Kodihalli. Police suspect a short circuit occurred in an electric fan in the flat at 8pm. The five-storied apartment has 15 flats and timely intervention of neighbours and residents prevented the flames from spreading to other houses. Neighbours said Meena and her sister Smitha, 38, were staying there since mid-2019. “Meena had resigned from a private company and was taking a break, ” residents said. Police found Meena lying unconscious in the bathroom. “We suspect Smitha was preparing food in the kitchen and Meena was taking bath when the short circuit occurred. When flames spread to other parts of the flat, deodorant cans and perfume bottles inside the bathroom and bedroom exploded. Smitha ran out of the flat, but Meena was perhaps stuck in the bathroom,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-dies-in-flat-fire-sister-injured/articleshow/79649577.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Listeners’ delight: Actors lend voice to Kannada writers’ short stories||BENGALURU: It is hard not to get pulled into Devanur Mahadeva’s popular short story Dambaru Bandudu as actor Dhananjaya narrates it or as Shruti Hariharan reads author Vaidehi’s Ogatu. Audiobook project Kelikatheya attempts to do just that: Pair some of Kannada literature’s best-known writers with much-loved actors to create an immersive experience for the listener. Besides promoting Kannada literature, the project also aims to raise funds that will be used for the education of girl students in Kannada-medium schools in Karnataka’s border regions. While the first edition of Kelikatheya was launched in 2014 with stories by Poornachandra Tejaswi, Jayant Kaikini, Ravi Belagere, Na D’Souza and Vasudhendra among others, recorded by the likes of Prakash Rai, MD Pallavi, Kishore and TS Nagabharana, the second edition which was launched on December 8 features stories by Kuvempu, Bolwar Mahammad Kunhi, Vivek Shanbhag, Yashwant Chittal and KV Tirumalesh. Mukund Setlur, who conceptualised the project, said, “My initial idea was to make audiobooks for kids so that they’d get a good sense of Kannada but I soon realised it was easier and more effective to make audiobooks of Kannada short stories for adults.” Talking about the curation of stories — seven in each edition — Setlur said, “Our aim is to showcase a diverse range of stories to the listener. We make sure they represent different regions of Karnataka along with the dialects. For the second edition, we also made sure there was representation of women writers, narrators and musicians,” adding they have included Vaidehi’s story, have actresses Sruthi Hariharan and Girija Lokesh as narrators, and MD Pallavi and Bindhu Malini as music composers. The first edition of Kelikatheya brought out as a CD became so popular that it sold in four countries and managed to raise funds that were used to help nine girl students, says Setlur. He hopes the new audiobook, priced at Rs 200, would help more girls get educated. “It all depends on how well it does,” he says.  The Kelikathaye audiobooks are available for purchase on www.kelikatheya.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/listeners-delight-actors-lend-voice-to-kannada-writers-short-stories/articleshow/79650100.cms||Mahalakshmi P
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Ryots hit Bengaluru streets, call land bill pro-rich||BENGALURU: Farmers from different districts staged a ‘barkolu’ (whipping stick) demonstration in the city on Wednesday, protesting the passing of Karnataka Land Reforms (2nd Amendment) Bill, 2020 by the legislative council. The farmers’ groups alleged that the bill would allow acquisition of agricultural land by non-agriculturists, especially the real estate lobby. They displayed ‘barkolus’ (whipping sticks used to herd cattle) to convey that the politicians were not acting in the interest of the farming community and that they need to be taught a lesson. Hundreds of farmers gathered at Maurya Circle, Town Hall, Freedom Park and other parts of the city and chanted slogans against the BJP and JD(S), which extended support to the bill in the council on Tuesday. The farmers said the government’s decision to repeal Sections 79(A), 79(B) and 79(C) would remove the income limit for purchasing land, a move that would allow the rich and powerful to take over land owned by small and marginal farmers. Traffic in the central business district was thrown out of gear for several hours as all major junctions were blocked by the protesting crowds. In fact, many ryots were stopped at the toll gates and other entry points to prevent them from entering the city. Though no untoward incident was reported, there were verbal clashes between the protesters and police at several places. The farmers and activists who arrived by trains were initially stopped by police. Commotion prevailed after a police officer at KSR Bengaluru City railway station insisted farmers remove their green towels and dump the whips they were carrying. The farmers refused to oblige and they were later allowed to go ahead. Some farmers, who were heading to lay siege to Vidhana Soudha, were detained near Freedom Park. Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmer, labour and Dalit groups, started an indefinite sit-in protest. Freedom fighter HS Doreswamy joined the protesters, where farm bills were burnt. The agitation will continue on Thursday and employees of KSRTC, BMTC, North East, North West transport corporations will join the cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ryots-hit-city-streets-call-land-bill-pro-rich/articleshow/79650145.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: HD Kumaraswamy under fire for supporting BJP in council||BENGALURU: A day after the JD(S) supported the BJP government to pass the controversial Karnataka Land Reforms Act in the legislative council, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy has come under fire from farmers’ forums. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha president Kodihalli Chandrashekar, who spearheaded the march to lay siege to Vidhana Soudha on Wednesday, termed the former CM a ‘big deal master’ and ‘four-flusher politician’. “What is your objective? Is it a deal, sharing of power or handing over power?” Chandrashekar sought to know as he addressed the protesters in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The Congress also alleged Kumaraswamy had a secret pact with the BJP since he had opposed the land reforms amendment in the monsoon session. “He should reveal what’s that secret deal,’’ said a Congress member. Hitting back at Chandrashekar, Kumaraswamy said he doesn’t have to learn from a “petty farmer leader with no integrity” on what stance the party should take on farmers’ issues. “How dare he call me a deal master,’’ he asked. He said the bill was initially opposed by him and his father HD Deve Gowda but after changes were introduced, the party supported it. “We are the one responsible for changes in the law. During the previous session, the government decided to drop some of the dangerous provisions in the proposed amendment after I highlighted them,’’ Kumaraswamy told reporters in Kolar. He said the main contention was that the government previously wanted to increase land purchase in terms of units, allowing a family to buy up to 248 acres. On his suggestion, the government decided to continue with the earlier provision of letting a family hold 10 units of land. He had also asked to drop section 79-A and 79-B of the KLD (Amendment)-2020 which have been misused, he claimed. Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets sought to know as to why those who are criticising him never came out in his support when he waived farm loans of Rs 25,000 as the chief minister of the coalition government in 2018-19. “The opposition party is not there to merely oppose. It must execute its responsibilities in a constructive manner. The JD(S) has taken a constructive path with respect to amendments to the Act by protecting the interests of farmers,” he wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hdk-under-fire-for-supporting-bjp-in-council/articleshow/79650148.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: CBSE school meet on December 11 and 12||BENGALURU: Bangalore Sahodaya, a registered association of Bangalore CBSE schools, along with CBSE, will host the 26th Sahodaya national conference on December 11-12 on a virtual platform. The theme is ‘Building competencies in challenging conditions’. Speakers will include Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, Union education minister, Manoj Ahuja, CBSE chairman, and Anita Karwal, secretary, department of school education and literacy. The inaugural session is available on https://youtu.be/QmYESnAYpDw. The other sessions, which include a keynote address by Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Biocon Ltd chairperson, Anil Sahasrabudhe, AICTE chairman, and Shekhar Seshadri of the department of child and adolescent psychiatry in Nimhans, among others, require prior registration. An open house with CBSE officials has been planned for day 2. There will be sessions on blended learning, future readiness, learning through integration of arts, role of principals and research in classrooms on both days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cbse-school-meet-on-dec-11-and-12/articleshow/79650157.cms||---
December 10, 2020||World||BioNTech says Covid-19 vaccine data 'unlawfully accessed' in cyberattack on EU regulator||LONDON: German biotech firm BioNTech said on Wednesday that regulation documents related to the Covid-19 vaccine it is developing with Pfizer were "unlawfully accessed" after a cyberattack on Europe's medicines regulator. The European Medicines Agency - which is responsible for assessing and approving medicines, medical devices and vaccines for the European Union - said earlier on Wednesday it had been targeted in a cyberattack. BioNTech said: "Today, we were informed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that the agency has been subject to a cyber attack and that some documents relating to the regulatory submission for Pfizer and BioNTech’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate ... had been unlawfully accessed." It added that "no BioNTech or Pfizer systems have been breached in connection with this incident and we are unaware of any personal data of study participants being accessed." BioNTech said it was now waiting for further information about the breach. The EMA gave no details about the attack in its earlier statement, saying only that it was investigating the incident with help from law enforcement. "EMA cannot provide additional details whilst the investigation is ongoing. Further information will be made available in due course," it said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/biontech-says-covid-19-vaccine-data-unlawfully-accessed-in-cyberattack-on-eu-regulator/articleshow/79650489.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Why are officers posted sans background checks, asks Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Frowning upon the practice of appointing officers with doubtful integrity as competent authority vis-a-vis the IMA scam cases, the high court on Wednesday sought an explanation from the government. The secretary to the department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR) must file an affidavit explaining why officers are posted without background checks, the court said. The competent authority was appointed under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (KPID) Act-2004. At least a couple of officers turned out as accused and one of them even died by suicide. “To the say the least, this is a shocking state of affairs. A very large number of investors have suffered due to the IMA scam. The department concerned has shown the audacity of appointing officers with doubtful integrity,” a division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed, after perusing the status report submitted by the authority. It was pointed out that Lokayukta/ACB inquiries are pending against some officers and a couple of them did not report to duty, citing personal reasons. The bench said since a huge task has been undertaken by the authority for processing the claims which will be in lakhs of rupees, the government has to give an assurance that sufficient staff will be posted after making background checks. 40,000 claims receivedThe authority said that so far, 40,000 claims have been received from IMA depositors. The court was told that SMSes /IVRS voice messages were sent to registered mobile phones of 71,418 depositors and individual letters to 76,597 depositors. In addition, publicity about the online claim process was given by publishing it in English, Hindi, Kannada and Urdu newspapers. The CBI told the court that investigation is likely to be completed by April 30, 2021. As probe is in crucial stage, the court said the team head should not be replaced till its completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-are-officers-posted-sans-background-checks-asks-hc/articleshow/79650670.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt, BMRCL told to decide on seeking expert opinion over cutting 872 trees||BENGALURU: The high court on Wednesday asked the state government and Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) to take a clear stand on whether they are willing to take opinion from the expert committee appointed by it vis-a-vis felling or translocation of 872 identified trees along the Metro alignment. The court gave this direction after hearing an interlocutory application filed by BMRCL. Both have to give their decision in a week. The BMRCL has claimed that the trees identified — coconut, cashewnut and other species — are excluded from the purview of Karnataka Preservation of Trees Act-1976. However, the HC bench noted despite this legal position, the government and BMRCL have to act as trustees of public trust doctrine. “It’s true that the principle of sustainable development is well recognised. In the circumstances merely because section 8 of the Act may not be applicable to 872 trees, the state or BMRCL cannot remove them. They will have to apply their mind on the question of saving the maximum number of trees. They will also have to take assistance from experts,” the bench observed. The court is hearing a PIL by Bangalore Environment Trust and Dattatraya T Devare, an environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/govt-bmrcl-told-to-decide-on-seeking-expert-opinion-over-cutting-872-trees/articleshow/79650697.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Verdict on Amnesty’s petition reserved||BENGALURU: The HC has reserved its verdict on a petition filed by Indians For Amnesty International Trust, the Indian arm of Amnesty International. This was after the central government advocate, who appeared on behalf of the Enforcement Directorate, informed that it’s not possible to consider the suggestion put forth by the court to allow the petitioner to make use of its five frozen bank accounts for settling statutory dues.  Justice PS Dinesh Kumar said he would pass orders on the petition, as indicated by him during the last hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/verdict-on-amnestys-petition-reserved/articleshow/79650699.cms||---
December 10, 2020||World||Johnson’s Kashmir gaffe in response to MP’s question on farmers||LONDON: British PM Boris Johnson, whose India connection goes beyond his love of curry, on Wednesday appeared to confuse the ongoing farmer protests in Delhi with the Kashmir issue and confounded his colleagues with the suggestion that "these are pre-eminently matters for those two governments to settle". Johnson's remark, which left MPs and commentators in the UK and beyond baffled, came in response to a question from Sikh Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi on whether he would convey to PM Narendra Modi "our heartfelt anxieties, our hopes for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock, and does he agree that everyone has a fundamental right to peaceful protest?" Johnson replied, "Of course. Our view is that, as the right honourable gentleman knows well, of course, we have serious concerns about what is happening between India and Pakistan." The Slough MP, who had organised the letter to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab that 35 other British MPs – mainly Labour – signed, wants a meeting convened urgently to "discuss the deteriorating situation in the Punjab and its relationship with the Centre". On Wednesday, during the weekly Prime Minister’S Questions event, he said: "Many constituents, especially those emanating from the Punjab and other parts of India, and I, were horrified to see footage of water cannon, tear gas and brute force being used against peacefully protesting farmers. However, it was heartwarming to see those very farmers feeding those forces who had been ordered to beat or suppress them. What indomitable spirit and it takes a special kind of people to do that." Labour MPs swiftly took to Twitter to condemn the UK PM’s response. Dhesi tweeted a video of the exchange and said, "It might help if our PM actually knew what he was talking about!" Another Sikh MP, Preet Kaur Gill, tweeted, "The foreign sec @DominicRaab has failed to brief this PM on one of the largest protests the world has seen." Emily Thornberry MP, shadow international trade secretary, tweeted, "It would seem our Prime Minister (and former Foreign Secretary) doesn’t know the difference between Punjab and Kashmir. Why are we not surprised?" Afzal Khan, who is of Pakistani origin, said, "The PM responded with a rehearsed and unrelated answer about India and Pakistan. The issue has nothing to do with Pakistan. Incredible." Debbie Abrahams MP, who was deported from India on 17 February 2020, and promptly flew to Pakistan to meet PM Imran Khan, who has in the past been highly critical of the Indian government and who chairs the Kashmir APPG, tweeted, "Johnson clearly had no idea of the issues farmers in India are facing. His response was absolutely bizarre." Some interpreted the PM’s remarks as showing deep insights into vested interests behind the protests on the outskirts of Delhi. The twitter handle British Indians Voice tweeted the exchange saying: "#BritishIndians thank to @BorisJohnsonagain for standing with India. We understood this #AntiIndia #Khalistan2020 agenda is of Pakistan and naturally #LabourParty MP’s are giving it a voice... Isn’t it @TanDhesi @Keir_Starmer?" Political analyst Kapil Dudakia tweeted, "Brilliant, PM Johnson basically associated the whole thing with Pakistan. Dhesi looked totally out of his depth." TOI contacted Number 10 to establish what Johnson had meant. A UK Government spokesperson said, "Our line on the farmers’ protests is that they are a matter for India. Nothing to add to that." Johnson's estranged barrister wife Marina Wheeler QC is half-Indian. Watch Watch: UK PM Boris Johnson’s bizarre reaction to farmers’ protest||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/johnsons-kashmir-gaffe-in-response-to-mps-question-on-farmers/articleshow/79650781.cms||NAOMI CANTON
December 10, 2020||Goa||At 80, Netravalkar continues to guard his goalposts||PANAJI: Manohar S Netravalkar turns 80 today but even on his birthday, he won’t give his training drill a miss. Every evening, the goalkeeper pulls out the football from a corner at his home in Porvorim and steps outside. On most days, he’s alone. He looks around for company but there’s no one, so he does the next best thing: train on his own. “I just hit the ball on the compound wall and train. I don’t want to lose my control over the ball,” said the goalkeeper. He’s always been like this. Whether it was during his younger days while doing duty for clubs like Sporting Club and Santa Inez SC – in Goan football’s top division – or training with senior citizens three times a week at Campal, Netravalkar has put his best hand forward. Before the coronavirus pandemic paralysed the world, Netravalkar was regularly training with fellow senior citizens and sometimes another group which calls itself ‘50 plus’ at Campal. He enjoyed those minutes on the field and now longs for a return. “It’s been so long. Fears over Covid-19 has kept us indoors. We haven’t played for nine months and it has made me rusty,” said Netravalkar, who famously stopped Vasco Sports Club’s dangerous striking quartet of A-B-C-D – Andrew, Bernard, Catao and Dominic -- in 1967. During training and friendly games across the state, Netravalkar won plenty of hearts with his ‘daring’ goalkeeping. Among them is Goa’s Arjuna Award winner and fellow goalkeeper, Brahmanand Shankhwalkar. “His reflexes, even at this age, are unbelievably good. We all enjoy his company at the Senior Citizens Football Club. He sets a great example for all of us,” said Shankhwalkar. Netravalkar kickstarted his football career when he was just 17. Based in Parra during his younger days and later Merces, he cycled to Panaji for training every alternate day, and those sessions helped him turn into a fine goalkeeper. Shankhwalkar was amazed with what he saw of Netravalkar for the first time. It was a senior division league game at Caranzalem, just days prior to Goa’s liberation on December 19, 1961. Netravalkar was then with Sporting Club, and even though his team got a hammering against rampaging Academica, the goalkeeper still covered himself in glory. “His team started with just eight players and then one more was added but ‘Monu’ never gave up,” said Shankhwalkar. Had it not been for his father’s dream of seeing him secure a government job, Netravalkar would have taken up football professionally. His talent was never in doubt. He was after all among the handful of locals in the pre-liberation Sporting Club squad, dominated by Portuguese players. “In November 1961, we were told that the team would go to Portugal to play four friendlies (February 12-17, 1962), but Goa was liberated the next month and that remained a dream,” said Netravalkar. Netravalkar did not let that disappointment affect him, or his desire to excel as a goalkeeper. Sixty years later, he’s still at it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-80-netravalkar-continues-to-guard-his-goalposts/articleshow/79650884.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
December 10, 2020||India||NHAI to bid out more highway projects on EPC mode to push public spending on infrastructure||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will bid out more highway widening and construction projects on EPC (fully government funded) mode to push public spending in infrastructure. Sources said the authority is working on a plan to increase the share of such fully government funded projects to 50% compared to the current policy of limiting such works to only 30%. TOI has learnt that the process has started considering that in the case of EPC contracts work on the ground starts quickly after the projects are bid out whereas in the case of works awarded under the Hybrid Annuity Model (HAM), it takes at least six months as the private players need to tie up funds from banks and other financial institutions. Official data show that the NHAI has so far bid out projects with a total length of around 1,900 km involving at least Rs 50,000 crore investment. “We have been getting good responses for bids invited for HAM projects. We have now got a good number of highway builders who are interested to go for such projects. We will accelerate the bidding out of EPC projects to push economic activities as this sector is a major job creator,” said a senior NHAI official. Sources said the highways authority has bid out projects worth nearly Rs 4.2 lakh crore since 2015-16. Not a single project has been awarded under BOT(Toll) in the past three financial years. “A lot of changes have been made in the bid document for BOT (Toll) projects and the model concession agreement has also been modified to attract more investors. We are hopeful of a good response from private players,” said another NHAI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-to-bid-out-more-highway-projects-on-epc-mode-to-push-public-spending-on-infrastructure/articleshow/79650958.cms||Dipak K Dash
December 10, 2020||India||Amid dissidence, meetings trigger speculation in Congress||NEW DELHI: A meeting of senior Congress leaders and then a veteran’s visit to the party brass, all in the space of two days, has set off speculation in the party in the wake of dissidence and a desperate search for a solution to party squabbles. Sources said some Congress leaders including senior leaders met at the residence of former MP chief minister Kamal Nath on Monday. The group included members of G-23 who triggered a row by writing a letter to the party leadership lamenting the drift in the organisation and demanding serious reforms including elections to the post of the party president and the CWC. At the same time, Nath on Tuesday visited 10 Janpath. It is not clear if he met Congress chief Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. The buzz is that the Congress chief is back from Goa and he may have met her. Either way, the meeting on Monday and then Nath’s visit to the party brass a day later resulted in Congress members trying to join the dots on what it means and if there was anything cooking. What is a fact is that at the CWC meeting to pay homage to late veteran Ahmed Patel, there were strong calls for unity in the party. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra too joined the chorus as she said the party should be united in its future endeavours. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot among others pushed for unity in the party, while veteran Anand Sharma, who is a signatory to the controversial letter, too spoke in the same vein. In coming days, it may become clear as to the direction the party may take — whether dissidence will pick up or there would be a closing of ranks. What is underlined by the party insiders is that late Patel was the mediator between the dissidents and the leadership. In his absence, the party may be hard pressed to find a senior member who can reach out to factions to mediate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-dissidence-meetings-trigger-speculation-in-congress/articleshow/79650921.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||HC orders NSA detainee freed, cites lack of ‘fair hearing’||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has quashed the detention of a person booked for rioting and arson under the National Security Act (NSA), saying the state showed "extraordinary haste" in initiating action against the accused and denied him "the opportunity of a fair hearing in violation of established legal and procedural norms and constitutional protection". Ordering the release of Javed Siddiqui, who had been arrested on July 10 for allegedly participating in a mob attack on Dalits in UP's Jaunpur, the court said, "Where the law confers extraordinary power on the executive to detain a person without recourse to the ordinary law of land, and to trial by courts, such a law has to be strictly construed and the executive must exercise the power with extreme care." The verdict came in response to a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Siddiqui challenging his detention under the NSA. "The history of personal liberty is largely the history of insistence on observation of procedural safeguards. The law of preventive detention is not punitive, but only preventive, (and) heavily affects the personal liberty of (an) individual, as enshrined in Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution of India… Therefore, the authority concerned is under obligation to pass a detention order according to procedure established by law and ensure that constitutional safeguards have been followed," the division bench of Justices Pritinker Diwaker and Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said. The case against Siddiqui was registered on June 9, when a brawl involving children snowballed into a communal clash at Bhadethi village of Jaunpur. Over a dozen hutments belonging to Dalits were set ablaze by an 80-strong mob that police claim included Siddiqui. He was also accused of hurling casteist slurs. Siddiqui's arrest was on the basis of a detention order issued by the Jaunpur DM under Section 3(2) of the NSA. The court criticised the administration for not arranging for statutory representation of the accused before the NSA advisory board in Lucknow within the stipulated time. "...There was complete inaction on their part… This inaction on the part of the authorities certainly resulted in deprivation of the right of the petitioner (to a hearing)," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-orders-nsa-detainee-freed-cites-lack-of-fair-hearing/articleshow/79651676.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: R Sampath Raj’s bail plea to be heard tomorrow||BENGALURU: The high court adjourned to Friday the hearing of former mayor R Sampath Raj’s bail petition. He was arrested for alleged involvement in the east Bengaluru violence on August 11. Arrested by Central Crime Branch sleuths on November 16, Raj was sent to Central Prison four days later. A trial court rejected his bail plea on December 1, prompting him to move the high court. On Wednesday, the HC issued notices to CCB and Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, whose house was set on fire allegedly by Raj and his associates and triggering the riots. CCB police have arrested 45 people for the arson and subsequent violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sampath-rajs-bail-plea-to-be-heard-tomorrow/articleshow/79652055.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two customs officers get four-year jail for taking bribe||BENGALURU: A special court for CBI cases on Wednesday sentenced two customs officials to four years of imprisonment for taking bribe from a businessman to release 15 laptops that he brought from Singapore. The officials are KV Srinivasa Prasad, then superintendent of customs, and Lourdu Prabhu, then head hawaldar working at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). In December 2015, the complainant, Srikumar, was travelling from Singapore to Bengaluru with 15 laptops. Upon arrival at KIA, the officers demanded Rs 50,000 as bribe failing which he would have to pay Rs 1.6 lakh as customs duty. Srikumar, who agreed to pay Rs 45,000 and sought time, filed a complaint with the Anti-Corruption Bureau of CBI. The officials in December laid a trap where Prabhu was caught receiving bribe at Empire hotel in Kammanahalli. Probe revealed that he did it at the behest of Srinivasa Prasad. CBI had filed a chargesheet in the case and Srikumar had died in 2018. However, based on the statement recorded and the probe, the 32nd additional city civil and sessions judge and special judge for CBI cases Shivaram K convicted the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-customs-officers-get-4-yr-jail-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/79652061.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||SFJ trying to instigate Sikhs in Army: NIA||NEW DELHI: The US-based separatist outfit Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) hatched an “organised conspiracy” to further its Khalistan cause by trying to instigate Sikh personnel in the Indian Army to rise in mutiny against India, a chargesheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has said. The chargesheet, which names 16 accused including SFJ leader Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Khalistan Tiger Force chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar and Babbar Khalsa International head Paramjit Singh alias Pamma, also claimed that SFJ was trying to radicalise Kashmiri youth and openly extending support for secession of Kashmir from India. The chargesheet has been filed at a time when there have been concerns that SFJ and other Khalistani outfits, operating out of Pakistan, would attempt to use the current unrest over the farmers’ agitation to infiltrate the stir and use it to whip up disaffection. Pannun, a resident of New York, Canada-based Nijjar and UK-based Paramjit ‘Pamma’ were listed as ‘individual terrorists’ under the Fourth Schedule of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in July. The SFJ, banned as an ‘unlawful association’ under UAPA, was on Wednesday described by the NIA as a “frontal organisation of Khalistani terrorist outfits” with links to Pakistan. NIA sources said the SFJ had been running a vigorous campaign on social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp and YouTube and had been calling India-based mobile numbers to push its pro-Khalistan ‘Referendum 2020’ agenda. The chargesheet in the ‘Referendum 2020’ case, filed in a special court here on Wednesday, named 16 foreign-based patrons and members of the SFJ. The accused are Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Avtar Singh Pannun (US), Gurpreet Singh Baagi (UK), Harpreet Singh (US), Paramjit Singh ‘Pamma’ (UK), Sarabjit Singh Bannur (UK), Amardeep Singh Purewal (California, US), J S Dhaliwal (Canada) and others. The NIA said its investigation found that the SFJ, a secessionist outfit floated in the garb of a ‘human rights advocacy group’ having its offices in the US, Canada, the UK and Australia, was a frontal organisation of Khalistani terrorist outfits operating from Pakistan. “Under this (Referendum 2020) campaign, numerous social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube channels and a number of websites have been launched, which are being used to propagate sedition as well as enmity on the grounds of region and religion, to radicalise impressionable youth, to cause disturbance to peace and harmony and to raise funds for terrorist activities,” the agency said. The NIA said SFJ has been attempting to undermine the security of the Indian state by instigating Sikh personnel in the Army to rise up in mutiny against India. “The SFJ is also trying to radicalise youth of Kashmir and openly extending support for secession of Kashmir from India,” the agency said in a statement on Wednesday. After Gurpatwant Pannun, Nijjar and Paramjit ‘Pamma’ — chief patrons of SFJ — were designated as “terrorists” under UAPA, the NIA identified immovable properties belonging to Gurpatwant Pannun in Amritsar and to Nijjar in Jalandhar. Based on the request of the NIA, the home ministry has ordered attachment of these properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sfj-trying-to-instigate-sikhs-in-army-nia/articleshow/79651831.cms||Bharti Jain
December 10, 2020||Business||Sensex races past 46,000 on back of foreign funds||MUMBAI: Led by foreign funds, across-the-board buying in blue chips on Wednesday pushed the sensex to above the 46k mark for the first time in its history. The index closed at 46,104 points, its highest ever. The session’s gain came on the back of strong buying in HDFC Bank, RIL, Infosys, Kotak Bank and Asian Paints, and the Rs 182.7 lakh crore market cap made investors richer by Rs 1.25 lakh crore. On the NSE, the nifty hit a new high at 13,500 points as it closed at 13,529, up 136 points. In addition to the strong foreign fund buying, “hopes of vaccine and stimulus packages in India and developed nations are raising the spirit of the equity market”, said Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services. On Wednesday too, all the three indices on Wall Street scaled new highs. Since October, a host of global markets have been hitting new highs on hopes of introduction of Covid-19 vaccines, even as the world’s tally of infections has risen. In addition to Dow Jones, S&P 500, Nasdaq, Sensex and Nifty, in Japan the Nikkei index is now at a 29-year high while in Brazil, Ibovespa is at a life high. On Dalal Street, the day’s gains were also helped by a Rs 3,564-crore net buying by foreign funds, BSE data showed. The rally also lifted investors’ wealth to an all-time high with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 182.7 lakh crore. However, the rally to a new peak for the index came despite a Rs 2,493-crore net outflow. The sensex’s journey from 45k to 46k took just three days, the second fastest 1,000-point rally for the index in its history. In the last one month, the sensex has gained a little over 8%, mainly on the back of a Rs 79,000-crore, or nearly $11 billion net buying by foreign funds, official data showed. During the same period, BSE’s market cap has also jumped by Rs 18.3 lakh crore. Although the unabated bull rally has made investors richer, it is also making some cautious. According to Abhishek Chinchalkar, head of education, Fyers, a tech-driven stock broking firm, while the overall trend continues to be bullish, one needs to now adopt a cautious stance given how steep the advance has got in the past several sessions. “Also, today’s advance in the markets has been accompanied by a 5% uptick in VIX (volatility index), indicating that nervousness could be starting to creep in,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-races-past-46k-on-back-of-foreign-funds/articleshow/79652176.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||Admit boy whose online error cost him seat, Supreme Court directs IIT-Bombay||MUMBAI: In an interim order, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed that IIT Bombay should permit 18-year-old Siddhant Batra to join and pursue classes for a BTech course in electrical engineering. He had scored an all-India JEE rank of 270 and secured the seat in October, only to lose within two weeks to an error he said he made online during the admission process. TOI was the first to report the matter on November 30. At a virtual hearing on Wednesday, an SC bench of Justices S K Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy began by asking the IIT counsel, “Tell us why you are not allowing? This is not fair...When someone’s admission is complete… why would a meritorious student who had already got admission want to cancel it?” Permitting the admission, the SC observed, “There is something known as common sense too”. On October 31, Batra clicked on an option to “withdraw from further rounds” during the online admission. It ended with his name getting knocked out of the admitted students’ list. A fortnight ago, the Bombay HC dismissed his petition to restore his admission or create a supernumerary seat. Batra then filed an SLP before the SC last month . The SC bench asked the IIT counsel, “Tell us why you are not allowing? This is not fair. When someone’s admission is complete… Why would a meritorious student who had already got admission want to cancel it?” Justice Kaul said, “All three of us have discussed. We are all in ad idem (meeting of minds).” IIT counsel Sonal Jain cited rules and said Batra had frozen his seat which as per rules under the Joint Seat Allocation Authority (JoSAA) alone indicated that he need not go for further rounds. The counsel said Batra had then “consciously” chosen to withdraw in an eight-step process and “rules do not permit restoration”. The bench said, “We are permitting it” and orally observed, “there is something known as common sense too”. The bench asked the IIT counsel several times, “What was the reason he gave for withdrawal?” Appearing for Batra, senior counsel Basava Prabhu Patil, appearing with senior counsel Nikhil Sakhardande and advocate Pralhad Paranjpe, said the student’s understanding was that since he had already got his BTech seat of choice in electrical, he need not pursue further rounds. Patil showed a screenshot to the SC and said that was why he had also chosen the option “no” when asked if he wished to take JEE again next year. Jain said he would file a detailed reply. The bench gave IIT Bombay three days to explain how Batra had completed the process of withdrawal. The SC gave the teen time to file a rejoinder and posted the matter for further hearing after the winter vacation, but not without passing interim orders in his favour. The SC said, “In the meantime, by interim order, we direct that Batra should be permitted to join IIT Bombay and pursue the course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/admit-boy-whose-online-error-cost-him-seat-supreme-court-directs-iit-b/articleshow/79652223.cms||Swati Deshpande
December 10, 2020||India||China gave 5 differing reasons for border buildup: Jaishankar||NEW DELHI: External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said China had given India as many as 5 “differing explanations” for heavy deployment at the LAC and that the Sino-Indian relationship was passing through the “most difficult phase” because of Beijing’s violation of bilateral agreements. He also said the Galwan clashes in June, which resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers, had completely changed the national sentiment. “We are today probably at the most difficult phase of our relationship with China, certainly in the last 30 to 40 years,” Jaishankar said during an online interactive session organised by Australian think tank Lowy Institute. The relationship this year has been very significantly damaged, he said. Jaishankar said the “very big issue” now was how to get the relationship back on track. “We are very clear that maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC is the basis for the rest of the relationship to progress. You can’t have the kind of situation you have on the border and say let’s carry on with life. It’s just unrealistic,” he said. “We have this problem because from 1988, our relationship had its hiccups, we had our issues and differences but the direction of the ties broadly were positive,” he added. He said the relationship progressed in trade, travel and various other domains as both sides inked several pacts to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC. He said multiple agreements were inked from 1993 with a commitment that both parties will not bring a large number of troops to the border areas. “Now for some reason, for which the Chinese have given us five differing explanations, the Chinese have violated it ...Naturally the relationship would be profoundly disturbed by this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-gave-5-differing-reasons-for-border-buildup-jaishankar/articleshow/79652593.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||After poor show, worried Congress set to rejig ministry||NEW DELHI: Congress’s poor showing in Rajasthan panchayat elections is seen by leaders with concern, with the view being that the party has not set its house in order after the Sachin Pilot-led rebellion in September which lay bare the factionalism in the state unit. Congress has prided itself on its roots in rural places while being weak in urban areas. Ironically, the party performed well in recent local body polls in towns and cities, but has fallen behind in the hinterland where the political power lies. What is of concern is that panchayat polls normally back the party in office. As the results poured in with Congress falling behind BJP in zila panchayat and zila parishad contests, many said it showed the impact of the poor perception created by factionalism, which nearly brought down the Ashok Gehlot government. Also, rural governance is seen to have suffered with questionable implementation of programmes like loan waiver. Interestingly, a Congress leader said that even in the last polls, Congress had lagged behind BJP in panchayats, managing to win only around 13 zilla parishads out of 33. But at that time, BJP was in office in the state and was just a year old in Delhi under PM Modi while Congress had barely 21 MLAs in the state. “It was a different scenario. It was a fightback then,” he argued. Realising the need for a reset to enthuse party workers, Congress general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken said the party would install a new set of PCC office-bearers by the year-end and would appoint chairpersons of state boards and corporations by January-end. Sources said Maken and CM Ashok Gehlot have also agreed to make changes in the state council of ministers as the last of the three-step process agreed at the time of peace brokered with the rebels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-poor-show-worried-congress-set-to-rejig-ministry/articleshow/79652672.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||As ties thaw, India & Nepal decide to resume flights||New Delhi: India on Wednesday officially approved the proposal to recommence flights to and from Nepal after a gap of nine nine months. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had discussed the need to resume people-to-people contacts between the two countries, including commencement of an air bubble, during his meetings in Kathmandu last month. According to sources, the Nepal leadership had responded positively to the proposal for a travel air bubble with India. “It’s important for people stuck for a long time. Many need to travel for business, family issues and medical reasons,” said an official. India’s approval for the air bubble was officially conveyed to the Nepal embassy on Wednesday. According to reports in Nepal media, the local tourism ministry had twice proposed in the past few months that Nepal sign an air bubble agreement with India. ‘The Kathmandu Post’ reported last month that the first proposal had been rejected by the KP Oli government amid soured relations with the southern neighbour over boundary disputes. The relationship has finally witnessed some thaw in the past few weeks with Shringla visiting Nepal and the two sides agreeing to address border issues through appropriate bilateral mechanisms. He also invited Nepal to take advantage of India’s market and economic growth. He had assured the people of Nepal that once India rolled out a vaccine for Covid-19, meeting Nepal’s requirement would be a priority for the Indian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-ties-thaw-india-nepal-decide-to-resume-flights/articleshow/79652697.cms||---
December 10, 2020||World||As ties thaw, India & Nepal decide to resume flights||New Delhi: India on Wednesday officially approved the proposal to recommence flights to and from Nepal after a gap of nine nine months. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had discussed the need to resume people-to-people contacts between the two countries, including commencement of an air bubble, during his meetings in Kathmandu last month. According to sources, the Nepal leadership had responded positively to the proposal for a travel air bubble with India. “It’s important for people stuck for a long time. Many need to travel for business, family issues and medical reasons,” said an official. India’s approval for the air bubble was officially conveyed to the Nepal embassy on Wednesday. According to reports in Nepal media, the local tourism ministry had twice proposed in the past few months that Nepal sign an air bubble agreement with India. ‘The Kathmandu Post’ reported last month that the first proposal had been rejected by the KP Oli government amid soured relations with the southern neighbour over boundary disputes. The relationship has finally witnessed some thaw in the past few weeks with Shringla visiting Nepal and the two sides agreeing to address border issues through appropriate bilateral mechanisms. He also invited Nepal to take advantage of India’s market and economic growth. He had assured the people of Nepal that once India rolled out a vaccine for Covid-19, meeting Nepal’s requirement would be a priority for the Indian government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/as-ties-thaw-india-nepal-decide-to-resume-flights/articleshow/79652698.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Big blow for Congress in Rajasthan as BJP sweeps local body polls||JAIPUR: In a major upset for Congress, BJP relegated the former to the second position in the Rajasthan local body elections by winning many more seats in both panchayat samitis and zila parishads than the governing party. BJP won 1,989 seats in the panchayat samiti elections while Congress could win 1,852 seats. Of the total 222 panchayat samitis for which the polls were held, BJP won an absolute majority in 93 panchayat samitis while Congress could win only 81. In 43 panchayat samitis, Independents will call the shots while in five other samitis, smaller parties have won a majority. As per the results announced by the state election commission (SEC) on Wednesday, independents won 439 seats, RLP 60, CPM 26 and BSP five. The elections were held to 4,371 seats in 222 panchayat samitis and 636 seats in 21 zila parishads. In zila parishad elections, BJP won 353 seats while Congress had to contend with 252. Independents bagged 18, RLP 10 and CPM two seats. The result of one zila parishad has not been announced yet. BJP is in a majority in 13 zila parishads and is set to head two more in Nagaur and Barmer with the help of ally RLP. Congress won the remaining five zila parishads. “This victory is the people’s stamp on BJP’s rural policies. It reflects support for PM Modi’s ideology, laws for farmers and the hard work of BJP workers,” BJP state president Satish Poonia said. Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra thanked the candidates for “widening the party’s base” in the panchayat polls. “These results give us motivation to work better in the future. Congress will do better in the upcoming elections by keeping a good synergy between power and organisation,” Dotasra tweeted. The SEC had conducted elections in the 21 districts of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawad, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. The polls were held in four phases on November 23 and 29, December 1 and 5. Watch BJP wins panchayat, zila parishad polls in Rajasthan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-blow-for-congress-in-rajasthan-as-bjp-sweeps-local-body-polls/articleshow/79652709.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||IAF to HC: Can’t give info on PM’s flights under RTI||NEW DELHI: The Indian Air Force (IAF) has approached the Delhi HC and filed a plea challenging a Central Information Commission (CIC) direction to provide information regarding Special Flight Returns (SFR)-II, which relates to details of the PM’s security apparatus. The IAF opposed the CIC’s decision while pointing out that these “sensitive details” cannot be provided relating to the current and a former PM. In its plea filed in HC the IAF has claimed that the “information sought includes details related to the entire entourage, names of Special Protection Group personnel accompanying the PM on foreign tours for his personal safety, and the same, if disclosed, can potentially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state”. The petition is in appeal against the CIC’s July 8 direction to IAF to provide certified copies of relevant SFR-ll to RTI applicant Commodore (retd) Lokesh K Batra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iaf-to-hc-cant-give-info-on-pms-flights-under-rti/articleshow/79652812.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Check if e-tailers displaying ‘country of origin’, govt told||NEW DELHI: The Delhi HC has asked the Centre to inform it if e-commerce entities such as Flipkart, Amazon and Snapdeal, are complying with the requirement of displaying “country of origin” on products sold on their platforms. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan on Wednesday directed the Centre to file a fresh affidavit after verifying the e-commerce sites claims of complying with relevant laws and to also keep in mind the objections raised by the petitioner, who has contended that there are still ambiguities in displaying country of origin on products sold by them. The court was hearing a PIL by Amit Shukla, a lawyer, seeking directions to the Centre to ensure that the name of the manufacturing country is displayed on products being sold on e-commerce sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/check-if-e-tailers-displaying-country-of-origin-govt-told/articleshow/79652844.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt cuts price of RT-PCR test to Rs 800||BENGALURU: For the second time since the pandemic broke, the state government has slashed the price of an RT-PCR test — it has now been capped at Rs 800 per test in private labs, down from Rs 1,200. In a notification issued on Wednesday, the government revised maximum prices for various types of tests for Covid-19. An RT-PCR test will cost Rs 500, if the sample is referred by government authorities to a private lab. For others seeking tests in a private lab, the RT-PCR test will cost Rs 800, TrueNat Rs 1,250, CBNAAT Rs 2,400, rapid antigen test Rs 400 and rapid antibody test Rs 500. Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, said since the cost of chemical reagents required for tests have fallen, the prices have been slashed. The state’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee had recently urged the government to reduce the cost of Covid tests. RT-PCR is said to be the most accurate in detecting SARS-CoV2, the coronavirus which causes Covid-19. This is also the first time that the state government has put a cap on the cost of collecting samples from home. Private labs and hospitals, which used to charge Rs 800 to collect swab samples from home, can now charge only Rs 400. Karnataka is one of the few states that has reduced the cost of RT-PCR tests substantially in private labs. In Maharashtra, it costs Rs 1400, Tamil Nadu Rs 1,500, Uttar Pradesh Rs 900, West Bengal Rs 950, Kerala Rs 2,100, Haryana Rs 900 and Telangana Rs 850. The test cost is lowest in Odisha which has capped it at Rs 400 for private labs. However, free Covid testing in government-run primary health centres and hospitals will continue. Health department officials said the public can report if any private lab charges more than the capped price and action will be initiated against the lab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-caps-rt-pcr-test-price-at-800/articleshow/79652875.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 108 missed golden hour in emergencies||BENGALURU: Ambulances of the 108 emergency service failed to reach 50 per cent of trauma patients within the golden hour, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has said in a report. The golden hour is the period when emergency treatment is most likely to be successful. The report, which covers the period from 2014 to 2019, also states that overall, the emergency service struggled to attend to nearly 30 per cent of people, who called for help, in the stipulated 30 minutes. The findings underline the failure of subsequent governments to make the service efficient and prompt. The emergency response time for cardiac, respiratory and stroke patients should be ideally 10 minutes. But the 108 service took more time in 60 per cent of such cases after being contacted, CAG said, citing studies. “The success of EMS [emergency medical service] is largely dependent on its responsiveness to emergencies and the adequacy of the infrastructure in place... Audit noticed that EMS fell short of achieving the desired objectives completely,” the report states. The report mentions a case from Chitradurga district. The 108 helpline received a call related to a heart ailment at 4.29am on December 2, 2017. Though an ambulance was assigned immediately, it took 56 minutes to reach the patient. In another case, an ambulance took 80 minutes to reach the scene in Raichur district. This happened on May 4, 2018, and the caller dialled the number 18 times to understand the reason for the delay. The 108 service was started in 2008. The government signed an agreement for a 10-year period with GVK Emergency Management Research Institute. The government later sought to cancel the agreement, citing deficiency in services, CAG notes. But as the government could not find another partner, the association with the company continued. According to the CAG report, between 2014 and 2019, the centralised call centre in Bengaluru attended to 2.5 crore calls. Of these, 91.6 lakh were triaged as effective calls. More than 51 lakh calls were considered medical emergencies and in 41.9 lakh cases, ambulances were dispatched. CAG has urged the government to frame a standard operating procedure for emergency medical services, from ambulance operations to arranging things at hospitals before the arrival of patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/50-ambulances-dont-reach-in-golden-hour-cag/articleshow/79652880.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||India in league of US, Russia & China as Isro’s desi GPS NaVIC gets IMO recognition||NEW DELHI: In a big boost to Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) has recognised the space agency-developed Navigation with Indian Constellation (NavIC) or desi GPS as a component of the World-Wide Radio Navigation System (WWRNS), making India the fourth country in the world to have its independent regional navigation satellite system get this recognition. The other three countries that have their navigation systems recognised by the IMO are the US, Russia and China. The development will enable the utilisation of NavIC in the fields of maritime navigation, surveying and geodesy (science of accurately measuring Earth’s geometric shape, its orientation in space and its gravity field). The recognition was awarded at the 102nd meeting of maritime safety committee of the IMO held last month, Isro said in a statement. NavIC or Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS) has been represented at the IMO by the Directorate General of Shipping (DGS), ministry of ports, shipping and waterways with technical support from the space agency. In April, NavIC L5 was incorporated in the Radio Technical Commission for Maritime Services standard 10403.3 for differential global navigation satellite system (GNSS) applications. Coined by PM Narendra Modi, NaVIC (meaning ‘boatman’ in Hindi) can provide two types of services — standard positioning service (SPS),which is meant for all navigation users and restricted service (RS), which is an encrypted service provided only to authorised users like security agencies. It is designed to provide accurate position information to users in India as well as the region extending up to 1,500 km from its international boundary. NavIC can provide a position accuracy of better than 20 metre in the primary service area and offer services like terrestrial and marine navigation, disaster management, vehicle tracking and fleet management, navigation aide for hikers and travellers, visual and voice navigation for drivers. Last year, Global standards body 3GPP, which develops protocols for mobile telephony, had approved NaVIC, boosting its use for commercial purpose by international and domestic mobile device makers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-in-league-of-us-russia-china-as-isros-desi-gps-navic-gets-imo-recognition/articleshow/79652968.cms||Surendra Singh
December 10, 2020||India||Natwar aide received Rs 25 crore as Embraer kickbacks: ED||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet for money laundering against defence dealer Vipin Khanna in connection with alleged bribery in the purchase of Embraer aircraft during the UPA’s term in office, claiming that he received Rs 25 crore as kickbacks. Khanna is a close associate of K Natwar Singh, foreign minister in the Manmohan Singh-led first UPA government. The Embraer purchase is the third defence deal negotiated under the UPA which is being investigated by the ED. The anti-money laundering agency is also probing alleged laundering of bribes in the purchase of AgustaWestland choppers from Italy and the Pilatus aircraft from Switzerland. In the Embr-aer case, the ED has attached Rs 16 crore of assets after tracking alleged transactions of Rs 26 crore bribes paid to the Indian agents. In 2008, India had purchased three aircraft from Embraer of Brazil for DRDO’s airborne radar system. The Brazilian manufacturer is accused of paying a commission of over $5 million in the deal worth $210 million. The alleged payoffs were received using the accounts of a leading rice exporter, KRBL, from Sangrur in Punjab from where Khanna’s son was once elected Congress MLA. “Investigation under PMLA has revealed that Embraer SA, Brazil, obtained the contract for supply of air-craft to Indian Air Force for $210 million and paid commission of $5.76 million to a middleman named Vipin Khanna for influencing the said contract in its favour,” the ED claimed in its prosecution complaint (chargesheet). The agency explained that the kickbacks were allegedly routed by Embraer through its subsidiaries to Interdev Aviation Services Pte Ltd (IASPL), Singapore, in lieu of a “sham agreement”. “The kickbacks to the tune of around $3.27 million were further routed from IASPL to KRBL DMCC, Dubai (a 100% owned subsidiary of KRBL Ltd) in lieu of a sham agreement to finally reach India through KRBL Ltd projecting the same as untainted money,” the agency claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/natwar-aide-received-rs-25-crore-as-embraer-kickbacks-ed/articleshow/79652978.cms||Pradeep Thakur
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||First phase of IIT placements sees just two job offers with American profile||MUMBAI: An old adage goes: “One leg of an IITian is in India, the other in Air India”, referring to the pull of jobs in America. This year though, many of India’s blue chip tech colleges do not have a single US offer. Last year’s leading recruiters, such as Microsoft and Uber, picked students only for Indian profiles. As the first week of placements 2020 comes to a close, the fewer international roles, already on the wane over the last few years, came mostly from Taiwan, Japan and Singapore. While American firms participated in the process, conducted the hiring drill of taking tests and holding interviews, placements offices are unclear about their decision with companies such as Microsoft not declaring their final list of candidates for the Redmond campus. IITs in Madras, Kharagpur, Guwahati, and Hyderabad, confirmed that there was not a single offer from the US thus far. One US offer was made to a student in IIT Bombay and one to another in Kanpur. While the IITs recorded two offers from USA, those from Singapore, Japan and Taiwan ruled the placement 2020’s phase 1. IIT Madras, which saw 14 international offers being accepted, had five from Japan, six from Singapore, three from Taiwan. Similarly, at IIT Guwahati, six offers were from Japan and one from Singapore. IIT Delhi had 15-plus international offers, but the institute refused to divulge the countries or companies that made these offers. At IIT Hyderabad, students received 30 international offers from two countries: Japan and Taiwan. At IIT-Bombay, US profiles were offered only by two firms — Cohesity and HiLabs. After the placement interviews, however, the IT giant Cohesity picked students only for Indian roles, and HiLabs picked one student for the US profile. “The slow economy, visa policies and the pandemic are some of the reasons for declining jobs in the US. Also, this year, with the pandemic, many software firms have adapted to the work-from-home format, which may not be extended for profiles with larger pay packets. They would want to wait for some time,” said a student representative. A professor in-charge from one of the older IITs said that firms that usually offer US roles probably wanted to wait for five to six months to see how the pandemic plays out. “Some of the firms have not declared US offers, despite the interviews. There is a possibility that they would offer Indian roles and con-vert it at a later stage. Anyway, the batch has six months to graduate,” said the professor, adding that travelling anywhere in the world could be a problem for international roles in this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-phase-of-iit-placements-sees-just-two-job-offers-with-american-profile/articleshow/79652982.cms||Hemali Chhapia
December 10, 2020||India||IAF objects to Netflix movie, wants scenes withdrawn||NEW DELHI: The IAF on Wednesday demanded “withdrawal” of certain scenes from an about-to-be-released Netflix movie, “AK vs AK”, after a trailer of it was shared on Twitter by veteran Bollywood actor Anil Kapoor. “The IAF uniform in this video is inaccurately donned and the language used is inappropriate. This does not conform to the behavioural norms of those in the armed forces of India. The related scenes need to be withdrawn,” said the IAF, in a tweet from its official handle. After the controversy created a storm on social media, with many military veterans attacking the film that will be released on Netflix on December 24, Kapoor tweeted a video later in the day to “sincerely apologise for unintentionally hurting anyone’s sentiments” because the trailer showed him using “unparliamentary language” while wearing an IAF uniform. Times ViewThe IAF is a much-respected institution. Their reputation is unlikely to be sullied by a scene or two in a commercial movie. The IAF should ignore such trivial acts rather than take serious offence.Kapoor explained that his character in the film was an actor playing the role of a distraught IAF officer whose daughter has been kidnapped. “I have always had the utmost respect and gratitude for the selfless service of all our defence personnel,” he said. Netflix, too, tweeted that its intention was not to “disrespect the armed forces of India in any regard”. As per Netflix, “AK vs AK” is a Vikramaditya Motwane movie, starring Kapoor and director Anurag Kashyap, playing “themselves as actors”. In the one-minute trailer, Kapoor is seen using foul language while sparring with Anurag Kashyap. As was reported by TOI in July, in what some may perceive to be unwarranted censorship in a democratic country, the armed forces have demanded they be allowed to preview all films, documentaries and web series made on them to check for dis-tortions that may hurt the sentiments of serving personnel and veterans. The IAF in August had also complained to the Central Board of Film Certification against the “undue negative portrayal” of the work culture in the force in the film “Gunjan Saxena, The Kargil Girl”. In its letter to the censor board, with copies marked to the Karan Johar-owned Dharma Productions and Netflix, the IAF said, “M/s Dharma Productions presented some situations that are misleading and portray an inappropriate work culture especially against women in the IAF.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/iaf-objects-to-netflix-movie-wants-scenes-withdrawn/articleshow/79653081.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Amaravati||Hunt on for lead source that may have caused Andhra Pradesh mystery illness||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh government will begin an operation to look for possible sources of contamination that could have led to the mystery disease in Eluru town of the state that has left nearly 600 people ill and one dead. AP health authorities said lead and pesticides, along with other probable sources, are being looked into as possible cause of the illness. AP health commissioner K Bhaskar said vegetables, fruits, soil and all other probable sources are being examined. Bhaskar said the mass convulsions and the subsequent decrease of lead content in the blood of patients after being admitted indicate it’s a case of acute exposure and not chronic exposure. “This means that at this point in time, it seems like a one-time spurt and the impact is limited to Eluru,” he added. Cases have been reported from Eluru rural mandal and Denduluru mandal also, where the source of water supply is not through municipal corporation, he said. On Wednesday, AIIMS-Delhi and AIIMS-Mangalagiri teams led by medical superintendent Dr Rakesh Kakkar visited Eluru again and collected fresh samples. Most of the cases of the mystery illness reported were in and around the Powerpet area of Eluru. Dr S Chandrashekar from the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology said water samples tested so far have not yielded heavy metals. “Some more water samples shall be analysed. We just started testing blood samples. We haven’t concluded anything so far on it. The old water supply pipes with lead may be one of the multiple possibilities,” he added. Earlier, authorities at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Delhi found traces of lead and nickel in 25 of the 45 blood samples of Eluru mystery ailment victims. Dr A Shariff of the clinical ecotoxicology department told TOI that the percentage of lead in the blood samples vary from 15 micrograms to 100 grams per decilitre. “Lead gets deposited in bones as time lapses and does not show up even in urine. Tests conducted on cerebrospinal fluid did not find any inflammation. Other test results are awaited. We can conclude that lead is the cause if nothing is found in other tests,” said Dr Shariff. Investigators will look for dumpsites of batteries which are possible sources of lead near water sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/hunt-on-for-lead-source-that-may-have-caused-andhra-pradesh-mystery-illness/articleshow/79653086.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 10, 2020||India||Cabinet OKs Rs 23,000 crore outlay for EPFO contribution scheme||NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved an outlay of Rs 22,810 crore to the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana’, under which the government will contribute to the EPFO on behalf of both employee and employer for two years, for recruitments made between October 1 this year and June 30, 2021. The scheme, labour and employment minister Santosh Gangwar said, will benefit nearly 58.5 lakh employees. The ABRY scheme, envisaged to boost employment in the formal sector and incentivise new employment opportunities in the aftermath of the coronavirus pandemic, will see an outflow of Rs 1,584 crore in the current fiscal. Under the scheme, the government will pay the employee and employer contribution of 12% each towards the Employees Provident Fund in respect of new employees for establishments employing up to 1,000 employees for two years. In case of companies that employ more than 1,000 employees during the scheme’s two year period, the government will pay only the employees’ share of EPF contribution, that is, 12% of wages for two years. The government clarified that persons drawing less than Rs 15,000 per month, who were not working in establishments registered with EPFO before October 1, 2020, and who did not have a Universal Account Number or EPF Member account number before the cut-off date will be eligible to avail benefits under the scheme. The scheme will also be open to existing EPF members who lost their jobs between March and September this year and could not be re-employed in an establishment with a membership of EPFO until September 30, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cabinet-oks-rs-23000-crore-outlay-for-epfo-contribution-scheme/articleshow/79653094.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||2.7 lakh ineligible people likely in NRC, HC told||GUWAHATI: Assam NRC coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has submitted before the Gauhati high court that the published list of Indian citizens living in the state contains names of over 4,000 ineligible people and indicated that the number of such “undeserving” people could be as high as 2.7 lakh. Sarma also submitted that all the “anomalies” have been reported to the Registrar General of India in February 2020 seeking necessary directions for “corrective measures” in the interest of an error-free NRC. But the central authority issued instructions to go ahead with the next step that gives one more chance to the excluded people to stake claim. Sarma submitted the affidavit following directive from a divisional Bench of Justice Manojit Bhuyan and Justice Soumitra Saikia to bring on record whether inroads into the NRC may have been created by individuals who are “undeserving” and “not legally” entitled to be included in the register. The Centre and state government are contemplating to re-submit petitions in the SC, seeking at least 10-20% sample re-verification of the NRC data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-7-lakh-ineligible-people-likely-in-nrc-hc-told/articleshow/79653114.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
December 10, 2020||India||IT panel meet cancelled for lack of quorum||NEW DELHI: The meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology had to be called off on Wednesday as only eight of 30 members showed up. Panel chairman Shashi Tharoor called off the discussion owing to lack of quorum. Those present included six BJP MPs and two from Congress — Tharoor and Rajya Sabha MP Nasir Hussain. The panel was scheduled to hear depositions from the ministry of electronics and information technology and review the functioning of the Unique Identity Authority of India. It remains unclear when the agenda for Wednesday’s meeting will be taken up next. The panel will now meet on December 15, where it will hear from Facebook representatives on the subject of ‘safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/it-panel-meet-cancelled-for-lack-of-quorum/articleshow/79653118.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Maharashtra OKs bills on death for rape, acid attack, child abuse||MUMBAI: In a bid to curb crimes against women and children in Maharashtra, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved two draft bills that propose death penalty for heinous cases of rape, acid attack and child abuse, reports Bhavika Jain. The bills also have provisions to increase the quantum of punishment, including life term, cover new categories of crimes, and propose a mechanism for speedy trials. The two interconnected bills, which will be tabled in the winter session of the state legislature next week as part of the Shakti Act, are the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act 2020 and the Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law 2020. Drafted on the lines of the Disha Act framed by Andhra Pradesh, they seek to amend relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Criminal Procedural Code (CrPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said once the bills are cleared by both Houses of the legislature, they will be sent to the Centre for approval. “The media is not allowed to report the name of a rape victim. The proposed Acts will provide similar protection to victims of molestation and even acid attack,” said minister Varsha Gaikwad. The draft bills propose to amend IPC Section 376 (rape) to increase the quantum of punishment to life term or death penalty in heinous cases where there’s adequate conclusive evidence or exemplary punishment is warranted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/maharashtra-oks-bills-on-death-for-rape-acid-attack-child-abuse/articleshow/79653120.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||In India, megafauna coexisted with humans for 30,000 years||About 1,00,000 years ago, megabeasts started disappearing from the face of the planet — the 13-ton elephant ancestor Stegodon, the 600-kg lizard-like Megalania, the 100-kg Giant Beaver. It was a period of significant climate change. It was also when prehistoric humans started expanding their footprint outside Africa. Wherever humans arrived, large animals died out. But not in Africa and south Asia. It’s a pattern that has puzzled palaeontologists for decades. But while Africa has been studied for six decades, India has never been. In a new study, for the first time, researchers from Yale University, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Natural History, the University of Nebraska and the George Mason University have compiled a database of recent fossils from the Indian subcontinent to fill this gap. Lead author Dr Advait Jukar said “co-evolution” has been used to explain the survival of large animals in Africa. “It’s kind of like an evolutionary rat race, where one species has to be better than the other to survive,” Jukar told TOI. So, if humans got better at hunting, animals would get better at escaping. If humans lived in riverine plains, animals would move into the safety of dense forests. The theory worked for Africa but India remained a mystery. Because there had never been a comprehensive study of Indian fossil records. So, Jukar documented the extinction of five large mammals — two massive elephant relatives (Palaeoloxodon namadicus and Stegodon namadicus), a prehistoric hippo (Hexaprotodon), a wild zebra-like horse (Equus namadicus), and the wild ancestor of the modern domestic Zebu cattle (Bos namadicus) — on the Indian subcontinent. If the extinction pattern could be demystified, it would help understand why large animals are found in such abundance in India. With fossil records from 25 sites in India and statistical analysis, they found that the disappearance of large animals here began some 30,000 years ago. Humans had started arriving from Africa about 60,000 years ago. So, there is a 30,000-year gap between the appearance of humans and (limited) disappearance of megafauna. This is around the time that there was a drop in the Indian Monsoon. Yet, they noted, “all of the species we document going extinct survive several intervals of prolonged drought during the late Pleistocene (126,000 to 12,000 years ago).” The only clear link, it turns out, is with the time humans start using projectile tools, which made hunting more efficient. So, only four mammal species went extinct over the past 50,000 years in India while 114 survived. It’s the third slowest extinction rate after eastern Africa (eight extinct, 473 surviving) and southern Africa (seven extinct, 265 surviving). Four factors may have helped the survival rate. Jukar said India has been home to different species of humans, with a record going back almost 2 million years. “This would have led to co-evolution, just like in Africa.” Prehistoric humans here hunted small prey. Then, about 9,000 years ago, cattle domestication began. Finally, the large geographic area over which animals were distributed may have helped support populations. “We have a fossil record in Siwalik, which goes back about 24 million years. The only other places where we get comparable records are North America and parts of China. But in India, research has been held back because of a lack of resources,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-india-megafauna-coexisted-with-humans-for-30000-years/articleshow/79653131.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
December 10, 2020||India||Centre allows 9 states to raise over Rs 23,500 crore after ration card reform||NEW DELHI: The Centre has allowed nine states to raise over Rs 23,500 crore via market borrowings after they completed the mandated reform on ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ to be eligible for additional fund-raising. Those eligible for additional borrowings after completing Public Distribution System reforms include Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Tripura and UP. UP is the biggest beneficiary and can raise close to Rs 5,000 crore through the borrowing window, followed by Karnataka at Rs 4,500 crore. To be eligible for additional borrowings, states need to complete stipulated reforms by December end with the Centre expecting more states to follow suit. Implementation of the ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme was one of the identified areas for reforms to be eligible for additional market borrowings of 2% of gross state domestic product during 2020-21, with others related to steps on ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms and power sector reforms. These had been flagged by the Finance Commission. The Centre decided to prioritise the ration card portability scheme following the nationwide lockdown due to a massive movement of migrants from large urban centres to their homes in UP and other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-allows-9-states-to-raise-over-rs-23500-crore-after-ration-card-reform/articleshow/79653165.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Cox & Kings CFO now in custody of Mumbai cops||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Police on Wednesday took Anil Khandelwal, chief financial officer of Cox & Kings (India) Ltd (CNK) in custody from Taloja jail. He will be produced in court on Thursday in connection with a Rs 239-crore payment default case lodged by IndusInd Bank Ltd . Khandelwal was earlier arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in another case and remanded to judicial custody. A team led by joint commissioner of police Niket Kaushik and officers Kishore Parab and Suresh Padvi is probing this case. Aduley Luis (55), vice-president, IBL, submitted a complaint to EOW. After an inquiry, police registered an FIR. “Khandelwal was instrumental in taking loans from banks and siphoning it off. Forensic auditors were appointed to examine details of transactions,” an officer said. Police said in February 2015, promoters and directors of CNK approached IBL for a commercial card facility on unsecured basis. They submitted the firm’s latest audited financials for the year ending March 31, 2014, and quarterly results ending December 31, 2014, along with business volumes. IBL sanctioned a card limit of Rs 25 crore on personal and corporate guarantees. CNK continued to utilise the card limit and always made payments on time. The limit was later increased to Rs 370 crore over three years as CNK demonstrated financial capacity to repay on time. The complaint stated that in June 2019, IBL learnt CNK defaulted on its statutory payments like GST and TDS. CNK, from June 2019, started defaulting repayments and defrauded IBL of Rs 239 crore, so an FIR was registered. Meanwhile, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday rejected bail pleas of Khandelwal and CNK’s internal auditor Naresh Jain, arrested in the money-laundering case being investigated by ED. Last week, ED chargesheeted the group and its officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cox-kings-cfo-now-in-custody-of-mumbai-cops/articleshow/79653173.cms||Mateen Hafeez
December 10, 2020||India||New cases below 40,000 for 11th day, deaths below 500-mark for 5th day||India’s Covid count remained below 40,000 for more than 10 days when 31,755 new cases were reported in the country on Wednesday. The 40,000-mark was breached the last time on November 28. Deaths remained below the 500-mark for the fifth consecutive day as 411 casualties were reported. Maharashtra once again reported the maximum cases among all states, after remaining on the second position the previous day, when 4,981 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday. Kerala was second with 4,875 cases, followed by West Bengal (2,956 cases) and Delhi (2,463). Together, the three states and the national capital accounted for 48% or nearly half of the country’s Covid cases on Wednesday. No other state crossed the 2,000-mark in new cases. Maharashtra also led the state list in deaths, reporting 75 deaths, followed by Delhi (50 casualties) and West Bengal (47). Kerala’s case count was higher than West Bengal and Delhi but fatalities were lower at 35. Rajasthan reported a little over 1500 cases on Wednesday while the daily case count remained between 1000 and 1500 for Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat. Among other large states, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Telangana, Bihar, Jharkhand and Punjab reported less than a thousand new cases today. Among smaller states and UTs the HP’s count of 729 cases was the highest which was followed by Uttarakhand that reported 632 cases. In the northeast, the case count crossed 100 for only Manipur and Meghalaya as all other states including Assam reported less than 100 cases. Punjab and Maharashtra continue to lead the state list in case fatality rate (deaths per 100 infections). The case fatality rate reported on Wednesday was 3.2% for Punjab and 2.6% for Maharashtra. Sikkim is the only other state that reported over 2% case fatality rate. Compared to 31,755 new cases reported on Wednesday, 37,436 people have recovered from Covid. Active cases have fallen by 6,088 to reach a little over 3.7 lakh on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-cases-below-40000-for-11th-day-deaths-below-500-mark-for-5th-day/articleshow/79653196.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Covid-19: Vaccine makers asked to submit more data||NEW DELHI: The drug regulator has asked Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII), which have sought emergency use authorisation (EUA) for their anti-Covid vaccines, to submit updated safety and immunogenicity data from Phase-3 trials being held in India, official sources said. The subject expert committee (SEC) on the matter had invited the three applicants — SII, Bharat Biotech and Pfizer — to make presentations regarding their applications seeking EUA for their vaccine candidates. However, applications from only Bharat Biotech and SII were considered on Wednesday as Pfizer sought more time to make submissions. Senior health ministry sources said that seeking additional data was part of the thorough process. On Wednesday evening, the ministry denied as “fake news” reports that the emergency use applications of SII and Bharat Biotech had been rejected on safety and efficacy grounds. “Both Bharat Biotech and Serum made their presentations but data from Phase-3 trials was not there. We have asked the companies to submit updated information from Phase-3,” a senior regulatory official told TOI. According to the official, Bharat Biotech and SII have been asked to submit whatever data is available from their ongoing trials in India. “While Bharat Biotech is conducting Phase-3 studies on 26,000 subjects in India, it has given two doses to around 6,000 participants. We have asked the company to submit whatever data is available from India trials,” the official said. Similarly, SII has been asked to submit updated safety and immunogenicity data from its local trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-vaccine-makers-asked-to-submit-more-data/articleshow/79653213.cms||Sushmi Dey
December 10, 2020||Patna||690 more test positive for Covid in Bihar||PATNA: With 690 more people testing positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid tally jumped to 2,40,939 on Wednesday. Three more deaths in the last 24 hours, on the other hand, took the state’s Covid toll to 1,303. With 2,34,498 people recuperating from the virus so far, active cases in the state stood at 5,136 on Wednesday. According to the state health department, Saran, Siwan and Purnia districts recorded one death each on Wednesday. For the second time in a week, AIIMS-Patna did not report any death on Wednesday. While 21 patients were admitted to the hospital, 11 discharged on Wednesday. Among those discharged from the hospital included anaesthesia department head of Vardhman Institute of Medical Sciences Dr Rajendra Prasad, who was undergoing treatment in the ICU. Those admitted on Wednesday included the ones from different localities of Patna like Chandwari Road, Digha, Ashok Nagar in Kankarbagh and Phulwarisharif. Of 182 patients undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-Patna, 64 were in ICU, including 30 on ventilators and nine on high-flow nasal canula. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) also did not report any death on Wednesday. One patient was admitted to the hospital and one discharged on Wednesday. Of 690 new Covid-19 cases recorded in the state on Wednesday, Patna accounted for 267. With this, the district’s Covid tally has risen to 44,126. However, with 41,801 recoveries and 336 deaths, there are 1,989 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 34 fresh Covid cases, Saran 28, Nawada 23, Purnia 21, Begusarai 20, Bhagalpur 20, Nalanda 19 and Rohtas 17. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 707 people recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.33%. “So far, over 1.57 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year,” he further tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/690-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-bihar/articleshow/79649497.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 10, 2020||Patna||ER: Register own cellphone number for booking tickets||BHAGALPUR: Eastern Railway (ER) has asked all passengers to ensure that it is their own cellphone numbers that appear on reservation forms and not those of ticketing agents or people helping them book tickets using IRCTC IDs. The ER has directed the railway division and different stations falling under it to disseminate information among the passengers to provide their own data and cellphone numbers while booking tickets or making train reservations. This is being done to facilitate passengers so that they can receive messages (SMS) from the railways on their respective numbers about latest information related to trains like cancellation, delay or money refund for which they have booked their tickets. Eastern Railway’s (ER) CPRO Kamal Dev Das said, “Some passengers purchase tickets through agents or the accounts of other people, and their own contact number does not get registered in the PRS system. As a result, they often do not receive SMS notifications about revision in a train’s schedule. All the passengers, therefore, are requested to register their own mobile number only as the sole contact number so that they can get SMS sent by Railways regarding any change in time schedule of the trains or any other information communicated by railways for the benefit of the passengers.” There is a probability that these passengers will miss their train due to revised departure time or face some other difficulty in case of rescheduling or cancellation. “Hence, steps have been taken to create awareness at the divisional and station-level so that passengers register their own cellphone numbers as contact number.” “Correct cell phone numbers also become important during emergencies. In cases of crimes like theft of luggage, security agencies are likely to rely on the number given by the passenger while booking the ticket,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/er-register-own-cellphone-number-for-booking-tickets/articleshow/79649229.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Man gets 20 year RI for raping child||Hyderabad: A local court has convicted a 45-year-old man in a rape case involving a five-year-old girl at Lalapet in 2017 and sentenced him to undergo 20 years rigorous imprisonment on Wednesday. Special judge for Pocso Act cases court at Haca Bhavan, Prema Latha, convicted 45-year-old JD Prabhakar, for sexually abusing a five-year-old girl, who came to attend tuition classes offered by his wife at their house in Lalapet. “The accused used to sexually abuse the girl in the toilet when his wife was not at home,” Lalaguda police said. The court convicted the accused under sections 5(l) m r/w 6 of Pocso Act, sections 376(2) (f) (i) (n) and 377 of the IPC and sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 20 years and pay Rs 2000 fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-20-year-ri-for-raping-child/articleshow/79651103.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ludhiana||LDCA to hold T-20 tournament for Punjab players||Ludhiana: The newly formed Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) is now going to organise a prize money league-cum-knock out invitational T-20 tournament. The tournament will be organised jointly by Ludhiana District Cricket Association (LDCA) and Hara Cricket Club, Ludhiana, at the latter’s grounds in Ludhiana from December 18 to 27. The tournament is sponsored by Trident Group, Ludhiana, and has been approved by the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) and carries a prize money of Rs 1.50 lakh for the winner and Rs 75,000 for the runners up teams. The new executive body of the LDCA took over the reins of the organisation last month after elections which were held under the guidelines set by the Punjab and Haryana high court. After the appointment of the entire committee of the LDCA, the association has granted affiliation to Hara Cricket Club, Ludhiana, which according to the association is being very professionally managed. While giving more information, Bhupinder Singh Senior, former international player and member of the organising committee said, “It is a matter of great pride that within a month of taking charge, the LDCA is organising this major tournament to promote cricket and bring normalcy to the game in the Covid era. All safety guidelines of the state and central government issued in the wake of coronavirus will be fully taken care of during the matches and all rules and regulations in this direction were being framed by our committee.” Singh added that, “This tournament is a golden opportunity for the players of Ludhiana as for almost three decades cricket was confined to Mohali and Patiala only and no major tournaments could take place in Ludhiana. Huge enthusiasm is being witnessed among the players of not only Ludhiana, but other places too for playing in this tournament.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ldca-to-hold-t-20-tournament-for-punjab-players/articleshow/79649926.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Varanasi||CM Yogi to inaugurate 3-day mega webinar at DDU||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the three-day mega Seminar cum webinar at Deeksha Bhawan of Deendayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University. It is jointly organized by DDU Gorakhpur University and the planning department of the UP government. More than 300 scholars from across the country and the world will brainstorm on the challenges being faced by 28 districts of Purvanchal, and prepare a blueprint of the development plan for the region. The mega seminar will cover five important sectors including primary sector, manufacturing sector, service sector, social sector and water sector. Nine technical sessions will be held on each sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-to-inaugurate-3-day-mega-webinar-at-ddu/articleshow/79651192.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||2,400 houses built for poor in T: Harish||Hyderabad: Announcing that 2,460 houses were built across the state at a cost of Rs 163 crore, finance minister Harish Rao said the area where double-bedroom houses have come up for the poor in Siddipet will be named as KCR Nagar. Addressing a press meet in Siddipet, Rao said that in the first phase, 1,341 houses were allotted to beneficiaries, while 1,000 houses were handed over in the second phase. He said that Rs 43 crore will be spent to construct an IT hub in Siddipet. Meanwhile, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is set to inspect these houses in Siddipet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2400-houses-built-for-poor-in-t-harish/articleshow/79651110.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Income-tax department searches on Chettinad group||HYDERABAD: Sleuths of income-tax department conducted searches on Chettinad group of companies across the country, including Hyderabad. I-T sleuths are looking into possible tax evasion by the group, sources said. I-T sleuths searched the offices of Chettinad Cement Corporation at Panjagutta. Sources said offices of the group in nine other locations in Telangana have also been searched. Sources said the searches were conducted in Nalgonda, Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam and other places of AP and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-t-searches-on-chettinad-group/articleshow/79651157.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Be on guard against health ailments in winters, say doctors||PATNA: Health experts warn Patnaites, especially children and elderly people, to be on their guard against respiratory and heart-related issues during winters. Former superintendent of the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, says the winter season is more dangerous for aged people and infants because their thermoregulatory mechanisms are fragile. “Elderly people’s blood pressure shoots up which can lead to paralysis. Many of them also suffer a heart attack or a stroke,” Dr Rajiv adds. According to the doctor, respiratory diseases like bronchial asthma and emphysema that causes shortness of breath aggravate in the winter season. “Children, on the other hand, experience few episodes of diarrhoea,” Dr Rajiv says and advises people to avoid early morning walks. PMCH associate professor Dr R D Singh claims that nearly 20% of the patients he treats every day have problems like cough, cold, viral fever, blood pressure and asthma that are common in the winters. “One should check one’s BP regularly and not miss medicines. Keeping it under control is important,” he says. Skin problems like frostbite and petechial haemorrhage are also common in winters. Skin specialist Dr Panjak Tiwari points out that lips crack and people experience more hair fall because of dandruff. “When the skin becomes dry, people should apply a cream-based moisturizer instead of a lotion. They should also prefer a mild soap to an antibacterial one as the latter takes away the moisture from the skin,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/be-on-guard-against-health-ailments-in-winters-doctors/articleshow/79649360.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 10, 2020||Patna||1k more PUC centres to be opened in state: Govt||PATNA: Getting pollution-under-control (PUC) certificate for vehicles would become easier for people in the state as the transport department has decided to open 1,000 more centres for the purpose in the state. All the fuel stations and service centres of automobile companies would also have to set up PUC centres under the Bihar Motor Rules, 1992. This would help curb air pollution and benefit vehicle owners get their PUC certificate hassle-free. There are 1,000 PUC centres in the state, mainly in urban areas. At least 750 of them were opened this year alone. Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said there has been a four-fold increase in number of PUC centres in the state. “In 2019, there were only 250 PUC centres. By next year, we have targeted to increase the number to 2,000,” he said. As per the Motor Vehicles Act, people will now have to pay Rs 10,000 as fine for causing noise and air pollution besides losing driving licence for three months. Agarwal said the opening of new PUC centres would also go a long way in providing employment to people. “Even a common man can set up a PUC centre by applying through the department’s website and. The Bihar Motor Rules, 1992 has been amended so that maximum numbers of PUC centres could be opened in the state,” he said. “At least one PUC centre will be opened in each block, especially in fuel stations, vehicle shops and service centres. Provisions have also been made for installation of mobile pollution check centres in the city so that more vehicles can be tested,” Agarwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1k-more-puc-centres-to-be-opened-in-state-govt/articleshow/79649097.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 10, 2020||Business||Regulator to standardise accident cover norms||Mumbai: After coming out with norms for standard terms and conditions for health insurance and term life insurance, the insurance regulator Irdai has asked companies for comments on its proposed guidelines on a standard personal accident cover. All stakeholders have been asked to send in their comments by December 18. “The insurance market is having a wide variety of personal accident insurance products. Each product has unique features and the insuring public may find it a challenge to choose an appropriate product,” the regulator said, explaining the rationale for a standard product. While insurers will be free to fix their underwriting practices and determine the price for their cover, the terms and conditions would be identical. Standardisation of cover is there in motor insurance, which enables buyers to make an easier selection between providers. It also makes it easier to sell and reduce the scope of mis-selling. Most personal accident policies cover death and permanent disablement (partial and total). Irdai has said that the compensation should be 100% for death and ranging from 50% onwards for permanent loss of limb or eye. Besides the death and disability cover, insurers can offer add-on covers, which include temporary disablement, hospitalisation expenses and provision of education grant to children of the victim. Under the standard cover, the exclusions include war nuclear risks, self-injury, suicide, influence of alcohol and during adventure activities including engaging in ballooning or aviation other than as a passenger. It also excludes accident while under influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs. Insurance companies have to settle or reject the claim within 30 days of receipt of the last document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/regulator-to-standardise-accident-cover-norms/articleshow/79652369.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Patna||22 from Gaya OTA to be inducted into Army||GAYA: Altogether 22 cadets, who completed one-year basic military training (BMT) at the Officers Training Academy (OTA), Gaya, under the special commission officer (SCO) category will be inducted into the Indian Army as officers after the passing out parade (POP) scheduled on Saturday (December 12). Prior to the POP, a commandant award ceremony was organised at OTA on Wednesday where OTA commandant Lieutenant General Sunil Srivastava gave away the awards to the cadets. Saatvik Sheopuri of Tithwal company bagged the ‘first’ in order of merit’ gold medal, Best Gentleman Cadet (GC) in service subjects, Eastern Command trophy for ‘overall all-round performance by GC’ and signals trophy for ‘Best TES (technical entry scheme) GC proceeding to MCTE’ (Military College For Technical Education). Another GC Dishant Kumar of Tithwal company also bagged the trophy for ‘Best GC sportsman’ and second in order of merit silver medal. OTA Gaya imparts one-year basic military training (BMT) in TES and the SCO category. The soldiers, who have already been serving in Indian Army are commissioned as officers under SCO after completing the BMT. Those completing BMT under TES proceed to MCTE at Mhow, Pune and Secunderabad to pursue four-year engineering course. Cadets of foreign countries are also imparted training here. On the eve of POP on Saturday, multi-activity display (MAD) will be held on Friday evening, which will have events like gymnastics, PT display, micro-light flying, equestrian and band display.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-from-gaya-ota-to-be-inducted-into-army/articleshow/79649157.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University PhD seats results out, many aspirants in limbo||LUCKNOW: The final merit list for admission to PhD courses for the 2019-2020 session was declared by Lucknow University on Wednesday evening, but only for half of total 45 subjects. LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastava said the merit list of remaining subjects will be released soon. The applicants are however worried that the session is already delayed by over an year and further delay would spoil two years of their career, and may also disqualify some from availing National Eligibility Test -Junior Research Fellowship (NET-JRF) fellowship. Candidates said they will have to rush with fieldwork for research to make up lost time so that they can complete their PhD within stipulated period they have set for themselves to pursue career in research and academics. PhD admissions normally start in July and end in August. However, last year they could not be held on time due to delay in approval of the new PhD ordinance and the process started in January. The written examinations for 492 seats began in March, but had to be deferred midway because of pandemic and were completed in September. Thereafter, interviews were conducted. “I had qualified NET-JRF in June 2019. The scholarship will lapse if I am don’t get admission within two years from the qualifying date,” said Akshay Sanwal, a PhD aspirant in Chemistry still awaiting result. PhD mathematics aspirant Ashish Singh said, “I had to complete research in five years by 2024, but now I will have to do entire field work in three-and-a-half years to meet my target.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-phd-seats-results-out-many-aspirants-in-limbo/articleshow/79651836.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Dharani delayed, Telangana mulls old norm to register property||HYDERABAD: With no relief from the high court on registration of non-agriculture properties through Dharani web portal, Telangana government is mulling going back to the old system of property registrations, at least temporarily. This is expected to continue till the government gets court permission and the registration and stamps (R&S) department gears up for registrations through Dharani. “The chief minister will take a call on non-agriculture properties registration in a day or two. The government wants to start registrations at the earliest,” chief secretary Somesh Kumar told TOI. He refused to explain further as the case on registrations through Dharani portal is pending before the court. Official sources said the state government is considering resumption as registration of nearly two to three lakh documents are pending since the state government banned the property registrations on September 7. The court also pointed out the legal basis and supporting laws for Dharani portal registrations. While the agriculture property registrations through Dharani portal began a month ago, non-agriculture properties registration has not been resumed due to the HC’s stay and other issues. “The government is also losing huge revenue. It is estimated over Rs 2,000 crore revenue loss in the past three months,” a senior official of the registration department said. Apart from this, there has been pressure from various quarters, especially builders, to start non-agriculture registrations. Some organisations have also raised the issue with municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao during campaigning for GHMC elections. According to officials, even if the government starts registration process, it would be confined to non-agriculture properties such as open plots in approved layouts and buildings that have sanctioned plans from civic bodies. “The properties applied for LRS recently will not be exempted now for registrations as the final proceedings need to be given. Similarly, a case on regularising unauthorised structures through Building Regularisation Scheme (BPS) is pending with the court,” a sub-registrar of the R&S department said. As of now, the R&S department has been implementing the registration process through CARD (Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department), which the government wants to replace with Dharani. The government has completed the transfer of data from CARD to Dharani and market land values were also uploaded on Dharani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dharani-delayed-t-mulls-old-norm-to-register-property/articleshow/79653229.cms||Koride Mahesh
December 10, 2020||Patna||Fog cover over Bihar likely to persist till Friday||PATNA: The dense fog cover hanging over most parts of the state, including Patna, is likely to continue across the state on Thursday and Friday, and rain has been forecast around December 13, according to a bulletin issued by the Patna Meteorological Centre on Wednesday. Foggy conditions are declared at a place if the visibility is less than 1,000 meters, and humidity is higher than 90%. Humidity in Patna was 98% at 8.30am on Wednesday. Shailendra Kumar Patel, an official at the Patna met centre said the visibility at Patna remained as low as 100m till 9 am on Wednesday and went up to 1,000m by 4pm. He claimed the visibility in Gaya was 100m in the early hours, but it was comparatively better in the afternoon. “It was the second consecutive day this year when fog cover prevailed at many places in the state. The fog occurred due to a western disturbance, which led to rainy conditions in Jammu and Kashmir on Dec 7. The western disturbances are followed by dense fog cover,” Patel said. The weatherman claimed that fog cover also led to a fall f 2-3 notches in day temperature from the corresponding normal for the day, while the minimum temperature remained 3-4 notches higher than normal. For instance, the minimum temperature in Patna on Wednesday was 14.6 degrees C, which was three notches higher than the corresponding normal. “People felt colder as the difference between the maximum and minimum temperature was less,” Patel said. He further said that fog and temperature conditions are likely to be the same over the next 24 to 48 hours, adding, “Fog cover is likely to be dense in the western parts of the state and places close to Ganga river and other water bodies.” The state is likely to witness the first winter rains around December 13 due to an upcoming western disturbance. A bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday stated that a western disturbance and its induced cyclonic circulation is likely to cause fairly widespread to widespread rain or snowfall over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh. Thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and hail at isolated places over Jammu, Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh on December 11 and 12. “We are keeping a watch on the movement of the western disturbance, based on which further prediction will be made on weather conditions in Bihar,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-cover-over-bihar-likely-to-persist-till-tomorrow/articleshow/79649308.cms||Piyush Tripathi
December 10, 2020||Business||Around 57% of vehicles in India uninsured||MUMBAI: Weak enforcement by traffic police in states, lack of follow-up by insurers and rising cost of third-party covers has resulted in a larger number of vehicle owners not renewing their motor insurance policy. According to a report by the Insurance Information Bureau, the ratio of uninsured vehicles on Indian roads has gone up by three percentage points from 54% in FY18 to 57% in FY19. Of the over 23 crore vehicles on road in India as on March 31, 2019, the percentage of uninsured vehicles was at nearly 57%. This means that about 13.2 crore vehicles on Indian roads are plying without the mandatory third-party insurance covers. Victims of accidents caused by these vehicles will not get adequate compensation as there would not be any one insurance company on which the liability can be pinned. The owners, too, have limited means to provide compensation. According to the report in FY18, of the nearly 21.1 crore vehicles on road, 54% — or just 11.4 crore — vehicles were uninsured. In one year, the number of non-compliant vehicles has risen by almost 2 crore. The bulk of the uninsured are two-wheelers, which account for 75% of the vehicles on Indian roads, with the un-insurance being as high as 66%. There are 15 states with over 60% of their vehicles uninsured. The southern states fare better in terms of compliance. According to insurers, it is possible for state governments to identify the uninsured vehicles as there is a database of insured vehicles. However, the problem is with enforcement. In Maharashtra, the state government this week decided to start recovering fines in cash after unpaid e-challans crossed Rs 600 crore. For insurance companies, the low level of compliance results in a higher claims ratio as, on several occasions, the tribunals have held the insurers liable for compensation, asking them to recover from the insured. The average settlement amount for death claims in FY2018-19 was Rs 9,01,207 and for injury claims it was Rs 2,51,094. This number has been growing year on year as it has been linked to income and inflation levels. Insurers, in turn, pass on the higher premium to vehicle owners in the form of costlier third-party liability cover, making the policies less affordable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/57-vehicles-in-india-uninsured/articleshow/79652274.cms||Mayur Shetty
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Still in flood water, Osman Nagar residents await help||HYDERABAD: Even as many parts of the city recovered from the October floods that wreaked havoc, the residents of Osman Nagar are yet to get any respite as their homes are still inundated. Angry locals allege that their pleas to drain out water have fallen on deaf ears and despite repeated appeals, no one came to their rescue. “Four feet flood water is still inside the mosque. Hundreds of houses are inundated. Home minister Mahmood Ali has assured to help Osman Nagar residents but no effort was made to save us,’’ complained Mohammed Sattar, one of the presidents of Osman Nagar mosque. The residents requested minister KT Rama Rao to visit their area and bail them out. “There are around 1500 houses located with registration and valid documents. We pay taxes, power and water bills. Some people are misleading the government that we are squatters. We are not illegal residents and we need immediate help,” said Omer Bin Abdullah, a resident of this area. The residents said that they had approached the collector and minister Sabita Indra Reddy several times. “We have become homeless. Everything was ruined in flooded water and no one is helping us. We want Sabita Indra Reddy to take up the matter seriously. How long can we have stay in rented houses. We can’t pay the rent. We want the government to clear water from our area,” said an agitated woman, adding that fuirther negligence may lead to health issues. “Our children and elders are living in unhealthy conditions. Further negligence by authorities would push us into a deeper crisis. The collector and minister should help us. They gave Rs 10,000 but that is a pittance compared to what we have lost,” the woman added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/still-in-flood-water-osman-nagar-residents-await-help/articleshow/79651151.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Varanasi||Ghazipur: One shot, another hurt in two wedding clashes||VARANASI: A 20-year-old man was shot dead over a petty dispute at a wedding in Ghazipur district, while a 48-year-old teacher was shot at by a group of unidentified persons at another wedding in Jaunpur district on Tuesday night. As per reports, during a wedding in Rasoolpur village under Kasimabad police station of Ghazipur, a dispute took place between a few local residents and the bridegroom’s party at the dance floor. The fight got violent, and in a fit of rage, one Golu Yadav allegedly fired at Roshan Yadav (20), the cousin of the bridegroom. Roshan was taken to the district hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. Golu Yadav fled the scene soon after. Panic prevailed in the village after the shootout. Senior police officials, including Ghazipur SP OP Singh, reached the village on being informed. Singh said that police teams have been engaged to arrest the accused. In another incident, a teacher, Raisaheb Yadav (48), was shot at by some miscreants at a wedding in Baharipur village under Jalalpur police station of Jaunpur. Local residents rushed him to the community health centre (CHC), from where he was referred to Varanasi. Police reached there after getting information. However, they are yet to make a breakthrough. Raisaheb, resident of Devapar village in Madiyahu police station area, is also the block president of Junior High School Shikshak Sangh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/one-shot-another-hurt-in-two-wedding-clashes/articleshow/79651146.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Many schools kick-start online process of admissions||PATNA: The state government may not have taken any decision regarding reopening of educational institutes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but many city schools are gearing up to begin the process of online admission to pre-primary classes. A notification issued by St Xavier’s High School for LKG admissions states that the online registration process for the 2021-2022 academic session will begin from December 15. “After paying Rs 600, one can get one’s kid registered on stxavierspatna.in from December 15 to January 5,” school principal Fr Christu Savarirajan SJ told this reporter on Wednesday. Mary Ward Kindergarten, the junior wing of St Joseph’s Convent High School, will upload the registration form after December 17 on marywardkinder.in. Parents will have to pay Rs 700 and upload attested photocopies of Aadhaar card, residence proof like electricity bill, ration card or telephone bill and their child’s birth certificate. The Montessori sections of Loyola High School and Notre Dame Academy will start the process of online admissions from December 27 and the second week of January respectively. All DAV branches, except BSEB Colony, will begin the admission process from the mid of December or January whereas Kendriya Vidyalayas will start the registrations from February. DAV-BSEB Colony principal V S Oja said, “The online process of admissions will start by December-end.” Meanwhile, Delhi Public School-Patna has already completed the registration process for admissions and will conduct an online introductory session with parents and kids on December 15. “The entire admission procedure is likely to conclude by December-end,” a source said. Other educational institutes like Litera Valley School, Krishna Niketan, Patna Central School, Holy Mission School, B D Public School and all wings of Bishop Scott High School have started the process of admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-schools-kick-start-online-process-of-admissions/articleshow/79649536.cms||Faryal Rumi
December 10, 2020||Patna||NMCH Bihar’s Covid vaccine storage facility||PATNA: The vaccine house at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) here, arguably one of the largest in the country, has been picked as the state-level storage facility for Covid-19 vaccine. Nine regional cold storages have also been identified for storage of the vaccine. Five walk-in cold rooms (WICR) are currently functional at NMCH to store different vaccines for routine immunisation in the state. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said these five WICRs can accommodate 15 lakh vaccine vials at a time and efforts are on to enhance the capacity to store Covid-19 vaccine. “Two additional WICRs are being readied to store six lakh additional vials, increasing the total capacity to 21 lakh. Since rooms are already there, only logistic work has to be taken care of. The improved facility will be ready by a week,” he added. “The vaccines will be brought to the city through flights. From airport, the vaccines will be transferred to the WICRs through freezer vans. They will later be transported to different districts as per the need. The vaccines once stored at the hospital will not be there for a long time,” Dr Singh said. The state has targeted to store at least 2.37 crore vials against its existing capacity of 1.37 crore. The additional one crore capacity will be exclusively for Covid-19 vaccines. On Tuesday, state health minister Mangal Pandey had said that apart from a state-level cold storage for vaccine, there will be 10 regional-level storages in Patna, Aurangabad, Saran, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, Darbhanga, Saharsa, Purnia, Bhagalpur and Nalanda districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nmch-bihars-covid-vaccine-storage-facility/articleshow/79649519.cms||Sheezan Nezami
December 10, 2020||Surat||Surat lost max Covid warriors in state||Surat: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) lost 23 of its Covid warriors, the highest in any civic body in the state. However, the civic body is relentlessly putting up its valiant fight against the global pandemic. Of the casualties it suffered, half of the employees belonged to the health department which has been in the forefront, ever since battle lines were drawn in the city against the pandemic. As per data, as many as 11 SMC employees had died in the month of July only. The first SMC warrior to succumb to the virus was Girish Bhadarka, a sanitary sub inspector working in Leprosy department who died on July 7, two days after he tested positive for Covid-19. Total 1,011 SMC employees have tested positive for Covid-19 till now. According to sources, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation lost 14 employees, Vadodara five and Rajkot lost four employees to Covid-19. Of the 23 employees who succumbed to the virus, two were sanitary sub-inspectors, four sanitary inspectors, two safai kamdars, seven clerks, four beldars, one each of junior engineer, sub officer (fire), peon and assistant accountant. “Majority of those SMC employees who succumbed to Covid-19 were working hard for the betterment of the society and to keep people safe from the virus. Sanitary inspectors, safai workers and beldars, fire officers were among those who were directly engaged in the Covid-19 duty which included sanitization, door-to-door survey and other health services and come into contact with the virus, We have considered all 23 employees who have died due to Covid-19 as frontline workers,” Ashish Naik, dy municipal commissioner, (health), told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-lost-max-covid-warriors-in-state/articleshow/79648975.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Patna||Muz shelter home case convict dies in Tihar jail||PATNA: Ramanuj Thakur, one of the 19 convicts serving a sentence in connection with the infamous Muzaffarpur Balika Grih sexual abuse case, died at Delhi’s Tihar Jail, sources close to the family said on Wednesday. Thakur (70), a native of Muzaffarpur district, was sick for long. He was shifted from Shaheed Khudiram Bose Central Jail at Muzaffarpur to Tihar jail in New Delhi on February 23 after being convicted in the case related to sexual abuse of girls living in the Balika Grih, a short-stay home for girls, on Sahu Road in Muzaffarpur town. Thakur, known as ‘Mamu’ among the inmates of the government-funded shelter home, was awarded life term and imposed a penalty of Rs 60,000 by a Saket court in Delhi on February 11 last year. The director-general of Tihar jail, Sanjay Goel, said Ramanuj was in jail number 3 of the high-security prison after being awarded life sentence in the shelter home case. The family was handed over the body after post-mortem, he added. The jail authorities, however, denied that the convicted prisoner died due to coronavirus. “No symptoms of the virus found in the prisoner,” a senior jail official said. Sources close to the family said Ramanuj was the maternal uncle of the prime accused Brajesh Thakur. “That is why he was called ‘Mamu’ by the inmates and well as other employees and officials of the shelter home,” a close relative said. Brajesh and other convicts in the case are in the high-security prison in the national capital. The court had held 19 out of the 20 accused guilty for sexual, physical and mental abuse of 40 girl inmates. One of the accused, Vicky, was let off for want of evidence. The sexual exploitation of the girls came to light during a social audit of the shelter home by TISS, Mumbai, which submitted the audit report to the state government in April 2018. The FIR lodged at the women’s police station in Muzaffarpur in May 2018. The medical examination had confirmed the rape of 34 of the 40 girls at the shelter home. Later, the inmates got transferred to other homes in Patna, Mokama and Madhubani. The CBI later took over the case, and the trial got shifted to a Delhi court on the directive of the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/muz-shelter-home-case-convict-dies-in-tihar-jail/articleshow/79649200.cms||Ramashankar
December 10, 2020||Patna||B’pur mayor, dy mayor defeat no-trust motion||BHAGALPUR: Bhagalpur Municipal Corporation (BMC) mayor Seema Saha and deputy mayor Rajesh Verma retained their posts as the 28 ward councillors who had moved the ‘no-confidence motion’ stayed away from voting. Incidentally, only 24 ward councillors were present in the meeting convened today to move the ‘no-trust motion’, while at least 26 were needed for voting. Most of the aggrieved councillors were absent. Councillor Saryug Prasad presided over today’s meeting, while senior ADM Arun Kumar Singh, appointed by the district administration, was observer of the proceedings. The civic body here consists of 51 ward members/councillors, out of which one passed away recently. Major charges against the mayor and the deputy mayor were inefficiency, inadequate efforts in implementing developmental schemes including unhygienic conditions prevailing in the city areas due to improper sanitization works, etc. After winning the no-trust motion, Saha and Verma said, “This is not not our victory. People of Bhagalpur have won. All the allegations against us were baseless. For us the entire city is important. Some councillors, who are only interested in politics, had misled others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bpur-mayor-dy-mayor-defeat-no-trust-motion/articleshow/79649186.cms||Kumar Rajesh
December 10, 2020||Varanasi||Cold storage inaugurated at LBS airport||Varanasi: A cold storage facility, having a capacity of 5 metric tonne, established at Lal Bahadur Shastri International (LBSI) cargo terminal was inaugurated by the regional executive director, Northern region Airport Authority of India, DK Kamra on Wednesday. Varanasi and neighbouring districts have a good production of vegetables turning the region into a hub of export of fresh and processed vegetables. However, the export of vegetable and perishable produces could not be continued in full stream due to lack of required cold chain infrastructure. There was a regular of cold storage to accommodate the agri produces in case of requirement. The airport director took the initiative to create the long pending facility in cargo terminal. Airport director Flt. Lt. Akash Deep said that with additional of this facility Cargo Terminal, Varanasi can play a major role in the development of this area. “We expect that maximum agencies/ exporters use this facility for overall success,” he said adding that with this cold storage facility a long pending demand of farmers has been met. In various forums, exporter and agriculture producers had raised the demand for cold storage so that export of vegetable and other perishable items from Varanasi can be started. This is bound to give boost in business for exports, farmers, airlines. The cold storage has a scope for capacity enhancement as per the demand. The facility will be operated between 2°C to 8°C and has storage area of 25sqm. He said that work was delayed due to pandemic but with concerted effort, the facility has been created within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cold-storage-inaugurated-at-lbs-airport/articleshow/79651177.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Business||Dr Reddy’s ADRs listed in GIFT City||Mumbai: The American depository receipts (ADRs) of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories were listed on NSE’s GIFT City trading platform on Wednesday. This was the first such listing of any ADR or GDR in GIFT City, the NSE said. NSE International Exchange, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the NSE, became the first international exchange in GIFT City to list ADRs of Dr Reddy’s Laboratories. This was the first Indian corporate to do a secondary listing of their ADRs at NSE IFSC, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dr-reddys-adrs-listed-in-gift-city/articleshow/79652343.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Patna||ECR steps up winter safety measures to avoid mishaps||PATNA: With fog disrupting running of trains, railways has beefed up winter safety measures to avoid any untoward incident. East Central Railway (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the passenger trains have been equipped with global positioning system (GPS)-based fog signals from safety point of view. “The new GPS-based devices will give instant signals to loco pilots about poor visibility and track condition. Loco pilots will now be able to control the speed of trains and pass through dense fog areas safely,” he added. The ECR has requisitioned 1,317 GPS-based devices this. The fog-prone Danapur division will alone get 584 such devices, Samastipur 511 and Sonepur 222. Track patrol men and fog men deployed at the vulnerable places have been provided with GPS trackers to ensure foolproof safety of passenger trains, the CPRO said, adding night station staff have been provided fog signals (detonators) for use at places where signal visibility is poor. The new device is also known as ‘fog pass’ and ‘fog pilot assistance system’ in railway parlance. The device has proved a boon for passenger trains in foggy weather conditions. The railways has also installed signal sighting boards, fog signal posts and lime marks at each level crossing gate as indicator to slow down speeding passenger trains. The CPRO said centralised control rooms have been set up at the ECR headquarters in Hajipur and also at each divisional headquarters to keep a tab on movement of passenger trains amid fog. The Railway Board has asked the ECR zone to ensure proper implementation of safety measures. Railways reschedules five pairs of special trains: Railways has revised the timings of at least five pairs of long-distance special trains by 25 to 35 minutes following increase in speed limit of passenger trains from 110kmph to 130kmph on several routes falling under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the weekly Dibrugarh-Amritsar special (05933/05934) would run with the revised timing from December 15 and the Howrah-Prayagraj special (02333/02334) from December 18. The Dibrugarh-New Delhi special (02503/02504), Dibrugarh-New Delhi Rajdhani Express special (02505/02506) and Dibrugarh-Lalgarh special (05909/05910) will also run with the revised timing from December 11 and 17, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-steps-up-winter-safety-measures-to-avoid-mishaps/articleshow/79649395.cms||Kumod Verma
December 10, 2020||Business||Tatas line up $1.2 billion for e-commerce play||BENGALURU: Tata Group is set to invest around $1.2 billion for its entry into digital commerce with majority stakes in e-grocer Bigbasket and e-pharma platform 1MG, according to two sources briefed on the matter. These sources said Tatas are finalising an investment of $940-950 million in Bigbasket for under 70% stake, valuing the company at around $1.4 billion. The Mumbai-based conglomerate is also putting about $250 million in 1MG. Both these investments are in their final stages and expected to be completed over the coming weeks. The Tatas are expected to buy out Alibaba’s stake of about 30% in Bigbasket. The investment in 1MG is also expected to be a mix of primary and secondary capital infusion, with 1MG’s early investors partially selling their stakes. In a secondary transaction, the new investor buys stake from existing investors and the money goes to the latter, instead of the company’s coffers. Alibaba’s exit would be the first by the Chinese e-commerce group from one of their key investments in India since the border tension started this year between the two countries. Alibaba group affiliate Ant Group had said in August it had to review its follow-on investment in Zomato following the changes in foreign investment rules by the government. These changes are said to have been a result of the border conflict. “Tatas are likely to end up with around a 67% stake in Bigbasket. For 1MG, the investment is around $250 million for a majority stake. 1MG is finalising the details of other financial investors joining the round,” a person close to the development said. TOI reported last month that financial investors like Gaja Capital are holding talks with 1MG to invest in this round. Emails to Tata Group, Alibaba, and Bigbasket did not elicit any response on the matter. 1MG co-founder and CEO Prashant Tandon and Bigbasket co-founder and CEO Hari Menon declined to comment. Tata Group, which has ambitious plans for a super-app play, is entering segments that have received a strong boost due to the pandemic, online grocery in particular. Bigbasket recently hit an annualised gross sales run-rate of $1 billion. Other big groups are also investing heavily in online channels. Reliance’s retail arm recently picked up a 60% stake in online pharmacy Netmeds. Amazon India is scaling up its play in the segment. PharmEasy is merging with smaller rival Medlife. This combined entity is also in talks to raise new capital to battle the bigger conglomerates. In online grocery, Amazon, Walmart-owned Flipkart, and Reliance’s JioMart are all scaling up operations fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-line-up-1-2bn-for-e-comm-play/articleshow/79652546.cms||Digbijay Mishra
December 10, 2020||Business||Government aims for Rs 4,200 crore from IRCTC stake sale||MUMBAI: The government is looking to raise at least Rs 4,280 crore by divesting up to 20% from its 87.4% holding in IRCTC through the offer-for-sale route. On Wednesday, the company said that the government has decided to sell up to 3.2 crore shares at a minimum price of Rs 1,367 per share, a 16% discount to the stock’s Wednesday close at Rs 1,618. The base offer is for 2.4 crore shares with an option to offload another 80 lakh shares, the company said. The offer will open for non-retail investors on Thursday, while it will be open for every group of investors on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-aims-for-rs-4200cr-from-irctc-stake-sale/articleshow/79652304.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao writes to PM, lauds Vista project||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said the Central Vista project would become a symbol of ‘self-esteem, prestige and national pride of a resurgent, confident and strong India.’ In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the CM wished speedy completion of the prestigious and nationally important project. Conveying his greetings to the PM on the occasion of laying of foundation for the prestigious Central Vista project in Delhi, the CM said: “I join you with a sense of pride on the occasion of laying of foundation stone for the grand project of Central Vista.” He said the Central Vista was long overdue. He said the existing government infrastructure in the national capital is inadequate and associated with colonial past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-writes-to-pm-lauds-vista-project/articleshow/79651113.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||IIT-Hyderabad campus placements witness downward trend||HYDERABAD: Campus placements at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H) witnessed a downward trend this year with the institute getting 116 (as on day) companies in phase 1 as against 150 companies in phase 1 of academic year 2019-20. The number of international offers also dipped this year. The institute held phase 1 of campus placements from December 1-6. As per the data shared by the institute, more than 500 students had registered for placements across departments this year. The institute witnessed 222 offers (which includes 30 international offers) from 63 companies during the phase 1 of campus placements. Eight companies from two countries (Japan and Taiwan) made 30 international offers this year as against 38 international offers from 15 companies from three countries (Japan, US and Taiwan) last year. “We had to practice coding for the short-listing round and all the interviews were held online. We were sceptical that Covid-19 may hit the overall placements. But I am happy to have secured an international offer from a Japanese firm,” said Vinay Prakash, MTech student who will be joining as a digital technology specialist at Yokogawa, Japan by September/October, 2021. Despite the Covid-19 outbreak and fears of economic uncertainty, the institute observed an upward trend in pre-placement offers (PPOs) this year. The institute had 48 PPOs as against 37 in the last academic year. “Including the accepted PPOs, a total of 206 students have already been placed at the end of phase 1 placements for 2020-21 academic year. This compares favourably with the overall students placed in the entire previous academic year, which was 295 students (including 37 PPOs),” said Pradeep Yemula, faculty in-charge (placements), IIT-H. This year, the institute crossed more than 75 per cent placements for circuit branches, which was five per cent less than last academic year. This year too, most of the offers so far are from the information technology and service sectors, with few in core sector as well. Phase 2 placements shall commence from January, 2021 as scheduled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iit-h-campus-placements-witness-downward-trend/articleshow/79651143.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||MEA takes envoys of 64 nations on a tour of Hyderabad vaccine facilities||HYDERABAD: A delegation of envoys from 64 nations toured the facilities of vaccine makers Bharat Biotech and Biological E in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley on Wednesday to get a first-hand experience of the Covid-19 vaccine development efforts underway in the world’s vaccine capital. The ambassadors and high commissioners from countries in North America, Europe, Asia, Africa, South America, and Oceania were visiting at the invitation of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) as part of efforts to familiarise the global community about the key Covid-19-related research and development activities being taken up by India. Tweeting about the high-profile visit, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “In a first, a visit of more than 60 heads of missions was arranged to the research and manufacturing facilities of the leading biotechnology companies, Bharat Biotech and Biological E, in Hyderabad. The participants were briefed on India’s indigenous efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccines, including ongoing clinical trials.” “As the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, India will contribute significantly to global efforts for producing Covid-19 vaccines. As PM@narendramodi said, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” Srivastava said in the post on Twitter. The Bharat Biotech brass, led by its chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella, and that of Biological E, headed by managing director Mahima Datla, held detailed discussions with the delegation, which was divided into two groups and toured the two facilities turn by turn. The Bharat Biotech management held discussions about Covaxin, an indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the company in collaboration with Indian Council of Medical Research, with as many as 70 representatives from 60 nations. Covaxin is an inactivated virus vaccine that is being developed and manufactured using the vero cell manufacturing platform at Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) bio-containment facility. The vaccine has already been tested on around 1,000 people in Phase I and II clinical trials and is currently undergoing Phase III efficacy studies on 26,000 volunteers across 25 sites in the country. Pointing out that Covaxin has garnered interest from several countries globally, Bharat Biotech joint MD Suchitra Ella said the high-profile visit was a reminder of how the world is looking to India in the fight against Covid-19. At Biological E, the envoys deliberated on the vaccine candidates under development, including the recombinant protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate that the company is working on along with the Baylor College of Medicine, Houston. The vaccine is undergoing Phase I/II trials in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mea-takes-envoys-of-64-nations-on-a-tour-of-hyderabad-vaccine-facilities/articleshow/79653227.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayashanti slams KCR on Bharat Bandh||Hyderabad: BJP leader Vijayashanti on Wednesday said that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao should try to hijack the Bharat Bandh protests ‘led by the Congress and Left parties in the state’. “We hear that Congress and Left want to attack anti-people policies of the TRS. Will KCR support those agitations too as he joined the Bharat Bandh call given by Congress and Left,” she asked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vijayashanti-slams-kcr-on-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79651126.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: DRDO develops quantum tech for secure communication||HYDERABAD: A milestone was achieved by defence laboratories as trials in two DRDO labs in Hyderabad — DRDL and RCI — demonstrated secure communication through latest technologies. Defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the DRDO team for demonstration of what is known as quantum key distribution (QKD) technology. “Secure communications are vital for defence and strategic agencies world over,” defence authorities said, explaining how distribution of encryption keys from time to time was important. Sharing of keys over the air or wired links requires encryption, and this also requires that the encryption keys to be pre-shared. In the QKD technology, encryption keys are sent as qubits in a fibre optic cable. Quantum computing uses qubits as basic resources, similar to how bits are used as basic resources in classical computing. The QKD is designed in a way that if an illegitimate entity tries to read the transmission, it will disturb the qubits - which are encoded on photons - and this will generate transmission errors, leading to legitimate end users being immediately informed. “Quantum-based communication offers a robust solution to sharing the keys securely,” DRDO officials said. Officials said the quantum communication using QKD technology was performed under realistic conditions. It could also demonstrate the validation of detection of a third party trying to gain knowledge of communication. The technology was developed by Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (CAIR), Bengaluru and DYSL-QT, Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drdo-develops-quantum-tech-for-secure-communication/articleshow/79651144.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nigerian promises donation, dupes Hyderabad pastor of Rs 24 lakh||HYDERABAD: Cybercrime sleuths of the Hyderabad commissionerate have arrested a Nigerian, who duped a city-based pastor for over Rs 24 lakh by posing as a Canadian philanthropist wishing to donate money and masks for pandemic-affected poor of the city. According to police, Morgan (32), a Nigerian national is based in Bangalore. After the lockdown, Morgan befriended pastor Moses of Banjara Hills through a social networking platform by posing as a Canadian philanthropist. “Morgan told pastor Moses that he was upset about the poor, who were worst affected by the pandemic. Morgan told Moses that he donates money for charity and expressed his willingness to send some money to Moses along with other items like sanitisers, masks and laptops to distribute among the poor,” cyber crime ACP KVM Prasad said. After Moses agreed to distribute the items, he received a phone call from a woman, who posed as a customs official at the Delhi airport and alerted him about an international parcel that they seized. “The fraudster posing as a customs official asked the pastor to pay the processing fee and customs duty to clear it for dispatch. After Moses deposited a few lakhs of rupees in the bank accounts mentioned, she kept asking him to deposit more in the name of income tax and money laundering fine. In one month, Moses had sent Rs 24.39 lakh before realising that he was duped and lodged a complaint on August 19,” the ACP said. Meanwhile, Bangalore police arrested the accused in a similar fraud and Hyderabad police brought Morgan to the city on prisoner transit warrant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nigerian-promises-donation-dupes-city-pastor-of-rs-24l/articleshow/79651180.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Mercury levels dip in Hyderabad, Met dept says coldwave unlikely in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Mercury levels have started dipping in the city paving way for the official onset of winter. City recorded minimum temperature of 13.8 degree Celsius on Tuesday as meteorologists forecast that it will go down further by the next week. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society, Lingampally recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 11.8 degree Celsius followed by 12.8 degree Celsius at Rajendranagar and 12.9 degree Celsius at Macha Bollarum. The maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 30.1 degree Celsius. “Currently, easterly winds are prevailing over Telangana which may cause a slight nip in the air. Another western disturbance is likely to occur in the next few days following which we can expect the temperature levels to drop from third week of December,” said A Shravani, meteorologist, IMD, Hyderabad. In districts, Adilabad recorded the lowest temperature of 10.6 degree Celsius. The temperature in other districts remained in 11-18 degree Celsius bracket. The IMD forecasts that the weather conditions are likely to be near normal this year with not many cold-wave days expected. As per IMD’s seasonal forecast, most subdivisions, except southern India, are likely to experience above normal maximum temperatures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mercury-levels-dip-in-hyd-met-dept-says-coldwave-unlikely-in-t/articleshow/79651185.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad gets its first non-stop flight to US||HYDERABAD: In what is certain to bring much cheer to travellers from the city, the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport will start the first non-stop connection to the US from January 2021. The flight to Chicago — a Boeing 777-200 aircraft — will be operated by Air India, January 15 onwards. “Direct connectivity to the US from Hyderabad was long due and is much deserving offering from Air India to the corporate community from the regions,” stated a release issued by the GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL), adding, how the market between India and the US has the potential to serve over 700,000 passengers annually. Further underlining the importance of this all-new service, GHIAL stated how Telugu diaspora from Telangana and AP regions is one of the fastest growing community in the US even as India is the second largest source country for foreign students travelling to the US each year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-gets-its-first-non-stop-flight-to-us/articleshow/79651179.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf Board forms committees to manage mosques||Hyderabad: A board meeting headed by Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) chairman Mohammed Saleem was held on Wednesday to chalk out a plan to develop and protect Waqf properties across Telangana. Mohammed Saleem, chairman TSWB said that there were total 77 agendas were discussed in the meeting for the development and safeguard of the Waqf properties in the State. Twenty-three committees were constituted for managing mosques & dargahs as well as six Mutawallis have been appointed. “The Board has come out with certain agendas unanimously in the meeting and Masajids construction permission was given simultaneously. The Board also discuss over the generating the income and cancelling the registeration of properties executed on Waqf land,’’ clarified, Mohammed Saleem, chairman, TSWB. The Board resolved to construct the Toilets and Bathroom at Dargah Jahangir Peeran and Dargah Yakoob Shaheed Warangal to provide facilities for the devotees. The contractors, however, were asked not to harass the devotees and urged the managements to maintain neat and clean inside the Mosques and Dargha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-board-forms-committees-to-manage-mosques/articleshow/79651197.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Attempt to smuggle liquor to Karnataka foiled||PONDA: A team of the state excise department on Wednesday foiled a bid to smuggle liquor worth Rs 2.7 lakh to Karnataka. Sources from the department said that they suspect that the liquor was being transported to Karnataka to lure voters. The neighbouring state is set to hold panchayat elections soon. The team headed by sub-inspector Jitendra Adpoikar intercepted the vehicle while it was attempting to cross the state border via the Mollem checkpost on the Goa-Karnataka state border. When officials posted at the checkpost instructed the vehicle driver to open the carrier section, the driver abandoned the tempo and ran away, Adpoikar said. “We were lucky enough to have been able to intercept the liquor-laden tempo. It would have given us the slip if it was not for the two trucks loaded with pig iron that had been halted for routine border checking,” the officer said, adding that such vehicles carrying contraband usually speed across as the border checkpost has neither have any gate nor barricade to stop vehicles for checking. The seized stock consists of 78 boxes including 66 boxes of brandy priced at Rs 170 each bottle, one box of whisky costing Rs 600 a bottle, five boxes of another whisky that sells at Rs 360 a bottle, six boxes of a brandy priced at Rs 500 per bottle and 12 boxes of 750ml soda bottles. Altogether the cost of the seized goods is around Rs 2.7 lakh, the excise sub-inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/attempt-to-smuggle-liquor-to-ktaka-foiled/articleshow/79651296.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: AKTU job placements to 40,000 students, says vice-chancellor||LUCKNOW: Students of APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) can hope to get jobs in multinational companies as the university will facilitate placement of engineering and management graduates enrolled in over 750 technical institutions under it. As part of ‘Mission Rozgar’, an initiative launched by the state government to provide employment opportunities to the youth, the university will arrange interviews of students for 40,000 posts in various companies. To keep the ball rolling, AKTU will organise an online employment fair in the coming week. The employment fair is expected to see participation from seven companies, which are Cadila, Gainsight, NTT Data, Amazon, Aricent, Infosys and ZS Associates. According to AKTU vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, companies kept away from on-campus hiring due to Covid-19 pandemic. Employment to students has been possible by the efforts of the government. “Companies are now approaching the university to pick up students. This was possible only after the government managed to put a check on Covid-19 cases,” Pathak said, adding many companies are still conducting online interviews for recruiting students. He further said, “We have set a target to provide placement to 40,000 students in the new academic session. So we will bring more and more companies to our campus.” AKTU spokesman Ashish Mishra said, “It is the dream of every student to get a good job after completing the degree. AKTU is aiming to fulfil the dream of students under the Yogi government’s Mission Rozgar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aktu-job-placements-to-40k-students-says-vc/articleshow/79651860.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Gangster’s advocate alleges discrimination||Ludhiana: The advocate of a dreaded gangster, Gaurav Sharma, alias Goru Bacha, has accused the authorities of the Muktsar jail for discriminating with him. He also accused the jail authority for illegally arranging meetings of other jail inmates on the jail premises, whereas there is strict restriction on physical meetings in the jails due to coronavirus outbreak. Advocate Jagtar Singh on Wednesday addressed a press conference and also wrote to the ADGP (prisons) against it. On the other hand, the Muktsar jail superintendent has refused the allegations. Advocate Jagtar Singh stated that Goru Bacha is his client, who is lodged in Muktsar jail. He needed to talk to him, but the jail authorities were not allowing him while stating that as per the new guidelines physical meetings were not allowed due to coronavirus outbreak. For video conferencing also, he has to take permission from the ADGP (prisons), he was told. He alleged that on December 1, when my client was going for his online court hearing he saw that inmates were meeting their kin inside the jail premises, whereas the jail authorities did not allow him to even meet his advocate. He stated that he had written to the ADGP (prisons) to investigate the matter and take action against the superintendent of Muktsar jail. Gurcharan Singh Dhaliwal, superintendent, Muktsar jail, said, “These are baseless allegations. No physical meeting is allowed due to Covid-19 outbreak. I had refused video conferencing of the inmate with his advocate as special permission was required for it. After permission of the ADGP, their online meeting was organised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gangsters-advocate-alleges-discrimination/articleshow/79649955.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB VP Rama Krishna meets MoS (defence)||Hyderabad: Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) vice president, J Rama Krishna on Wednesday met Union minister of state for defence Shripad Yesso Naik in New Delhi and discussed various issues such as releasing of defence service charges, approval of new building bye-laws, implementing BRS and BPS schemes, additional funds for smart Cantonments projects, and employees transfer policy. Rama Krishna also made plea to the defence minister, to visit the SCB. Rama Krishnan told TOI that the MoS would visit Secunderabad Cantonment soon to review developmental activities. He said, “I will fight all the pending issues which have remained unresolved for the past several years. Union Defence Minister has also assured that he will visit SCB.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-vp-rama-krishna-meets-mos-defence/articleshow/79651327.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: TRS tally 56 with victory in Neredmet||HYDERABAD: TRS candidate K Meena Reddy won the Neredmet division election by defeating her nearest rival V Prasanna Naidu of BJP with a margin of 668 votes. Results of 149 GHMC divisions were declared on December 4, but counting in Neredmet was stayed by HC due to different poll marks instead of swastik on ballot papers. The State Election Commission finally took up the counting on Wednesday after HC directed it to treat all votes with different marks as valid too. With this victory, the total number of divisions won by TRS has gone up to 56. The BJP has 48 seats in its kitty, MIM 44 and Congress 2. Meena polled 10,330 votes, while Prasanna got 9,662 votes. Three other candidates from Congress, TDP and an independent lost their deposits. Only 544 votes with distinguished marks on the ballot papers were counted on Wednesday. The counting of ballots with swastik was completed on December 4 itself. TRS was ahead with 505 votes when counting was stopped on December 4 as ballots with distinguished marks (544) was more than the TRS lead. Of these 544 with distinguished marks, TRS finally got 278 votes, BJP 115, Congress 111, TDP 12, independent 3, rejected 17 and NOTA 8. BJP candidate Prasanna, an advocate, told TOI that she would consult the party leadership on approaching the court against the decision of election officials to declare TRS candidate as the winner. “Some of the invalid votes were added to the TRS candidate and later removed after I objected. I have doubts over the entire counting process,” Prasanna said. But election officials said the entire process of counting was kept transparent and done in front of contesting candidates or their election agents. “If you deduct 115 distinguished marked votes of BJP from the 278 with distinguished marks polled by the TRS, the majority of the TRS will come to 163. Add this majority of distinguished votes of 163 to 505 of TRS, the total victory margin comes to 668 votes. There is no foul play,” said Narsing Rao, assistant returning officer, ward no 136, Neredmet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-tally-56-with-victory-in-neredmet/articleshow/79653231.cms||Roushan Ali
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Solo travel picks up pace amid pandemic||Hyderabad: The pandemic seems to have taught people to enjoy their own company as many from the city and elsewhere in the state are planning to take solo trips in the near future. Many said that they will be taking a trip to nearby districts and explore places within the state or in the neighbouring states. “I have never taken a solo trip to date. So, during Christmas I am planning to go to Laknavaram and explore nearby places,” said Santosh B, an entrepreneur. He said that instead of taking public transport, he will be driving down to Laknavaram so that his chances of contracting coronavirus will be minimal. “If I like the experience of a solo trip, I will be taking more short breaks next year. If possible, I want to take workcation so that I get to work from some beautiful place instead of working from home,” he added. Kiran D, a techie, said that he will be taking a solo trip to Bengaluru in 2021. “I have decided to go to Bangalore in January. From there, I will also be going to Mysore and Coorg,” he added. People said that with many long weekends in 2021, they are planning to travel and explore more places in the coming year. “In 2020, we did not go out of the house at all. To make up for it, we are planning to take at least four trips in 2021. While three trips will be to nearby places, I am planning to take a trip abroad, preferably to the Maldives,” said Sri Lakshmi, a private employee. Not just the travellers but survey conducted by travel firms also confirmed the same sentiment as more people are inclined towards taking solo trips now when compared with last year. As per the survey conducted by a well-known travel agency, there is at least a threefold increase in the number of people opting to go on a solo trip in 2021 when compared with 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/solo-travel-picks-up-pace-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79651211.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
December 10, 2020||Pune||Pune cops bust racket behind sub-leasing of hired cars||PUNE: The Yerawada police claimed to have busted a racket involved in hiring cars on lease from service providers in Pune as well as Pimpri Chinchwad and later sub-leasing them on rent to third parties in Maharashtra and Gujarat, following the arrest of three persons on November 23. The police have so far recovered 28 cars the suspects had sub-leased without either paying the rent to the original owners or getting in touch with them over phone for a long time. Some of the cars were also sold off. The police said the prime suspect, hailing from Palghar and currently residing at Lohegaon, was on the run and a search was on for him. The arrested trio helped him run the racket, the police said. Bhosari resident Shridhar Muralidhar Jagtap (36) had lodged a complaint on October 9 with the Yerawada police that a man from Lohegaon had hired his car worth Rs18 lakh for a few days, but neither returned it nor paid the rent. “The suspect did not answer Jagtap’s repeated calls, prompting him to approach the police,” said senior inspector Younus Shaikh of the Yerawada police. The police then registered a case of cheating and breach of criminal trust against the suspect. “During the investigation, we found that the Gujarat police had seized the car of Jagtap in a case of illicit liquor transport. The police found that the man handling the car had hired it from Ashish Pujari (32), Satyaprakash Verma (30), both residents of Palghar, and Ayyan alias Rahul alias Anthony Chettiar (36) of Andheri (East). We found the trio lodged in Taloja jail following their arrest by the Nerul police in a sub-leasing of hired vehicles case. We took the trio’s custody on transfer on November 23 and their interrogation led the busting of the racket here,” said Shaikh. He said, “Our investigation revealed that the prime suspect, who is on the run, had hired 76 cars from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad and had given them on rent to various people in Yavatmal, Nagpur, Akola, Bhandara and other districts. The Navi Mumbai police had recovered another seven cars from their possession.” Inspector Ajay Waghmare of the Yerawada police said, “They had a simple modus operandi. They would call people who rent out their vehicles. After hiring the vehicles, they would promise rent at the time of returning the car. The suspects would then give the car on rent to others for a monthly charge of Rs50,000-60,000.” Some vehicles were given on lease for Rs3-5 lakh for a period of six months after accepting money in advance, Waghmare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-bust-racket-behind-sub-leasing-of-hired-cars/articleshow/79651215.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Multi-level parking at Feroze Gandhi market remains a distant dream||Ludhiana: The wait for the much talked about project of a multi-level car parking in Feroze Gandhi market is still a distant dream for the city residents as the municipal corporation officials did not get the required sanctions from the town planning wing of the local bodies department. The officials are also getting the revised cost of the project prepared. It has been hanging fire since the announcement of a few most important projects under the Smart City Mission and due to chaos in the market the residents wanted this project to be completed on priority. The officials had dropped the tenders for the project in January this year, but due to objections raised by certain senior officials in Chandigarh, the officials were supposed to revise the parking cost. The initial one was somewhere around Rs 65 crore. Similarly, this market was developed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and to make any changes in the initial plans the civic body required the sanction of the LIT authorities. The latter after seeking objections from public had sent it to the town planning wing for sanction. There was one objection against this project. The superintending engineer of bridges and road department and smart city projects, Rahul Gagneja, said, “The project is being reviewed in Chandigarh and once the objections will be removed, we will move ahead.” The multi-level parking is proposed to have double basement and three floors. There will be a capacity to park 650 cars and more than 200 two-wheelers at one time. Meanwhile, the visitors to the market as well as traders feel that the existing space is not enough. A visitor to the market, Gurdeep Singh said, “The market which is known as hub of commercial activities is without proper parking space. The existing parking lots remain jam packed and due to haphazard parking along roadsides the traffic flow usually remains disturbed.” He said parking was the basic requirement for this city and in case the authorities would not act fast on such projects, then what was the need of Smart City Mission. The chairman of Feroze Gandhi Market Traders Association, Col (retd) Harjap Singh, said, “We have raised the issue of jam-packed parking lots with the authorities concerned several times, but these appeals fell on deaf ears.” He said the multi-level car parking should be there but hourly parking was mandatory even for the new system. He claimed that officials should understand the importance of this market and plan accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/multi-level-parking-at-feroze-gandhi-market-remains-a-distant-dream/articleshow/79649988.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||PMPML to start e-bus facility for IT employees||Pune: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) on Wednesday said it would start a special e-bus service in Hinjewadi for the IT employees and talks were on with the companies regarding the same. The move comes a day after the transport body said it would introduce 12 new routes from December 12. “At present, many companies in Hinjewadi are not functioning. Some, which are operational have limited people coming to work. We intend to start a special Hinjewadi bus service for the employees, under which electric air-conditioned buses would be available for them in the mornings and evenings. We are willing to start the service with immediate effect if we get approval from companies,” a senior PMPML official said. Rajendra Jagtap, the chairman and managing director of PMPML, said, “ The plan to start the 12 new routes began two months ago and studies were conducted for the same. A total of 70 buses will ply on the 12 routes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-start-e-bus-facility-for-it-employees/articleshow/79651232.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Rare surgery performed at Hyderabad hospital||HYDERABAD: A 54-year-old who was suffering from a rare disease was operated upon in a city-based hospital. The patient Talha Saleh Al Kaderi, was not only suffering from this rare condition which affects 0.8 in 1 lakh patients in India, but also had uncontrolled diabetes, which made it a complicated case. “He has Necrotising Fascitis, a rapidly life-threatening condition, which affects the skin and subcutaneous tissues,” explained Dr Madhu Vinay Dasari, consultant plastic surgeon Medicover Hospitals, who was part of the team of doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rare-surgery-performed-at-city-hosp/articleshow/79651251.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||PUMTA to seek approval for 70km Metro extension||Pune: Saurabh Rao, chairperson of Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (PUMTA) and Pune divisional commissioner, will seek approval from the state urban development department for nearly 70km Metro line extension from the three Metro lines to be executed by the MahaMetro and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The decision was taken at the PUMTA meeting held on Wednesday. Extensions of the Metro lines to Nigdi, Katraj, Chandani chowk, Kharadi, Hadapsar, Loni Kalbhor, Katraj, Khadakwasla, Warje are part of the integrated Metro network. A detailed DPR of all the lines will be readied after clearance from the state urban development department, stated the divisional commissioner. The first phase of the approved three Metro lines is about 55 km and with the second phase of nearly 70km getting approved, nearly 125km Metro network will be ready for the city, said the divisional commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pumta-to-seek-approval-for-70km-metro-extension/articleshow/79651267.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC orders release of rioting, arson accused under NSA||PRAYAGRAJ: While quashing the detention of a person under the National Security Act (NSA) and ordering his release, the Allahabad high court has observed, “Where the law confers extraordinary power on the executive to detain a person without recourse to the ordinary law of land and to trial by courts, such a law has to be strictly construed and the executive must exercise the power with extreme care”. Allowing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by one Javed Siddiqui challenging his detention under NSA, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinker Diwaker and Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava observed, “The history of personal liberty is largely the history of insistence on observation of the procedural safeguards. The law of preventive detention, though is not punitive, but only preventive, heavily affects the personal liberty of individual enshrined under Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution of India and, therefore, the authority concerned is under obligation to pass detention order according to procedure established by law and will ensure that the constitutional safeguards have been followed.” Coming down heavily on the state authorities concerned for not placing statutory representation of the detenue (the petitioner) within the prescribed time before the Advisory Board, the court said, “It is evident from the record that, while extraordinary haste was shown in taking action against the petitioner, the authorities remained reluctant and there was complete inaction on their part causing unjustified delay in processing the representation of the detenue and in not placing the representation before the Advisory Board. This inaction on the part of the authorities certainly resulted in deprivation on the right of the petitioner of fair opportunity of hearing and it also resulted in denial of the opportunity of fair hearing to the petitioner as provided under law. This is not permissible and is in gross violation of established legal and procedural norms and legal and constitutional protection.” The petitioner, Javed Siddiqui, was accused of violence against Dalits in Jaunpur this year. On June 9, 2020, a brawl among children took a violent turn followed by communal tension in Bhadethi village of Jaunpur wherein over a dozen hutments owned by Dalits were set ablaze and massive damages were caused. As per the FIR in this case, on June 9, Javed Siddiqui along with 80 persons went to the slums of Bhadethi and committed rioting, arson and used castiest words against the inhabitants of the slums. Later, Javed Siddiqui was arrested and on July 10, 2020 and detention order against him was passed by the district magistrate, Jaunpur on the same day under section 3(2) of National Security Act (NSA). The petitioner challenged his detention under NSA saying that he was not given a fair opportunity to present his case before UP Advisory Board, Lucknow to challenge the detention order neither his representation was placed before the advisory board in time nor was he supplied relevant documents with regard to his detention under NSA. The court gave this decision on December 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/allahabad-hc-orders-release-of-rioting-arson-accused-under-nsa/articleshow/79650835.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 10, 2020||Vijayawada||AIIMS finds traces of lead & nickel in Eluru blood samples||HYDERABAD: Authorities at the All Indian Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi found clear traces of lead and nickel in 25 of 45 blood samples of Eluru mystery ailment in AP even as 19 more fell ill. Authorities said remaining 20 samples were marked as delayed in arrival and lead traces could have deposited in bones by then. AP health authorities also said lead, pesticides along with other probable sources are being looked at for the cause of illness that has left nearly 600 people sick and one dead, with frothing, shivering, loss of consciousness among other symptoms. Dr A Shariff of AIIMS Delhi (clinical ecotoxicology) told TOI that the percentage of lead in the blood samples vary from 15 micrograms to 100 grams per decilitre. “Lead gets deposited in bones as time lapses and doesn’t even show up in urine. Tests done on cerebrospinal fluid didn’t find any inflammation. Other test results are yet to come. If other tests find nothing, then lead would be the culprit,” Shariff added. Investigators shall look for dump sites of batteries which are possible sources of lead near the water sources. “Open-air melting of lead should be looked into and the pesticide angle should also be investigated,” said Dr Shariff. AIIMS Delhi and AIIMS Mangalagiri teams lead by medical superintendent Dr Rakesh Kakkar on Wednesday visited Eluru again and collected fresh samples. Most of the cases of the mystery illness reported were in and around Powerpet area of Eluru. Dr S Chandrashekar from the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology said water samples tested so far have no heavy metals. “Some more water samples shall be analysed. We just started testing blood samples. We haven’t concluded anything so far on it. The old water supply pipes with lead may be one of the multiple possibilities,” he added. During the day, AP health commissioner K Bhaskar said vegetables, fruits, soil and all other probable sources are being examined. “While lead and pesticides continue to be concentrated upon, investigations pertaining to other pathogens, probable sources also being carried out,” he added. Bhaskar said the mass convulsions and the subsequent decrease of lead content in the blood of patients after being admitted indicate it’s a case of acute exposure and not chronic exposure. “This basically means that at this point in time it seems like a one-time spurt and the impact is limited to Eluru,” he added. Cases have been reported from Eluru rural mandal and Denduluru mandal also where the source of water supply is not through municipal corporation, he said. “People consuming mineral water on regular basis have also been affected,” he added. AP Pollution Control Board has sent 10 water samples collected from Godavari and Eluru drinking water treatment facility and sent them to the lab at Vishakhapatnam. Joint Environmental Engineer of APPCB T Rajendar Reddy said, “We have sent the samples and awaiting results. The ambient air quality is normal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aiims-finds-traces-of-lead-nickel-in-eluru-blood-samples/articleshow/79653245.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 10, 2020||Meerut||By denying people right to protest, BJP govts showing dictatorial side: Bhim Army chief||MEERUT: It was midnight when Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad realized that he was under house arrest in his native village, Chhutmalpur, in UP’s Saharanpur district. On Tuesday morning, the day designated for Bharat Bandh by the agitating farmers, the contingent outside his house had swelled into a sizable force comprising local police and units of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and RAF. “This is no longer a farmers’ agitation. There are millions of labourers and Dalits associated with farming who will also get drastically affected by these draconian laws. I wanted to send this message through my support for Bharat Bandh but BJP has proved once again its dictatorial tendencies. To protest is my democratic right and also the right of shop-owners who the government had threatened into keeping their shops open or face the music. A majority doesn't mean your decisions are always right,” Azad told TOI. By Tuesday morning, Azad’s supporters had begun assembling at his home but police stopped them at the entrance itself. According to Azad, he had plans to go to Gagalhedi, Nagal (both in Saharanpur) and from there to the Delhi border via Meerut. A visibly agitated Dalit leader whose newly launched Azad Samaj Party made a debut in the recent bypolls, lodged a scathing attack on the “double standards” of the ruling party. “It is the same party (BJP) that rose to power using democratic means but now it is denying others even peaceful demonstration against their policies. On the other hand, it is the same party which keeps agitating in West Bengal and even using violent means at times,” he said. Showing complete solidarity with the agitating farmers, the Bhim Army leader said, “A wrong impression is being created that the protest is confined to Haryana and Punjab farmers. The way BJP state governments are curbing the voice of dissent, it is a clear sign that the public is winning against their suppressive policies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/by-denying-people-right-to-protest-bjp-govts-showing-dictatorial-side-bhim-army-chief/articleshow/79644974.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 10, 2020||Pune||Traffic cops recover Rs 35,000 fine from Mumbai businessman||PUNE: The traffic police recovered pending fine of Rs 35,000 from a Mumbai-based businessman after his Skoda car was caught for over speeding at Bhairoba nullah chowk on Pune-Solapur road around 9.45am on Wednesday. Assistant inspector Govind Jadhav from Wanowrie traffic police said, “We signalled an over speeding car to stop in a drive to recover pending fines from erring vehicles. We found that Skoda car owner Dilip Sanwarlal Mistry from Tardeo had not paid pending fine since July 2018 after the vehicle registration number was keyed in the traffic police application. Mistry paid fine via credit card after we appealed to him to clear the pending dues.” Jadhav said, “The police in Mumbai and Pune had sent e-challans to Mistry after his car was caught on CCTV cameras for committing traffic offences like over speeding, jumping signal and parking his car in no parking zones at various places like Pune-Mumbai expressway, eastern freeway and Pune-Bengaluru highway. Mistry told police that he had received text messages to pay fines on numerous occasions but did not clear the dues.” “Mistry did not resist police action when he was told to pay the fine. He told us that he will henceforth drive at a speed of 80kmph,” Jadhav added. On the police action, Mistry, an interior contractor, told TOI, “I had not paid fine for a long time due to financial constraints, lockdown enforcement, and busy work schedule. The policemen requested me to pay the fine. I responded positively to their appeal. I assured them that I will not violate traffic norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-cops-recover-rs-35k-fine-from-mumbai-businessman/articleshow/79651253.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 10, 2020||Pune||Cops bust 3 sex rackets, nine arrested||Pune: The Bhosari police on late Tuesday night busted three sex rackets being run at three lodges in Bhosari and rescued nine women forced into prostitution after the arrest of nine people. Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash supervised the operation. The action was taken after a social organization, Harmony Foundation, got information regarding it. Assistant commissioner of police (Pimpri Chinchwad) Sagar Kavade and team raided the three lodges. The arrested suspects include persons that were running the sex rackets and also lodge owners, the officer said. Abraham Mathai, the chairman of Harmony Foundation, said, “We highly commend Krishna Prakash for sanctioning the rescue mission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-bust-3-sex-rackets-nine-arrested/articleshow/79651313.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Allahabad||Even estranged wife’s consent must for child adoption: Court||Prayagraj: In an important judgment, the Allahabad high court has held that even if a married Hindu man has estranged wife, i.e., living apart but not divorced, even then he needs prior consent of his alienated wife for adoption of a child under Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act. Dismissing a writ petition filed by one Bhanu Pratap Singh of Mau district, Justice JJ Munir observed, “The proviso makes it imperative for a Hindu male to secure his wife’s consent to an adoption that he makes, unless she has completely and finally renounced the world, or has ceased to be a Hindu, or has been declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be of unsound mind.” The petitioner, Bhanu Pratap Singh, had requested for appointment on compassionate grounds in the forest department of the state after the death of his uncle Rajendra Singh. According to the petitioner, in the year 2001 he was adopted by his uncle, Rajendra Singh, who had alienated his wife Phulmati and had no child from the marriage. Therefore, he was entitled for job as per the provisions of ‘The Uttar Pradesh Recruitment of Dependants of Government Servants Dying-in-Harness Rules, 1974’ because he was sole heir and dependant of his adopter, who was an employee of the forest department at the time of his death. Subsequently, on December 17, 2016, the forest department rejected the plea of the petitioner for appointment on compassionate grounds. Hence, this rejection was challenged in the present petition before the high court. The court, while declining to interfere in the rejection order passed by the forest department, dismissed the petition holding that adoption was not in accordance with law. While giving this judgement, the court further observed, “There is no doubt that Smt. Phulmati was a wife living until the death of the late Rajendra Singh. The two were never divorced, howsoever estranged they might have been,” observed the court while dismissing the petition. The court gave this judgment on November 25 and came to light on December 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/even-estranged-wifes-consent-must-for-child-adoption-court/articleshow/79650842.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
December 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Driving licence now mandatory to buy vehicles||PUNE: Now, driving licence will be necessary for buying as well as servicing of vehicle. Senior officials at the Pune regional transport office (RTO) said on Wednesday that letters regarding the arrangements would be sent to all vehicle dealers, showrooms and service centres. “Instructions will be given to ensure that if anyone comes to a showroom to buy a vehicle, the dealer should check the driving licence of the buyer. If someone has come to drop a vehicle at a service centre, the person’s licence needs to be checked. Having a valid driving licence is a regulation and has to be followed,” deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Sasane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/licence-now-mandatory-to-buy-vehicles/articleshow/79651298.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Make thermal screening, Covid -ve certificates must for travellers ahead of Christmas, NY, say district monitoring committees for Doon & Nainital||Nainital: To check the spread of Covid-19 during Christmas and New Year, the high court appointed district-level monitoring committees at Nainital and Dehradun suggested that thermal screening of travellers from other states and Covid-negative certificates for them be made mandatory once again. A bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani had earlier directed the committees to submit their plans to tackle the huge rush of tourists likely to the hill state on Christmas and New Year. On Wednesday, the government told the court that that it would take the suggestions into consideration while making the necessary arrangements. The bench then directed the state to file an affidavit in this regard by December 23, when the case would be heard next. According to the report submitted by the Nainital committee, over 4000 vehicles are expected in the lake town on New Year’s Eve and handling such a crowd would be a challenge for the administration. It said that all travellers entering the town should be screened for Covid apart from random testing at various places. It added that the upper Mall Road should also remain closed for vehicles from 2pm to midnight on New Year’s Eve to ensure social distancing. Meanwhile, the Dehradun committee suggested that Covid-negative certificates, not older than 72 hours, should once again be made mandatory for those coming from high-load areas. “If such travellers are not carrying these certificates, they should be tested at the border checkpoints at their own cost,” it said. It also said that police should make sure that hotels in Rishikesh and Mussoorie are not filled beyond capacity during the festive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/make-thermal-screening-covid-ve-certificates-must-for-travellers-ahead-of-christmas-ny-say-district-monitoring-committees-for-doon-nainital/articleshow/79648952.cms||Prashant Jha
December 10, 2020||Pune||Rehabilitation of slum dwellers at crucial spot on fast track||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has expedited the rehabilitation process for slum dwellers from Kamgar Putala area. The hearing and consultation process is expected to be completed over the next 10 days, after which the process of actual rehabilitation will begin. The vacated land is to be allotted for two metro projects. The civic body and the slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) had asked residents to submit documents showing proof of residence. About 500 residents have submitted the documents so far. The administration has issued notices to residents, who are still to submit documents. Work on the metro project has not progressed in the area since the rehabilitation process remains incomplete.A PMC official said, “We will be holding hearings in the next 10 days. The residents will be told to furnish documents that have not been submitted. We have also received letters from some residents, who want to be part of the rehabilitation process. All these cases will be scrutinized over 10 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rehabilitation-of-slum-dwellers-at-crucial-spot-on-fast-track/articleshow/79651293.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||Search on for teen suspect in girl’s murder in Khed||Pune: The Chakan police are looking for a 17-year-old boy suspected of throttling a 16-year-girl from a farmer’s family to death following a quarrel over some petty issue while grazing cattle in the woods near their house at Gonvadi village in Khed taluka on Tuesday evening. The police said the victim’s younger sister was with them at the time of the incident and rushed back home to alert her grandmother after witnessing the boy throttling her elder sister with a bamboo stick used for directing cattle. But by the time they could reach the spot, the boy had run away and the victim was lying motionless, the police added. She was rushed to a hospital where she was declared dead following a medical examination.Assistant inspector Prakash Rathod of the Chakan police told TOI, “The girl’s family had raised the boy after finding him abandoned at Trimbakeshwar in Nashik district. He was living on the premises of the bungalow of the family. The boy and the girl would often quarrel over petty domestic work issues. They had a quarrel over some issue on Monday too.” Rathod cited the details narrated by the victim’s younger sister saying, “The girl, her sister and the boy had gone for grazing cattle about a kilometre away from their bungalow on Tuesday. While the girl was listening songs on her smartphone, the boy all of sudden snatched the gadget, banged it on the ground, snatched the bamboo stick from her and pressed it on her throat as she fell on the ground.”The officer added, “On seeing the incident, the younger sister ran towards her home. She came back to the spot with her grandmother. The boy had by then left the spot. As the girl was motionless, the grandmother took help from another boy and took her to the hospital.”The police said search was on to trace the boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/search-on-for-teen-suspect-in-girls-murder-in-khed/articleshow/79651329.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Land acquisition for Ganga expressway to begin this month||LUCKNOW: The land acquisition for the Ganga expressway will start this month, said chief executive officer (CEO) of the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) Awanish Awasthi while inaugurating a three-day training programme for district officials. The training programme is being organised for officials of 12 districts from Meerut to Prayagraj through which the proposed Ganga e-way is to pass. The CEO told the officials that the land acquisition for the expressway would start this month and they should get themselves acquainted with land laws to avoid any delay in the process. He advised them to adopt the same mechanism which was followed in acquiring land for the Purvanchal expressway as it proved to be a foolproof process. Awasthi exhorted officials to complete land acquisition as soon as possible as the project has to be inaugurated in June next year. Nearly 6,000-hectare land, totalling Rs 9,000 crore, is to be acquired for the Ganga e-way. Later, Awasthi left for Gorakhpur as Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will inspect the Gorakhpur link expressway on Thursday. The CM is camping in Gorakhpur to inaugurate a three-day session on the development of the eastern Uttar Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/land-acquisition-for-ganga-e-way-to-begin-this-month/articleshow/79652020.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Varanasi||Cane farmers paid Rs 1.12L crore in UP even in Corona times: CM||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath slammed the Opposition by referring to the sale of 21 sugar mills in previous regimes at throwaway prices hitting sugarcane farmers and said BJP government opened new sugar mills at Pipraich and Munderva. Speaking at the inauguration of sulphur-less plant of sugar mill in Pipraich, CM Yogi said, “Previous governments sold 21 sugar mills of the state as part of a conspiracy, but when our government came, we opened sugar mills at Pipraich in Gorakhpur and at Munderwa in Basti which process four times more sugarcane.” More sugar mills will be opened in the state once Covid-19 is under control once the vaccine arrives, Yogi added. “We operated 119 sugar mills of the state even during the corona pandemic and paid a record Rs 1.12 lakh crore to cane farmers which is more than the annual budget of many states,” Yogi added. “I congratulate all of you as the mills of Pipraich and Munderwa will be the first in the state where sulphur-less, refined sugar will be produced. This sweetness of Purvanchal will reach the world’s largest hotels, hospitals and other institutions and give a new identity to sugarcane farmers of east UP,” he added. Pipraich and Munderwa sugar mills established in 1932 were closed in 1999. The farmers were lathicharged when they protested, said Yogi, adding BJP government has brought back the smile on the face of farmers by reopening them. CM Yogi also inaugurated the sulphur-less sugar plant at Munderwa in Basti from Pipraich as his chopper was not able to land in Basti due to dense fog. “Sugar mills are also producing electricity and I want them to produce jaggery, packed sugarcane juice and ethanol also and provide employment to youth,” Yogi said. CM Yogi said the work done for farmer’s benefit in the last six years during Modi government was not done in 60-65 years after independence. “Modi government is sending Rs 6,000 per year directly in farmers’ accounts and mediators are restless as they are not able to loot farmers’ benefits. They are not able to digest the prosperity of farmers and are defaming the government under conspiracy,” he added. “Some people had said the money transfer to farmers will stop after the election, but it is not the laptop of the Samajwadi government that will be asked to return after distribution. During Congress regimes, 90% of the farmers’ benefit went to mediators,” he said. Enumerating the achievements of his government, CM Yogi said, “Development is taking place in the state. The road from Gorakhpur to Pipraich has become smooth. Medical colleges are being constructed and youth are being provided employment, the poor are getting houses. Opposition is not able to understand how so many people are getting houses and electricity. Actually, the state is the same, machinery is the same but loot has stopped. We don’t divide society on the lines of caste and religion. For us only one family is not important, but all 24 crore people are our family.” “They were not able to even control encephalitis, but we brought the encephalitis death rate to minimum even during Covid outbreak,” the CM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cane-farmers-paid-rs-1-12l-crore-in-up-even-in-corona-times-cm/articleshow/79650876.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Pune||Pimple Nilakh man gets 10 years’ jail for raping minor||PUNE: Special Judge (POCSO Act) S H Gwalani on Tuesday convicted and sentenced a 53-year-old man to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old mentally challenged girl twice at a building in Budhwar Peth sometime before June 16, 2018. Judge Gwalani held that the convict, Raju alias Dashi Imansing Tamang of Pimple Nilakh, deserved no leniency in punishment, considering the seriousness of the crime. The coordinator of a child rights panel had lodged an FIR with the Faraskhana police on June 16, 2018, based on the information by a social worker that a 13-year-old girl had been sexually assaulted in the Budhwar Peth building. During verification, the girl had narrated that a “cook uncle” on the third floor of the building had twice called and touched her inappropriately, besides sexually assaulting her. Police investigations established Tamang as the suspect, who was working as a cook at an establishment in the building. The court has also imposed a Rs5,000 fine on the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pimple-nilakh-man-gets-10-years-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79651331.cms||Vishwas Kothari
December 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Experts seek more time to zero in on cause of Eluru’s mystery illness||Amaravati/Eluru: Experts from different premier national and international research institutions have sought more time to ascertain the exact cause of the mysterious illness among residents of Eluru, West Godavari. Based on initial studies, experts are divided in their views and said they want to take up more investigations to determine the agent behind the sudden illness. Scientists from CCMB, IICT, WHO, NIN, AIIMS and the public health department have camped in Eluru town and are carrying out in-depth studies on the illness. Experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO) suspect that the spraying and mixing of high quantities of chlorine and bleaching powder as part of Covid-19 containment measures by the local civic body might be behind the mystery illness. Meanwhile, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy took stock of the situation in Eluru with scientists, researchers, medical officers and senior officials on Wednesday. Responding to the views expressed by experts, the chief minister suggested they first focus on issues related to water contamination and take up immediate remedial measures. The chief minister expressed satisfaction about the quality of healthcare provided to patients and the dip in the number of cases. “We are ready to take up comprehensive measures after getting the final investigation reports from all the agencies. First focus on the water contamination issues to provide immediate relief to the public,” the chief minister said. The chief minister also directed officials to ready a roadmap based on fimal reports to prevent similar incidents. During a video-conference with the chief minister, experts said they were yet to arrive at the exact causes for the illness as many of their suspicions have not been confirmed with the test results. On the high level of nickel in blood samples drawn from patients, AIIMS professors told the chief minister that there is no cause for worry as it is a common phenomenon among Indians. Initial reports have shown abnormal levels of lead and nickel in blood samples. Experts said they are waiting for more reports to confirm if lead was the single agent that caused the illness. They however, said lead levels have also been drastically coming down within 24 hours among patients who have recovered. Stating that lead levels in air were high before the country switched to unleaded petrol, experts said that the recycling of batteries might also have led to the sudden illness. “The used batteries are not being disposed off in a scientific way. The chemical left over in the batteries might have got absorbed into soils and led to the poisoning of vegetables or water,” experts said. Meanwhile, the illness appears to be on the decline with only 19 fresh cases reported on Wednesday. According to official data, 578 people were hospitalised, of which 471 were discharged after treatment. At present, 76 patients are receiving treatment, including 23 serious cases hospitalised in Vijayawada. Scientists from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) collected samples from the Government General Hospital in Eluru, from cattle, insects and pesticides used in agriculture. They also collected samples from households in Eluru and surrounding areas. Test results from AIIMS and IICT are expected to arrive on Thursday while test results from CCMB are expected within a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/experts-seek-more-time-to-zero-in-on-cause-of-elurus-mystery-illness/articleshow/79648959.cms||Samdani MN
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath hands out job letters to 3,209 tubewell operators||LUCKNOW: Handing out employment letters to 3,209 tubewell operators, including 516 women on Wednesday, CM Yogi Adityanath said the move was part of the ongoing effort to generate employment under Mission Rozgar and a big step to benefit farmers. “Not only were appointments done after nine years, but a qualification criteria of ITI pass was set for the first time and the selection process was conducted in a transparent manner by UPSSSC,” the chief minister said. The state government is committed to ensuring maximum jobs for youth under Mission Rozgar and we have set a target of 4 lakh jobs in four years,” he said. During Wednesday’s ceremony, the chief minister personally gave appointment letters to Shobhit Shukla, Sujit Narayan, Arun Kumar, Khyati Sharma and Kanchan Nishad and interacted with other candidates via video conferencing. He spoke to Pradeep Kumar Patel from Prayagraj, Shivani Pal from Kanpur, Sophiya from Agra, Arjun Kumar from Bareilly, Rahul Pal from Varanasi, Aditya Kumar Singh from Gorakhpur, Archana Samadhiya from Orai, Parul Maurya from Ayodhya, Paramjeet Singh from Rampur, Vinod Kumar from Pratapgarh and Vikas Kumar from Saharanpur. Congratulating them, the CM asked if they faced problems during the recruitment process or someone had to put in a word on their behalf. “It is only when you elect a good government and upright public representatives that you get clean and unbiased governance. You should work in the same way in which you were selected,” he told them. “PM Narendra Modi has set a target of 2022 for doubling income of farmers,” he said. An excellent mechanism has been put in place from farming to sale at markets and this will help unshackle farmers from exploiters, he added. “We are making water and fertilizers available to farmers on time. The soil is also being tested and based on results, farmers can decide what they want to grow. The PM has safeguarded rights of farmers through MSP. Through Kisan Samman Nidhi, Rs 2.20 crore has been made available to farmers,” the CM said. There are 34,401 tubewells in the state which help irrigate 23 lakh hectare land. For this, 18,811posts had been approved, but only 9,198 tubewell operators were employed. Each must look after operations of four tubewells. The CM said, recruitment of tubewell operators was an essential move and the post is linked to the spirit of service. “By saving water, one can provide a better future to next generations and it’s important to educate farmers about the ‘one drop more crop’ scheme. We have also ensured regular power supply in rural areas for seamless operation of tubewells,” he said. He said, the government helped more than 15 lakh people get employment in the private sector while 1.5 crore had been helped to become self-employed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-2k-tubewell-operators-appointed-after-9-years/articleshow/79651891.cms||Neha Lalchandani
December 10, 2020||Kanpur||SP chief meets family of slainlab technician||Kanpur: Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday met family members of lab technician Sanjeet Yadav, who was murdered by his abductors in June, at their residence in Barra area of the city and assured them of justice. “The accused won’t be able to get rid of the law. Justice will be done in this case and the culprits will be severely punished if SP returns to power,” Akhilesh told reporters here. During the meeting, which went on for about half-an-hour, the parents and sister of Sanjeet told the former chief minister about the callous attitude of the city police and urged him to help them in getting justice. He keenly listened and expressed empathy with them and assured them of providing every possible help from the party’s side. The SP leader thereafter visited the party office in Naveen Market and attacked the Yogi Adityanath government over the deteriorating law and order across the state. “Law and order has crumbled. Nobody feels safe any more.” He added that the state government only knows how to take credit of the development work done during the SP regime. To recall, the SP chief had in August given a cheque of Rs 2 lakhs as financial assistance to Sanjeet’s family. Earlier, the SP had provided Sanjeet’s family with Rs 5 lakh. To recall, a 28-year-old Sanjeet was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22 and murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu river. The police had till date arrested five accused including a woman in this connection but all efforts to find Sanjeet’s body proved futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sp-chief-meets-family-of-slainlab-technician/articleshow/79651226.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 10, 2020||Goa||PPE kits for Covid positive voters at ZP poll booths in Goa||PANAJI: The Goa State Election Commission (SEC) has spared no efforts to provide a safe and sanitised environment for Covid positive persons to cast their votes for the zilla panchayat elections on December 12 between 4 pm and 5 pm. However, people who are part of the election preparation say that it will be a difficult task for SEC if a separate SOP for covid patients at polling booths is not issued. “One cannot deny Covid patients the right to vote but at the same time, necessary arrangement has to be put in place so that there are no safety issues both for the officials as well as the other electors who will come to vote during that time,” said an official who attended a training session of SEC. All necessary arrangements will be made to provide PPE kits for Covid patients at the polling booth across the state. Based on the number of persons, the required PPE kits and gloves will be forwarded by the returning officers to the block development officers (BLOs) which will be used when they come to the polling station. A senior officer said that once the person arrives at the polling station he should report to the SEC official. There will be a separate queue for them. The officer added that Covid patients will be given priority to cast their votes. As per guidelines, all voters are to be thermally screened at the entrance of the polling station. To ensure social distancing norms are followed, circles will be marked on the ground at 2m distance for voters to stand in a queue outside the polling station. If the temperature of a person is above the specified mark, the voter will be asked to sit in the shade for 10 minutes and a second reading will be taken. If the second reading is still higher than the prescribed norms, then the voter will be asked to return during the last polling hour between 4pm and 5pm. Covid positive persons who are in isolation will be allowed to cast their vote during the same last hour of polling. The block development officer will be instructed to identify the Covid positive persons at each polling station. The person will then display their identity proof to the polling staff and apply indelible ink themselves, monitored by the polling officer. As safety concern is being raised at the polling booth, an officer said the government could have given the option of postal ballot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ppe-kits-for-covid-ve-voters-at-zp-poll-booths/articleshow/79651420.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: 10,000-km roads to be laid in villages under PMGSY||LUCKNOW: Aiming to expedite its rural outreach ahead of 2022 Assembly elections, the BJP government has rolled out a fresh plan to construct 10,000km of village roads under phase-2 of PM Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). The plan comes days after the state government initiated the process for construction of 9,000km of roads under the ambitious central scheme. According to the proposal mooted by the rural development department, the scheme is proposed to be implemented in 68 districts, excluding GB Nagar, Badaun, Varanasi, Ballia, Kanpur Dehat, Kannauj and Auraiya. The plan seeks to construct 78 roads spanning over a distance of over 620km in Rae Bareli, the parliamentary constituency of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Likewise, 861km of rural roads are proposed to be taken up in Allahabad, 864km in Gonda, 572km in Hardoi, 464km in Kushinagar and 368km in Azamgarh. “The plan is in initial stage and will soon be taken up for implementation,” confirmed chief executive officer of UP Rural Road Development Agency Sujit Kumar. The department is preparing detailed project reports for roads proposed to be taken up in the second phase. Sources said that the PWD and the rural development would be required to get the project approved by the Centre under due guidelines of PMGSY which suggest that every road project should be part of the core network. Also, keeping connectivity in mind, preference should be given to roads which serve other habitations too. Kumar said that the department would take the project proposal to the Centre by March .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10000-km-roads-to-be-laid-in-villages-under-pmgsy/articleshow/79651927.cms||Pankaj Shah
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 vaccine to come in multiple doses, each must to get individual protection, herd immunity||LUCKNOW: Even as development of the covid-19 vaccine is in the final stages, it is almost certain that the vaccine will come in multiple doses. The state government has given clear instructions to the state health department to make adequate arrangements to ensure availability of storage space, required syringes and conduct necessary training of staff for the impending campaign. Sources confided that the vaccine will reach the storage units in the state in 4-5 weeks. “Eyes are set on four vaccines being tried in the country. And all of them come in multiple doses,” said a senior health official. According to union health ministry documents, most covid-19 vaccines will come in two doses and be administered through the intra-muscular route. Take the example of the vaccine being manufactured at the Serum Institute of India. This one is to given in two doses are – on zero and 28th day. Experts pointed out that compliance was a challenge with multiple doses especially in a place like UP where the numbers are huge besides the regular challenges of lack of awareness and related fears. “People enthusiastically take the first dose but become lackadaisical about the subsequent one,” said a retired government doctor who worked extensively with Polio and Measles Rubella campaigns in the state. “The fact that needs to be underscored is that missing successive doses will fall in the category of incomplete immunization which defeats the purpose of the programme. The reason: while on one hand it does not provide individual protection, on the other hand it also retards progress towards achievement of herd immunity needed to overpower the virus in communities, countries and the world,” explained DrPraful Bharadwaj, health officer Unicef UP which is helping the government in taking the programme forward. Preparations for the vaccine porgramme are being monitored by the chief minister on a daily basis. Reviewing the progress on Wednesday, the CM instructed the state home department to come up with a fool-proof plan for security of storage places. As per information at least 35,000 storage units have been created for the purpose. Officials informed that the vaccine carrying vans will be tracked live online with the help of onboard GPS (Global Positioning System). The CM told health officials to refer to lessons learnt during the Measles Rubella and Polio campaigns to plug in any gaps. Meanwhile, training of the staff for the programme has been rolled out and selected staff will be trained in batches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/multi-dose-vaccination-a-tough-task/articleshow/79651960.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||As fish catch in Bay dwindles, price hike on Sankranti likely||Visakhapatnam: Fish prices are expected to rise during the peak season of Sankranti in January following a drastic reduction in catch in the Bay of Bengal since November. Fishermen claimed that every year the demand for fish remains at a peak during the Sankranti period. To meet the demand, they procure and store fish from October to December when fish catch in the Bay of Bengal usually remains high and demand for fish in the wholesale and retail markets remains low because of the auspicious Karthika maasam. “But for reasons unknown the catch this year is very low since mid-November. If the trend continues, we are afraid that we will not be able to meet the peak season demand. It will have an effect on fish price in wholesale and retail markets,” M Bulaya, a boat owner from Visakhapatnam told TOI. A similar situation prevails at Pudimadaka and other fish landing centres in the district and in parts of the state. “Whatever information we are receiving from fishermen it seems fish population has again started dwindling along the coast of Visakhapatnam,” said Arijili Dasu, a fisherman activist who runs an NGO for the fishermen community. Environmentalists claimed that fish population along the coastline of Visakhapatnam has been on the decline for around the last decade. But the lockdown to contain Covid-19 saw an increase in fish population alongside a drop in marine pollution. With the situation normalising and industries along the coast gradually reopening, seawater is turning polluted once again. The effect: a fall in marine population along the coast. “Only in November when we carried out a post-lockdown survey we were thrilled to see that pH level of sea water along the coastline of Visakhapatnam has jumped from its average of 6.5 to 7 to 8.5 which is as per international standards. On Monday we carried out another survey at two beaches and found the pH level has reduced to 8.3” said Anupam Ghosh, an environmentalist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-fish-catch-in-bay-dwindles-price-hike-on-sankranti-likely/articleshow/79648972.cms||Arpit Basu
December 10, 2020||Kanpur||Roads to be named after all martyred Bikru policemen||Kanpur:The public works department (PWD) is all set to name roads in Bikru martyrs’ native places after them. The state government has taken a decision to this effect, informed PWD sources. “The decision to name roads in native places of Bikru martyrs, who died in the line of duty, was approved by government recently,” informed Diwakar Shukla, chief engineer PWD. According to a senior PWD official, road projects have been identified in Agra, Allahabad, Pratapgarh, Banda, Jhansi, Mathura and Raebareli. Eight policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Mishra and three sub-inspectors — Mahesh Chandra Yadav, Anup Kumar Singh, Nebu Lal — and constables Sultan Singh, Rahul, Babloo and Jitendra were killed during a raid to nab a criminal in Bikru village in Chaubeypur police area of Kanpur on July 2 & 3 night. The police team were out to look for Vikas Dubey, a dreaded gangster, accused of attempt to murder by a villager. They were about to conduct the raid on the basis of that first information report (FIR) in Bikru village under Chaubepur police station area, when they were attacked by the gangster and his aides and they attained martyrdom.  “These roads will carry signages mentioning the names of the martyred cops and other necessary details. The idea, is to honour their native places in the hope of inspiring others,” said another senior official. Appreciating the move, family members of CO Devendra Kumar Mishra said,“This is a kind gesture initiated by the state government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/roads-to-be-named-after-all-martyred-bikru-policemen/articleshow/79651278.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Mutt room turns into ICU, 10 doctors for 24x7 care||Ayodhya: The Ayodhya district administration has deputed nine government doctors to take round-the-clock care of ailing Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, president of Ram Mandir Trust, who was discharged from Medanta Hospital, Lucknow, and brought to his Ayodhya mutt through a green corridor on Wednesday. A special room with a high glass wall at Maniram Chawni, high seat of seers and residence of the mahant, has been turned into a virtual intensive care unit (ICU) with oxygen cylinders, blood transfusion units and a compact medical infrastructure in place. Pilgrims and his followers can have a darshan of the 83-year-old seer through the glass partition. Apart from nine-member medical team, an expert physician from Delhi has been airdashed to Ayodhya to cater to any emergency. Of nine doctors deputed at the mutt, three will be on eight-hour shift along with six ward boys. Ayodhya DM Anuj Kumar Jha said, “I will regularly seek a health report and supervise the health care at Maniram Chawni.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mutt-room-turns-into-icu-10-doctors-for-24x7-care/articleshow/79652000.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
December 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 recovery rate above 95%, crosses national average||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate for Uttar Pradesh crossed 95% mark on Wednesday surpassing the national average, officials said. “The total number of patients to have survived Covid-19 infection has reached 5.3 lakh which is over 95% of the total caseload,” said additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal. Data shows that UP’s recovery rate was slightly better than the national average of 94%. Officials said UP’s daily caseload has dipped to July level Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, however, urged people not to drop their guard against coronavirus. Reviewing the situation, the CM told officials to ensure that contact tracing and surveillance activities remain on top gear. “The number of cases may be declining but the risk of contracting infection remains the same. Therefore, prevention is the best option,” Sehgal said. In another development, the CM directed health officials to ensure there is no shortage of beds or medicines in cities. He also asked district officials to ensure that there are no lapses in patient care services. Officials said recoveries continued to remain more than the new cases. However, 21 people succumbed to complications caused by coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/states-covid-recovery-rate-above-95-crosses-natl-avg/articleshow/79651982.cms||Shailvee Sharda
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Consumers rue steep hike in fuel prices||HYDERABAD: Steep hike in fuel prices is burning a hole in the pocket of many consumers. The consumption of petrol and diesel has increased as many are preferring to avoid public transport in these pandemic times. There are over 750 outlets belonging to three oil companies in and around the city. With crude oil prices increasing by $7 per barrel in the international market since November 9, the petrol price increased by Rs 2.81 in the city. Petrol was Rs 84.25 on November 9 and now it is Rs 87.06. Diesel was Rs 76.84 on November 9 and now it is costing Rs 80.60. In the last five days alone petrol has a sharp rise of Rs 1.42 per litre. After September, the price of diesel per litre increased by Rs 3.15. Dealers attribute this increase in fuel prices to the fluctuating prices in international market. “Based on the hike in crude oil prices in the international market, fuel prices are fluctuating, and oil firms have to adjust accordingly,” said TC Goel, advisor of Hyderabad Petrol and Diesel Dealers Association. However, it is a fact that fuel is one of the most taxed commodity in India. It is also not part of the GST. As per the websites of oil companies, the base price of petrol is around 27 while the rest are taxes levied by centre and the states. “In Telangana, the state government is collecting 35.2 percent of VAT in petrol and 27 percent in diesel,” Goel said. Fuel has become a basic need for several consumers. “After the lockdown, the usage of vehicles increased in the city. Though fuel hikes are a burden, there is no other option left for people like us,” said G Purnachanadra Rao, a consumer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consumers-rue-steep-hike-in-fuel-prices/articleshow/79651373.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||A family hit hard by viruses, first HIV then Covid||Nagpur: A feeble Reena (name changed) narrates her story nonchalantly as her 12-year-old daughter sits expressionless. Suddenly, Reena breaks down even as her daughter, a rape survivor, sits unmoved. Covid has brought bad times for the family, where both parents are battling HIV. Reena’s husband Mahesh (name changed) used to operate a rented taxi. Covid brought an abrupt end to the business, forcing him to return the vehicle, and he is now without any means of income. Unable to pay rent, they had to leave their home in a low-income pocket of the city. The family decided to split, so the husband and wife could stay at the houses of relatives, hoping to stay till the crisis ended. Reena went to her grand-mother’s house with a daughter and son. Mahesh went to his mother’s place, where his 12-year-old daughter was already staying since December. Mahesh’s mother, who is reported to be suffering from diabetes and blood pressure, had asked the girl over to look after her. However, Mahesh’s stepfather allegedly raped the minor girl from March to August. In April, Mahesh too had shifted to stay with his mother and stepfather. The girl’s statement in the FIR says that she did not reveal it to her father then as she was threatened of dire consequences by the perpetrator. She finally broke her silence in August, and the man was arrested. A hearing was held at the court in this case on Tuesday. “We were told that summons will be issued for the next date,” said Reena. TOI met Reena and her daughter, who is the rape survivor, at the Red Cross office, which helps HIV positive persons. They are among the many families hit hard by hardships brought along by Covid. Reena discovered she was HIV positive during her pregnancy. Her husband had it before marriage. The kids are, however, not infected. “Mahesh was still jobless when he had to leave his mother’s place. Even I had to leave my grandmother’s house as I could not continue to be a burden on the relatives. My mother is no more,” Reena said. Without any means of income, the family went to a different rented house. They are unable to pay the rent even now, she says. “In the meantime, Mahesh had got a job as a driver but was sacked when someone revealed his HIV status,” she said. Hemlata Lohave of the Red Cross said she has been appealing for help. “The family needs a source of livelihood, and we are appealing to get Mahesh employed,” she said. A few days ago, Mahesh did get a job, but it will continue only till the other driver returns from leave, says Reena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-family-hit-hard-by-viruses-first-hiv-then-covid/articleshow/79650231.cms||Shishir Arya
December 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Commercial ops from Orvakal airport soon||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has informed the ministry of civil aviation that Orvakal airport near Kurnool is ready for start of commercial operations. State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath met Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri in New Delhi on Wednesday and held a prolonged discussion on airports in the state, including those proposed and those being developed. Rajendranath later informed reporters that commercial operations from Orvakal airport in Kurnool would start soon. He said he has presented a report to the civil aviation minister and expected that the central government would accord permission at the earliest. Discussions were also held about Bhogapuram airport, which was proposed as an alternative to Visakhapatnam airport. The minister said advanced technology would be used for the airport, including its construction and operations. The central government is looking into all aspects of Bhogapuram airport and is expected to accord all permissions soon, he said. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen to start works on Bhogapuram airport at the earliest. He will lay the foundation stone for the airport once the civil aviation ministry clears all permissions,” Rajendranath said. Orvakal airport was one of the 50 greenfield low-cost airports proposed by the central government. Then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu laid the foundation stone for the airport in 2017, which is located 18km away from Kurnool town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/commercial-ops-from-orvakal-airport-soon/articleshow/79648992.cms||Gopi Dara
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||WB: Birders’ first east coast date with Bay of Bengal winged wonders||KOLKATA: A group of birders from the state will for the first time take up a pelagic bird-count expedition—connected with or living in part of the sea—on the Bay of Bengal this weekend. While earlier such expeditions were organised on the Arabian Sea, this is a first from Bengal and will probably be a first for the east coast. The Birdwatchers’ Society will take up the two-day expedition on December 12 and 13. The society’s secretary, Sujan Chatterjee, told TOI, “So far, bird-watching expeditions have been held to observe winged wonders on the coastlines. But pelagic birds rarely approach the land. Hence, this plan. This will be the first time we will venture out to the Bay of Bengal to get an idea on the status of pelagic birds. Such expeditions were earlier taken up from Kochi and Goa.” Recent cyclones, such as Amphan, Fani and Bulbul, had carried many pelagic birds inland. While frigate birds were rescued from Rajarhat, Dankuni and Midnapore after Amphan, terns were seen in the Ganges near Batanagar. A red-tailed tropic bird, a seabird native to tropical Indian and Pacific oceans, was rescued from a Hooghly village after Cyclone Fani in May 2019. “A team will start on December 12 and complete the expedition the next day, jotting down records of seabirds they encounter. We don’t have any idea on pelagic birds’ status in the Bay of Bengal. Usually, they follow the fishing trawlers for the fish waste and other unwanted catch that the fishermen throw back into the sea. So, we also have plans to follow fishing trawlers in search of these pelagic birds,” said Chatterjee, adding they would venture out to the sea from Bakkhali. Earlier during Fani, the red-tailed tropic bird that was rescued on May 4 last year was released back into the sea on May 12.  A source revealed that this was the first record of a red-tailed tropic bird from Bengal and only the second from India. The bird prefers islands and Christmas Island in Indian Ocean is considered to be a large breeding colony of the seabird.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/birders-first-east-coast-date-with-bay-of-bengal-winged-wonders/articleshow/79650215.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
December 10, 2020||Goa||Counter-terror exercise prepares Goa for possible strikes at multi-locations||PANAJI: Goa police on Wednesday successfully completed the three-day counter terror exercise with national security guard (NSG). The objective of the drill, Gandiv-II, was to assess capabilities and preparedness of NSG and the state machinery in responding to a worst-case terror strike across multiple locations simultaneously. Police said that the exercise checked the inter-operability of various departments and units. Gandiv-Il was played out at six important locations across Goa simultaneously from December 7-9 and saw deployment by all units of Goa Police. The exercise continued non-stop through night and day, and culminated with a demonstration of a mock drill which was attended by several senior dignitaries including the chief minister, director general of NSG and director general of Goa police. During the exercise, anti-terror squad (ATS) commando Jaidev Sawant sustained an injury while leading an ATS team. The commando is currently undergoing treatment and is expected to resume duties upon recovery. Upon completion of the exercise, a debriefing session was conducted where observations and the way forward were discussed. Senior officers of NSG, Goa police and the state government attended the debriefing, appreciated the efforts of all participants and congratulated everyone for a successful exercise. Gandiv-II was organised by the NSG, which is the country’s premier counter-terror ops force, in coordination with ATS, Goa, and saw participation by all units of Goa police — traffic, district police, special branch, crime branch, wireless, coastal police, control room, and several important departments of the state government — district administration, home department, health department, fire and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/counter-terror-exercise-prepares-state-for-possible-strikes-at-multi-locations/articleshow/79651414.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Non-veg tiffin centre which blocked temple entrance sealed||Trichy: Imagine a non-vegetarian tiffin centre blocking the entrance to a temple administered by the Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department, that too for several years. The administration of the Kasi Viswanatha Swamy temple at Sobanapuram near Thuraiyur on Wednesday sealed four shops including the tiffin centre, party offices of the DMK and AIADMK and a grocery shop which were encroaching on the temple premises.. With the sealing of the tiffin centre, the devotees may soon enter the temple spread on 25 cents of land through the eastern entrance after a long time. Since the shop was located blocking the way, people have been entering the temple through the southern entrance as both HR&CE department and elected representatives have been turning a blind eye towards the issue. A team of officials led by HR&CE assistant commissioner Mohanasundaram and Thuraiyur police carried out the drive sealing the four encroachments on the outer ‘praharam’ of the centuries-old temple at the village. The assistant commissioner told TOI that action was taken based on an order from the joint commissioner to evict the encroachments. Though the southern and eastern outer praharams of the temple have been encroached by seven structures, the order has been passed to evict the four only. “The others will be evicted following further order,” he said. The team sealed the tiffin centre run by Natarajan and Kanagaraj, the DMK branch office of M Sureshkumar, the AIADMK branch office of V Krishnakumar and a grocery shop run by M Mohan. M Elangovan, a Sobanapuram resident who made efforts to rake up the issue, said the three others – Ibrahim (a tiffin centre), Periyasamy (bicycle shop) and C Pichai (grocery shop) failed to turn up for the hearing conducted by HR&CE. “HR&CE may take action after their appearance before the court,” he said adding that the encroachments were marring the beauty of the temple for over 25 years. The encroachments had come up when the temple was under the control of trustees earlier. Elangovan alleged that the though HR&CE has been empowered to rent out the buildings and land of the temple to generate income, those running the shops and offices failed to pay even the meagre rental to the department for several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/non-veg-tiffin-centre-which-blocked-temple-entrance-sealed/articleshow/79651353.cms||Gokul Rajendran
December 10, 2020||Madurai||VOC Peravai members clash with cops, 65 held||Trichy: Police arrested 65 people after a scuffle between agitating Akila India VOC Peravai workers and police turned violent in Trichy on Wednesday. The outfit was taking out a demonstration against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami over his promise to bring seven castes under the banner of Devendrakula Vellalars. Police had to resort to lathi-charge to disperse the crowd. As many as 500 members of the Peravai staged a demonstration near the central bus stand in the morning. The protesters raised slogans against the AIADMK government claiming that they belonged to the Vellalar community. The group also they will not vote for the party led by EPS. During the demonstration, a few members of the outfit sat on the road to block the movement of vehicles. Police jumped into action and forced them to leave the road, resulting in heated arguments and a minor scuffle . Though the protestors tried to flee, police managed to catch them and arrested them. Police sources said that they arrested 65 people and lodged them in a marriage hall before registering cases against them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/voc-peravai-members-clash-with-cops-65-held/articleshow/79651378.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Discom ropes in German tech to detect underground faults||Visakhapatnam: The AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) has adopted German technology to detect faulty networks in underground electricity supply, works in which are expected to be completed by March 2021. Speaking to TOI, APEPDCL director (projects) K Raja Bapaiah said that the discom has procured a German underground power supply fault detector at a cost of Rs 3 crore, one that is considered to be the best among existing detectors available in other states. The World Bank suggested and funded the equipment and is also supporting a lion’s share of the total project cost of around Rs 800 crores. The detector has already been used to check power supply defaults on a trial basis near Circuit Guest House in the city. “The detector succeeded in identifying a fault of cable joints at the Four Points hotel junction near the Circuit Guest house. We have to test another four to five defects complained about by the contract agencies who took up the project,” said a senior APEPDCL official, who supervised use of the machine. According to APEPDCL officials, the project aims at covering 80,000 electrical service connections located close to the sea. The project was launched as an alternative to the overhead cabling system that was completely damaged by cyclone Hudhud in October 2014. The project, which was supposed to be completed by December-end, was delayed owing the lockdown following the Covid-19 outbreak. “The cabling work at zone-1 areas of the city was completed, while in other areas it needs to be completed by end of this fiscal year. The works were halted for three months during October to December 2019 and for a few weeks due to Covid-19. Now, it is progressing well,” an APEDCL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/discom-ropes-in-german-tech-to-detect-underground-faults/articleshow/79649017.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand mulls mandatory online registration for Kumbh||Nainital: The state government on Wednesday told the Uttarakhand high court (HC) that it will consider making online registration mandatory for all pilgrims for the upcoming Kumbh Mela in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the hearing of a PIL on the state’s handling of the pandemic, assistant solicitor general(ASG) Rakesh Thapliyal told the court that making online registration a must for Kumbh pilgrims would help limit the number of visitors and control the spread of the virus. Taking cognisance of the ASG’s suggestion, a bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani directed the state to consider the step and file an affidavit again, detailing the measures to curb Covid-19 spread during the religious event. This is the third such affidavit by the state government. Meanwhile, the ASG also put forth various other suggestions on issues like accommodation, medical facilities, social distancing and sanitisation. Shiv Bhatt, lawyer for one of the petitioners, said, “The ASG suggested that online registration can be made compulsory to prevent infection spread and control the number of pilgrims for the upcoming Kumbh. When asked by the court about the state government’s view on the same, its counsel said that they will consider the move and inform the court about it on the next date of hearing, which is December 23.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-mulls-mandatory-online-registration-for-kumbh/articleshow/79649011.cms||Prashant Jha
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Award ceremony held at IMA||Dehradun: The award ceremony of the Autumn Term passing out course of the Indian Military Academy (IMA), comprising the 147th Regular Course and 130th Technical Graduate Course, was conducted at Khetarpal Auditorium on Wednesday. IMA commandant Lt Gen Harinder Singh felicitated the cadets who had excelled in various fields during their pre-commission training at the academy. A communique from the IMA said that “training imparted to gentlemen cadets at IMA is designed to provide a comprehensive knowledge of military fundamentals and leadership, as well as proficiency in basic military skills and aims to develop qualities of character, intellect, fitness and competence needed by future-ready officers, who, at all times in their career, must be prepared to lead. ” Lt Col Himani Pant, public relations officer at IMA said that amid the pandemic, the academy ensured there was no dilution in training standards of the cadets, even as all precautions were taken and a healthy routine evolved for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/award-ceremony-held-at-ima/articleshow/79649022.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu govt urged to hold arrear exams for final semester students||TRICHY: Maintaining that the future of final year undergraduate and post-graduate students with arrears is at stake as they could not join post-graduate programmes or join PhD, the Aided College Teachers’ Association (ACTA) Tamil Nadu has urged the state government to take steps to conduct arrear examination for these students. While colleges conducted end semester examination for the final year UG and PG students in September, no decision was taken on their arrear papers. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced cancellation of arrear examination of all college students considering the pandemic. However, the decision was taken against the norms of the University Grants Commission and a section of people moved court challenging the decision. Though status quo has been maintained on the arrear papers, it has been adversely affecting future of students. Saying that the final semester students are put to great hardships because of the legal case pending before the high court, the general secretary of ACTA, S Sahaya Sathish, said that most of the colleges have not conducted the final semester arrear examinations. While admissions to the post-graduate programmes and PhD are over in most of the colleges, the students were not considered for admission because of their arrears. Some of the colleges, which have provisionally admitted the students, are on the verge of losing their seats, he said. Graduate and the post-graduate students, who have arrears, have the chance to clear them only when the arrear exams are conducted, he said. Asking to postpone the admissions to the post-graduate and research programmes in the state until arrear examinations are conducted for the final year undergraduate and postgraduate students, he urged to keep the admissions to PG courses and research courses in abeyance till the final semester arrear examinations are conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-urged-to-hold-arrear-exams-for-final-sem-students/articleshow/79651382.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||KP active case count dips along with city’s||Kolkata: There’s finally some respite for Kolkata Police that has recorded around 3,200 Covid cases in the past eight months and have lost 19 personnel — all of them while on active duty — due to the virus. The number of active cases dropped to 56 for the first time on Tuesday. Now, with a daily average of five to eight recoveries per day, cops are hoping the active cases will drop below 50 in the next 24 hours. “For the first time in months, we had just one cop, who got tested in the past 24 hours. A few of them are still hospitalized, including OC of Beliaghata traffic guard, but none are stated to be serious,” said an officer from the welfare cell. Divisional cops, who have been on duty non-stop since the outbreak of Covid, followed by the lockdown and finally the ongoing festive season, believes the various state measures — coupled with court rulings — during the festive season to ensure physical distancing have helped in bringing down the numbers. Between July and August, Kolkata Police had reported 30-50 fresh cases daily. It fell to less than 20 in early September before Puja shopping and its allied arrangements pushed the figures passed 25 again. “Much before Durga Puja, on October 8, we had more than 2,600 active cases. Since then, in a span of two months, we saw an addition of 600 odd cases. Most of the six fresh deaths in this time were either men with comorbidity or were reportedly hospitalized for a really long time. There is definitely a lot of hope that we are getting from this statistics,” said an officer at Lalbazar. While the loss of colleagues have been painful, police said there have been several instances when cops have pulled through even after weeks of hospitalization. The cops reiterated that while the decline in cases is appreciable, the dangers were far from being over. “This upcoming Christmas and New year, the SOP used in staying at separated barracks and handling the crowd will remain in place. Kolkata Police personnel on duty in central Kolkata will not be allowed to stand too close to each other. All of them must wear masks and wear face shields. If possible, they have to wear gloves too. The healthy recovery rate though has left the cops with a challenge. Police had a tough time on Wednesday arranging plasma for at least three persons admitted at hospitals off EM Bypass. The total number of plasma donations made by city cops have now touched 86.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kp-active-case-count-dips-along-with-citys/articleshow/79650270.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 10, 2020||Trichy||No farmer in Tamil Nadu will be hit by farm laws, says CM||TIRUVARUR: Not even a single farmer in Tamil Nadu will be affected by the Centre’s new farm laws and instead they stand to benefit a lot from them, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has said. He was speaking to reporters at Thennavarayanallur in Tiruvarur district while on a tour of the cyclone-hit Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts on Wednesday to assess the damage suffered by them. Reiterating his support for the new laws, Edappadi said, “DMK had stated in its 2016 election manifesto that it would formulate a new policy to facilitate direct selling of agricultural produces by farmers anywhere in India and internationally. The manifesto had also stated that they would create a system to eliminate intermediaries. This is what the agriculture laws introduced by the central government also say”, Palaniswami said. Earlier, the CM assessed the extent of damage caused by cyclones at Karunkanni village in Keelaiyur union. He distributed relief materials to villagers at Pazhankalliedu relief camp in Thalaignayiru union. After his visit in Nagapattinam district, the chief minister reached Thiruthuraipoondi in Tiruvarur district. He got down from his vehicle and stepped into the flooded paddy field at Pamini along with agriculture minister K P Anbalagan and food minister R Kamaraj, and examined the damaged crops. He also distributed relief materials at a relief centre at Thiruthuraipoondi and assessed crop damage at Kachanam village. He also visited Kuvalaikal and Kollumangudi relief camp as also Nalladai in Sembanarkoil union, Sirkazhi in Sattanathapuram and Erukkur in Kollidam in Mayiladuthurai district. Based on the enumeration done so far, the chief minister said that about 2.1 lakh acres of samba paddy and other horticulture crops have been affected by the rain. Thirteen people lost their lives in rain-related incidents and over 10,000 huts and tiled houses were damaged. Measures have been taken to provide compensation to all the affected people, he added. The CM promised to pressure the central government for the required relief to help those affected by cyclone Nivar and the rainfall triggered by cyclone Burevi. Before kicking off his tour, the chief minister visited the shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health at Velankanni and Nagore Dargah in Nagapattinam and offered prayers accompanied by agriculture minister K P Anbalagan, textile minister O S Manian and health minister C Vijaya Baskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-farmer-in-tamil-nadu-will-be-hit-by-farm-laws-says-cm/articleshow/79651409.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||CM approves funds for Kumbh works||Dehradun: To speed up the remaining infrastructural projects relating to Kumbh Mela 2021, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday gave the financial approval for various projects. An amount of Rs 12.29 crore was cleared for projects relating to the electricity department, Rs 4.63 crore for eight drinking water-related projects, and Rs 1.69 crore for development works. Also, a sum of Rs 1.89 crore was approved for the renovation of Dam Kothi guest house, Rs 1.29 crore for drinking water arrangement at Bairagi sector, Rs 43 lakh for parking projects, and Rs 44.89 lakh for Triveni Ghat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-approves-funds-for-kumbh-works/articleshow/79649035.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Dense fog throws life out of gear in Terai region||Rudrapur: Residents of the Terai region woke up to a foggy morning on Wednesday. A thick blanket of fog engulfed the area and it remained intact the whole day. Commuters, especially two-wheelers, faced a difficult time in reaching their destinations. The maximum temperature dropped to 10 degrees Celsius, forcing people to remain confined to their homes. RK Singh, meteorologist at Govind Ballabh Pant University in Pantnagar has predicted rain in the coming days due to strong western disturbances approaching the region. On Wednesday, vehicles were seen moving at a snail’s pace due to the low visibility. Hawkers, vegetable sellers, food delivery men, and milkmen were the worst hit. Mahesh Kuamr, a daily wager at the Pantnagar industrial estate, said, “I leave my village around 5:30 am on cycle to join duty. It becomes quite tough for me in the ongoing cold weather conditions. The dense fog adds to my woes.” Another commuter, Harshvir Singh said special arrangements should have been made by the NHAI for such foggy days. In the absence of proper signage, barricades and speed humps, driving on highways require extra caution. Meanwhile, farmers in the region expressed delight over prevailing weather conditions saying it benefits their crops. Jaswinder Singh, a local farmer, said that the fog is good for wheat, potato, and mustard. “I am happy with the prevailing weather conditions as the fog and dew are particularly good for the wheat crop,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dense-fog-throws-life-out-of-gear-in-terai-region/articleshow/79649046.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||82 tonnes of marijuana destroyed in Visakhapatnam district||VISAKHAPATNAM: After getting the legal nod, Visakhapatnam rural police on Wednesday destroyed over 82 tonnes marijuana in the presence of the drug disposal committee at Balighattam dumping yard at Narsipatnam in Visakhapatnam district. DIG (Visakha range) LKV Ranga Rao said that the ganja destroyed on Wednesday was seized in 657 cases under 41 police stations’ limits in the district. This was the first time such a huge quantity of dry ganja was destroyed in the district on a single day. Regarding vehicles seized in ganja busts, police said that the vehicles will be auctioned off as per court directions. In the last two years, altogether over 200 seized vehicles have been auctioned for Rs 87 lakh. Police further said that large quantities of the green drug have been seized under the Narcotic Drug and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the seized cannabis will be destroyed upon obtaining permission from the court. The ganja destroyed on Wednesday was seized in 657 cases under 41 police stations’ limits. The vehicles seized in ganja busts will be auctioned off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/82-tonnes-of-marijuana-destroyed-in-vizag-dist/articleshow/79649043.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kanpur||Commissioner finds around 40% KDA staff absent, orders action||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar, during his visit to the office of Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) on Wednesday, was stunned to find around 40-50 percent staff, including the supervisory officers, absent between 10.25 am and 10 45 am. Peeved over the sorry state of affairs in the KDA office, the commissioner marked all the staff absent and asked the KDA vice-chairman to stop their salary, issue show cause notices to them, get their reply within three days and send a report to him. The commissioner along with the KDA vice-chairman, secretary, chief engineer KDA and other officials made a random visit to KDA to check punctuality of the officers and staff incompliance of the orders of the chief minister. During checking, the commissioner noticed that the attendance register was not at its place.In a specific direction, the commissioner, who is also chairman of the KDA, asked the vice-chairman to get the system streamlined and ensure that the attendance register was checked and verified by the in-charge officer on daily basis by 10 am without fail. Raj Shekhar also noticed that several employees were absent without getting their casual or earned leaves sanctioned but in the attendance register their CL /EL was mentioned against their names. He directed the secretary to get it checked and take appropriate action and inform him in the next three days. During interaction with the public visiting the KDA office, a family told him that in spite of visiting the office several times in the last four months, their complaints have not been attended to. The commissioner jotted down the details of their case and asked vice-chairman Rakesh Singh to get their problems resolved and report him in the evening. In another direction, he asked the officials to display at appropriate places section, name, designation and mobile number of supervisory officer, officer in-charge, and nodal officer of every section so that people did not face difficulty in reaching to the senior officers to get their issues resolved in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/commissioner-finds-around-40-kda-staff-absent-orders-action/articleshow/79651698.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: After helping in Covid battle, future of ex-sex workers’ laundry uncertain||PANAJI: Twenty women employees of Swift Wash, a livelihood unit for rehabilitation of victims of sex trafficking in Vasco, are on the brink of losing their only source of income. The laundry unit, which successfully remained in business for over 15 years, has lost over 90% of its business in the past few months due to Covid-19. Six months ago, the employees courageously accepted and washed the laundry of Covid care centres that were set up in Goa Tourism Development Corporation’s (GTDC) residencies after the corporations regular laundry service providers refused to do so. Swift Wash had hoped to earn some business this way as they had lost their regular clients — hotels — as they were shut due to the Covid. The gamble, however, did not pay off, Arun Pandey of ARZ, a not for profit organisation that operates the laundry unit, said. In May, the ARZ wrote to GTDC asking to be allowed to handle the laundry of its hotels, but the corporation opted for their usual service provider. “The GTDC has gone back to their regular laundry service providers, and since most of the hotels are still closed, we are out of business.” The Swift Wash is yet to get paid for services rendered to the government during the pandemic. “Around Rs 4.5 lakh is due in arrears. If we were to know that there would be this much delay in receiving payments, we would have kept the unit closed and cut down our operating cost,” Pandey said. Since the last few months, the laundry’s revenue has dropped to Rs 50,000 from Rs 5 to 5.5 lakh a month. “In the past, we were able to at least break even, but now we can’t cover our expenses,” he said adding that they have approached all possible authorities and are waiting for orders. “Unless the order book improves drastically, Swift Wash may have to be shut down, which would make the rescued women vulnerable to commercial sexual exploitation once again,” he said. The women, rescued from commercial sexual exploitation, stare at a bleak future as outsourcing of laundry has become negligible. When they agreed to wash the laundry of Covid patients, they even faced difficulty in collection and delivering as no one was willing to do it. “I picked up and delivered the laundry. We took the risk with a tacit understanding that in future our services would be considered,” he said. All the Covid care centres that were set up in GTDC properties have been shut. They were set-up and operated through offices of district collectors of North and South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-helping-in-covid-battle-future-of-ex-sex-workers-laundry-uncertain/articleshow/79651642.cms||Bindiya Chari
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: After 9 months, tourist footfall at Borra Caves gathers pace||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tourist footfall at Borra Caves has almost returned to pre-Covid-19 levels, said officials with the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC). B Gowri Sankara Rao, APTDC manager at Borra Caves, said the number of tourists at the spot is limping back to normalcy despite no train facility between Visakhapatnam and Araku, no special tourist buses and few tourists from Odisha, West Bengal and Hyderabad. “But, despite all these odds, we earned a revenue of Rs 17 lakh and have had 30,000 tourists this month till Sunday (December 6) against an average of 40,000 tourists. This means, that normalcy is returning here. We expect nearly 50,000 tourists from this week till Sankranti,” Sankara Rao told TOI. The revenue of Rs 17 lakh in the first week of December, Rao said, was earned against just Rs 23 lakh for October, which is also a peak tourist season with Dasara and Diwali holidays. The tourist spot stayed open on all working days during the period of peak Covid-19 infections. In November, the tourism corporation earned Rs 28 lakh. On Sunday (December 6) alone, the APTDC earned Rs 6 lakh from nearly 9,000 tourists, the highest in the last nine months. Tourism department sources said the number of tourists to Borra Caves and neighbouring Araku Valley will increase once train services resume between Visakhapatnam and Araku. Tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said they will raise the issue for resumption of train services and the glass-domed coach attached to the train. A senior railway official at Visakhapatnam headquarters of Waltair division said, “We are ready to operate the trains to Araku if they receive official nod from the higher-ups at Bhubaneswar and the Railway Board at New Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/after-9-months-tourist-footfall-at-borra-caves-gathers-pace/articleshow/79649067.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
December 10, 2020||Trichy||Demand to restart bus services to Trichy butterfly conservatory||TRICHY: As visitors to the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Trichy (TBCT) has been gradually increasing after reopening last month, the demand to resume bus services to connect it with major bus stands in the city have been growing louder. Currently, tourists are using their own vehicles to reach TBCT, located 3.5km from Srirangam bus stand in the upper anaicut reserve forest. Only a private mini bus is operated from Srirangam, but it remains inaccessible for people in the outskirts and neighbouring districts who rely on public transport. “Over 1,200 people visited on November 22 (Sunday) which is the highest so far after it reopened. The numbers would increase if the public transport is restored,” said an official from TBCT. “A mini bus is operated from Srirangam but the conservatory is not connected from chathiram or central bus stand. People who want to visit from neighbouring districts are facing difficulty,” said S Rajesh a visitor from Manachanallur. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) was operating a bus from last year to TBCT, operated thrice in a day from Central bus stand via Chathiram bus stand. But the service was stopped after lockdown was imposed in March this year. “Lockdown norms are expected to be revoked by end of December. Therefore, we have planned to wait for a few days before going to Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation with a request,” Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said. “While most of the locals visit TBCT in their own vehicles, tourists coming to temples come to TBCT as a detour. The bus facility will allow people from outskirts and other districts to visit TBCT,” she said. M Sekaran, president, Federation of consumer and service organisations, Trichy, said that a request will be made to the TNSTC general manager in this regard. “Bus service can be operated during the weekend when the number of visitors is more. It can gradually be operated on other days based on the patronage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/demand-to-restart-bus-services-to-trichy-butterfly-conservatory/articleshow/79651449.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 10, 2020||Trichy||Greenfield project will benefit all: Tamil Nadu CM||TIRUVARUR: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday said the Chennai-Salem eight-lane greenfield corridor would benefit everyone in the long run. It is a central government project for which land acquisition was the state government’s responsibility. He was replying to a reporter’s question on the Supreme Court’s order to allow the greenfield corridor. “When the DMK was part of Union government, T R Baalu was the minister for shipping, road transport and highways. Several acres of land was acquired for highway projects during his tenure. Were not the farmers affected then? Adequate road facilities are needed as the country and factories are growing. As Tamil Nadu is a growing state, this project is needed” Palaniswami said. The chief minister said he noticed during his tour of the US that all roads there were at least eight lanes, which rose to 10, 12 and even 16 lanes. The project should be seen in the long term.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/greenfield-project-will-benefit-all-cm/articleshow/79651425.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Chennai||For better security, Chennai airport to get higher walls, more lights||CHENNAI: In a bid to enhance security arrangements, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) is planning to increase the height of perimeter walls, install better watch towers for CISF personnel and execute related work at the Chennai airport. The authority may hire an agency by the end of the month for the work. The move comes after Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) officials advised airport officials to increase the height of the wall at around ten spots. They did an inspection as part of an audit that was held a few months ago. “They felt that the height of the wall should be increased in some areas. The airport has residential areas and private property in some parts and also a river passing through the campus under a bridge. These are points where security has already been improved with more surveillance from the watch tower,” said an official. A tender has been called for to increase the height of the walls and also to set up better watch towers. There have been a few instances of people intruding from the far corners of the compound in the past few years. In the absence of a modern monitoring system, CISF personnel are posted in watchtowers along the perimeter which also has barbed wire fencing on top of the wall. The security personnel also drive by the road that runs along the wall inside the airport. Illumination has been improved last year by installing lights that face the outer areas of the airport so that intrusion attempts can be detected. Sources said the attempts to modernise perimeter monitoring using intruder alarm and sensors did not take off. The plan to have a sensor-driven electronic perimeter intruder detection system was mooted in 2017. It was to be completed in 2018. As this was taking time, CISF increased the sentry points near the river which is dry for most part of the year. Illumination was improved following advice from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security. “The outer areas were dark as the lights were facing the airport campus. This posed a problem,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/for-better-security-airport-to-get-higher-walls-more-lights/articleshow/79650281.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Ambulance driver drops corpse outside hospital, family uses cart||BAREILLY: An ambulance driver in UP left a woman's body outside a hospital ward after the emergency medical officer declared the patient dead on Tuesday. The hospital staff reportedly didn’t offer any form of transport to carry the body, so the family was left with no other choice but to use a hand-pulled cart. A purported video clip of the incident has gone viral. The chief medical superintendent (CMS) ordered a probe on Wednesday. Naseem, 54, was a resident of Kanshiram colony in Lakhimpur city. Her husband is a rickshaw puller. On Tuesday, she had pain in her chest. When her condition deteriorated, her kin called '108' ambulance. Upon reaching the hospital, the family reportedly requested emergency medical officer Dr Akhilesh Kumar to examine her inside the ambulance. The doctor found that the patient was already dead and informed the family. The ambulance driver, however, left the body on the floor - outside the ward - and asked the family to take another vehicle. CMS Dr RC Agarwal told TOI, “After initial probe, we found that the patient was brought dead and the ambulance driver showed negligence and left the body. We have sent a notice to the company operating the vehicle to take action against the driver and support staff." "We have also given instructions to the EMOs to check the patients inside the emergency ward and maintain a proper record of every patient arriving for treatment,” the CMS added. The family was already upset with the behaviour of the ambulance driver and didn’t ask for any van from the hospital, according to the CMS. "We always provide a corpse van to the people. But, they decided to use a hand-cart,” the CMS said. The family couldn’t be contacted and no complaint was lodged from their side yet. Watch Shocking: Ambulance driver drops corpse outside hospital, family uses cart||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/family-uses-hand-pulled-cart-after-ambulance-driver-in-up-drops-womans-body-outside-hosp/articleshow/79648252.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 10, 2020||Goa||Voting and counting days to be dry days in Goa||PANAJI: With zilla panchayat (ZP) elections in the state scheduled on December 12, all licensed liquor premises located within zilla panchayat constituencies will remain shut from midnight of December 11 till midnight of December 12. Liquor shops will also remain shut on December 14, the day of counting. Premises having licence for bar and restaurant may be allowed to remain open but they will be able to serve only food. Their bar counters will remain closed and no liquor to be served on the two days even if a restaurant remains open. Licensed bars and restaurants will have to also display a board in their premises stating that no liquor will be served, and that the restaurant is open to only serve food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/voting-and-counting-days-to-be-dry-days/articleshow/79651509.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||‘Elderly sadhus attending Kumbh will be administered Covid-19 vaccine on priority’||Dehradun: State tourism and culture minister Satpal Maharaj on Tuesday said that if the Covid vaccine is made available in time, the priority of the state government will be to administer it to elderly sadhus attending the Kumbh Mela next year. Talking to TOI, Satpal Maharaj said that he recently met union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in Delhi and asked him to inform him of the chances of procuring the vaccine before Kumbh. “The health minister was very positive about (the availability of) vaccine and said that multiple doses will have to be administered to a person. He asked me about the level at which we are planning to organise the mega fair, in terms of people and arrangements. We have been asked to submit a proposal detailing our requirements,”Maharaj said. The Haridwar Kumbh traditionally starts post Makar Sankranti (January 14), but the state government has not yet formally announced the commencement date of the mega festival or the format in which it will be organised. Officials said the final decision will be taken when the event draws closer, depending on the Covid situation at the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/elderly-sadhus-attending-kumbh-will-be-administered-covid-19-vaccine-on-priority/articleshow/79649061.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Saoner police rescue 2 minor sisters, 3 held||Nagpur: Saoner police have arrested three youths involved in kidnapping two minor sisters from Patansawangi town and sexually exploiting them for over a month. Saoner police station’s senior police inspector Ashok Koli told TOI that on November 5, Akash Sonariya (18, a resident of Patansawangi) along with his two friends — Sagar Dhurve (22, Betul in MP) and Karan Kashyap (18, Patansawangi) — had lured the two sisters to elope with them on the pretext of marrying them. After the minor’s mother lodged a complaint, the senior PI formed a team, which visited many places including Jabalpur in MP, but in vain. Recently, the investigators got a tip off that the trio along with the two sisters was staying in Pithampura in Indore district of MP and subsequently a trap was laid. The team succeeded in arresting the trio and brought the sisters to their hometown. The accused were remanded in police custody for two days, while the minor girls were handed over to their mother. Further probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saoner-police-rescue-2-minor-sisters-3-held/articleshow/79650268.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Higher Edu institutes to reopen from Dec 15: Colleges support move, students’ body unhappy||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet on Wednesday approved the reopening of higher education institutes in the state from December 15. Just like schools, the colleges and universities have also been mandated to implement the Standard Operation Procedures (SOP) issued by the state government before opening up for students. The private college body welcomed the cabinet decision on reopening. “We are happy with this decision and thank the state government. The colleges were bound to reopen sooner or later. The theory lessons were completed through the online classes but practical lessons need physical classrooms. I am sure that all the colleges in Uttarakhand will implement the SOPs and reopen by December 15,” said GS Warne, secretary of the Association of the Self-Financed Colleges of Uttarakhand. Warne added, “I have my apprehensions for the clause that says colleges will be held responsible if the students are tested positive for Covid-19. I don’t think colleges should be blamed as we can’t control the movement of the students once they leave our campus.” Meanwhile, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) said that it is not the right time to reopen the colleges in the state. “The number of Covid-19 cases are rising in Uttarakhand and currently, reopening the colleges will mean risking students’ lives. Colleges should have reopened after an approved vaccine for Covid-19. Recently, several students and teachers tested Covid-19 positive in Uttarakhand after the schools were reopened,” said Mohan Bhandari, state president of NSUI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/higher-edu-institutes-to-reopen-from-dec-15-colleges-support-move-students-body-unhappy/articleshow/79649080.cms||Mohammad Anab
December 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pongal rush is here, trains booked||CHENNAI: With the travel buzz back, train reservations have already touched the waitlist for Pongal holidays. And it looks like travellers prefer sleeper class as tickets for AC III tier coaches are either available or the waitlist numbers are below 10 for travel on January 12. The Pongal festival is from January 14 to 17. On the Chennai-Madurai route, reservation status on sleeper class and AC III tier coaches of around eight trains are on waitlist. The waiting list ranges from 65 to 129 for sleeper class on different trains and two to 15 for AC III tier coaches for the same day. The reservation trend shows that night trains which depart in the evening from Chennai Egmore are preferred the most as the daytime trains have a good number of seats available. There are no takers for Tejas Express as the train has 787 chair car seats and 42 executive chair car seats empty. On trains to other popular routes like Tirunelveli and Tuticorin, the waitlist is longer because the number of trains is fewer. The waitlist for sleeper class is 141 and for AC III tier is 10 on Chennai-Tuticorin Express. Waitlist is 157 for sleeper class and 25 for AC III tier to Tirunelveli on Chennai-Tirunelveli Express. The reservation status shows that travel is resuming to the level closer to the pre-Covid days. Officials said a good number of people travelled for Diwali. Till the end of October, the festival specials had an average occupancy rate of 57% while the special trains had 74% occupancy. The number of trains running with 100% occupancy is also on the rise. “Patronage of trains is increasing. Diwali saw a good number of people travelling. The demand for Pongal shows that travel is returning to normal level. Pongal is expected to see a good number of people travelling because the festival is important,” said a railway official. Southern Railway has resumed most of the popular trains from Chennai. Trains to most of the destinations are full for travel for Christmas and New Year week. There is demand for flights as airfare has started to increase for travel before the Pongal festival. One-way tickets to Madurai and Tuticorin are selling for more than Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500 for one month’s advance booking. Airlines and travel operators are hoping that the demand will help domestic travel bounce back further for summer holidays. An airlines official said domestic tourism is likely to boom in April and May. “The passenger confidence is growing with every passing festival. People began to travel for leisure and to visit family and friends from Puja and Diwali time. It may reach the pre-Covid-19 level in April and May.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pongal-rush-is-here-trains-booked/articleshow/79650293.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Clearing arrears will be easier for senior students this time||TRICHY: This time around, there is some relief in sight for senior students who repeatedly appear for arrear papers during semester examinations but fail to clear the backlog. Teachers expect many such students to pass by making the most of online and offline mode of semester examination planned from December 14. Be it good or bad, teachers point out that students can appear from their respective homes without any monitoring and invigilation. Question papers will be mailed to them and they can write answers in white sheets from their home. They must hand over their answer scripts in their respective colleges the same day. The respective colleges will be evaluation centres this time which means answer scripts of students will be evaluated by teachers of the same college. All universities under the directorate of collegiate education (DCE) are set to conduct the semester examination from December 14. Non-autonomous affiliated college teachers have been encouraging students, especially the senior students with arrears, to register for the examination. They say it is an opportunity for students to clear their backlogs and get degrees. “End semester examinations were held in September but excluding arrear papers. This time the examinations will be full-fledged where old students with arrear papers have also been asked to register,” said BDU controller of examination, S Srinivasaragavan. Semester examination for the current batch will conclude by December 24. But the examination will go on till first or second week of January as more number of old students with arrear papers are expected to apply, he added. The chief minister had announced blanket pass in all arrear papers of college students on August 26 citing the pandemic. While cases related to the decision are pending in high court, the higher education department has instructed the universities to conduct arrear examinations along with semester examinations. “During the end semester examinations many students appeared for the exam in groups while helping each other with the answers. Further, they also had the option of referring textbooks since there is no invigilation,” said a teacher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/clearing-arrears-will-be-easier-for-senior-students-this-time/articleshow/79651473.cms||Sampath Kumar
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||MSETCL to fell compensatory trees planted by Metro||Nagpur: Tree felling for developmental works is not new. Law provides for planting trees to compensate for the destroyed green cover. But how unplanned development will take a toll on the compensatory afforestation can be gauged from the fact that Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company (MSETCL) now wants to fell the trees planted under the compensatory afforestation scheme for erecting towers. MahaMetro had felled 330 trees for Nagpur Metro project. As compensation, it planted 5,000 trees in Vasudev Nagar on the banks of Ambazari Lake. Buoyed by the survival rate of these trees, it planted another 9,500 trees. These 14,500 trees planted over an area of 30 hectare, known as Little Woods, are in various stages of growth. Now, MSETCL wants to fell 87 of these trees for erecting towers inside the plantation. It has started the process of construction of line in line out (LILO) on 132KV Mankapur-Hingna transmission line for a new substation at Lendhra Park in Ramdaspeth. LILO means a new substation set up by tapping the transmission line between two existing substations. MSETCL has already erected one tower in Little Woods and is in the process of erecting another. Environmentalists have demanded that forest department ask MSETCL to seek environmental clearance (EC) from Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC). They also said when MSETCL could lay an underground cable inside the city, why was it not doing the same this time to save the trees. MSETCL’s transmission line is claiming only 87 trees in Little Woods, but a total of about a 1,000 trees, most of them inside the Ambazari Biodiversity Park, would face the axe. Metro officials are dejected over the proposed felling of the trees. “We had taken great care for survival of the trees. Now, it has become a habitat of a variety of birds and wild animals like rabbits, wild boar etc. One of our workers had also spotted a leopard inside the plantation. It has already become a mini forest,” said an official. As on date, MSETCL has not got permission from forest department to fell the trees. Prabhu Nath Shukla, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Nagpur, has sought guidance from his seniors as to whether MSETCL should be asked to seek an EC for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msetcl-to-fell-compensatory-trees-planted-by-metro/articleshow/79650284.cms||Ashish Roy
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar admin mulling to make Kumbh area tobacco free||Haridwar: The Kumbh Mela area in Haridwar will be made tobacco-free during the mega festival which will commence from January next year. District magistrate C Ravishankar asked officials to implement the plan. A joint team has been made for the implementation of the plan and police officials have been ordered to take legal action against selling of tobacco products within the limit of Kumbh Mela region. DM Ravishankar told TOI, “Action will be taken under the national tobacco control program and a joint team has been made for taking action. The food safety department will take samples and will act accordingly. Similarly, the joint team will give training to the Kumbh Mela officials to make the Kumbh area tobacco free. We have also asked the NGOs and other social outfits to come forward to spread awareness among people. Meanwhile, police and other district officials will impose a penalty and take legal action against the violators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-admin-mulling-to-make-kumbh-area-tobacco-free/articleshow/79649074.cms||MS Nawaz
December 10, 2020||Agra||Agra: Lack of ration card, nutritional aid led 30-year-old to sell newborn||AGRA: The 30-year-old Dalit woman who tried to sell her 45-day-old baby for Rs 10,000 outside SN Medical College said on Wednesday that she was forced to resort to such a step due to the absence of even basic amenities like a ration card or support from the local anganwadi centre. She claimed that her child was not covered under the Integrated Child Development Service (ICDS) either. TOI had earlier reported that the woman, a resident of Gopalpura, tried to sell her newborn son for Rs 10,000 due to financial and health issues. Speaking to TOI on Wednesday, the woman said that the family of four was not covered under any government scheme, be it PDS or Ayushman Bharat. She further said that her husband lost his job during the Covid-induced lockdown and she herself suffered from recurring health issues, pushing the family into extreme distress. Child rights activist Naresh Paras, who brought the matter to the notice of the police, said, “The family does not have access to even basic facilities. It is the responsibility of the local anganwadi centre to take care of pregnant women and provide nutritional aid to children upto six years. The district administration should ensure that such poor families have access to government schemes.” He also sent a letter to the district magistrate seeking monetary assistance of Rs 2,000 every month for the woman and her child apart from admitting the latter to a nutrition rehabilitation centre. SNMC paediatrics department head Dr Neeraj Yadav said, “The child suffers from intrauterine growth retardation — a condition where the baby doesn't grow to normal weight during pregnancy. The current weight of the child is merely 1.5 kg, which is not normal for a 45-day-old. The child has diarrhoea too. We are now doing our best to help him recover.” District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “We will look into the matter and provide necessary assistance to the family.” Additional district magistrate Prabhakant Awasthi said, “We have identified the home and family of the woman. She is mentally unstable. Policemen on duty at SNMC are keeping a watch on the woman so that she doesn’t try to sell her baby again. The brother-in-law of the woman has agreed to take care of the child after discharge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/lack-of-ration-card-nutritional-aid-led-30-yr-old-to-sell-newborn/articleshow/79647668.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Over 3 years on, APTDC resort at Lammasingi hangs in limbo||Visakhapatnam: More than three years have passed since tenders were called amid talks of inaugurating the AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) resort at Lammasingi but the Rs 5 crore project still awaits completion. From state elections, fund crunch, workers’ problems to non-payment of contractors and the Covid-19 outbreak, various reasons have been put forward for the delay in the project, however, tourism officials are hopeful that the project will be ready around June 2021. Recent visitors to Lammasingi said barely 50% of civil works have been completed and work has been stalled. However, APTDC officials claim that around 80% of the work is over. Speaking to TOI, K Ramana, executive engineer (EE) of APTDC, in charge of the resort project, said, “Last month, we had prepared a detailed project report (DPR) and sent the proposals to the state tourism minister for inclusion of more facilities and amenities at the site. Initially, eight Kerala-style cottages in two blocks had been planned apart from a restaurant and reception in the administrative block. But now we have sent DPR seeking inclusion of conference hall for accommodating 100 to 200 guests, areas for parties and functions and more cottages given the growing demand for Lammasingi among visitors. Therefore, another Rs 10 crore would be required for all these amenities.” According to the EE, 80% of outdoor civil works are complete and water and electricity connections are available. Work on the interior, furnishing, painting, landscaping, parking and approach road are yet to be taken up. Officials also informed that work is stalled at the moment and payments of around Rs 1.5 crore to the contractor are pending. Marketing manager of APTDC Vizag M Krishna Mohan said, “There had been some delay in 2019 due to problems related to construction workers and this year, since March, the works were stopped due to the pandemic. We have reinitiated the proposal and sent it to our corporate office.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/over-3-years-on-aptdc-resort-at-lammasingi-hangs-in-limbo/articleshow/79649092.cms||Sulogna Mehta
December 10, 2020||Pune||Rush for pictures, chaos during gaur rescue anger experts||PUNE: Wildlife experts and former forest department officials on Wednesday expressed shock at the conditions in which the local authorities tried in vain to rescue a gaur that had strayed into a housing society in Kothrud. The gaur, also known as Indian bison, ran wildly over 3km for more than four hours before it was tranquillized and captured by forest officials. However, it could not be revived and died. Hundreds of people had gathered around the area to watch and capture on their cellphones the operation to rescue the gaur that had strayed into the Mahatma Society from the forests across the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. Some of the onlookers, witnesses said, even chased the gaur on their foot or motorcycles. “I was part of the mission the last time a gaur had strayed into the city, around 20 years ago. We could capture the gaur then and release it back into the wild. But the way in which the gaur was captured on Wednesday was rude and crude,” said Prabhakar Kukdolkar, a retired state forest official. “The first thing that should have been done in this situation was to impose Section 144 and drive away all the crowds. People who had crowded around there should be identified in the photographs and cases should be filed against them for endangering a Schedule I animal’s life,” he said. The police said Section 144 was already in place in the area due to the Covid-19 protocols, but the crowd that had gathered was too large for the local police to deal with. When contacted, Shubhobroto Ghosh, wildlife research manager, World Animal Protection, India, said, “The gaur (Bos gaurus) is the largest bovine species found in South and South-East Asia. They are shy animals and generally avoid proximity to humans. Basically diurnal in habits, the gaurs become nocturnal to avoid human disturbance. The report of a gaur coming into human habitation in Pune and dying as a result of this incursion is unsettling and disturbing. It follows a series of gruesome man-animal conflicts that have recently occured in India, like the incidents of a fishing cat being beaten to death in Howrah and a jackal being burned alive in Purulia, West Bengal.” He told TOI from Delhi, “It is important to bear in mind that wild animals do not know the limits of their range, and indeed in many cases, growing human habitation around the living spaces of wild animals compels us to ask the question, ‘Who is straying into whose area?.’ There are protocols to manage human-wildlife conflict and these have to be adhered to for crowd management and to ensure that an animal in proximity to humans is not unduly stressed due to mob behaviour.” Vidya Athreya, a scientist at Wildlife Conservation Society, India, said, “Capture myopathy is something herbivores, including the gaurs, are particularly susceptible to. Their muscles tire out due to excessive stress and running, which is why they are often chased down by carnivores. In rescue situations like these, it is extremely essential that crowds are kept away.” Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), said, “Beyond Chandni Chowk, the forest cover extends up to the Konkan region. The gaur must have come from those forests and crossed the highway at night across the carriageway or through an underpass. The reduction in tree cover over the years to cater to the growing population is a concern.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-blame-crowd-chaos-for-gaur-death/articleshow/79651508.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-Navy chief’s tribute to Yeager||Kolkata: Flying ace Charles Elwood ‘Chuck’ Yeager, who died on Monday at the age of 97, may never have forgiven India for destroying his Beechcraft aircraft during the 1971 Indo-Pak War but former Indian Navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash (retd), credited with the act as a young naval lieutenant, holds no grudge. “A WWII fighter ace, Vietnam veteran & superb test pilot, ‘Chuck’ Yeager’s name will be up there in the aviation Hall of Fame forever. His stubborn pro-PAF (Pakistan Air Force) bias has to be seen in light of his appointment as Military Adviser in US Embassy, Islamabad, during the 1971 War,” Admiral Prakash tweeted after Yeager’s death. Yeager, as a test pilot, was the first to break the sound barrier. As a Brigadier General, he was assigned to Pakistan to ensure that the armed forces there learnt to use the military hardware supplied by the US. After the loss of his favourite Beechcraft, Yeager is said to have accused then Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of asking for its destruction. He then took the Indo-Pak War personally, helping the PAF during the conflict. Unconfirmed reports even suggested that he even participated in the action. Admiral Prakash was on deputation to the Indian Air Force (IAF) on December 4, 1971, when he and his wingman flew Hunter Mark-56A aircraft to the Chaklala airbase in Pakistan and destroyed the Beechcraft parked there. It was considered a superb bit of flying by the young lieutenant, given the anti-aircraft barrage thrown up by ground defences. Yeager didn’t see it that way though and is said to have even written back to the US, seeking retribution. Admiral Prakash has never been apologetic. Rather, in a tongue-in-cheek article that he wrote after retirement, Admiral Prakash stated that if what former diplomat Edward C Ingraham had to say about Yeager is correct and Indira Gandhi did order the destruction of his aircraft, he had it coming. “And if Indira Gandhi did indeed personally order the destruction of the Beechcraft, then Nixon may have been equally justified in personally directing the Enterprise task force to sail into the Bay of Bengal as an ‘immediate countermeasure’ ... In which case, the honours are equally shared, and I owe no apologies to anyone,” the former Navy chief wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-navy-chiefs-tribute-to-yeager/articleshow/79650324.cms||Jayanta Gupta
December 10, 2020||Trichy||Develop coastal areas in Nagapattinam: MLA Thamimun Ansari||NAGAPATTINAM: Thamimun Ansari, MLA, submitted a memorandum to the chief minister during his visit to Nagapattinam demanding to develop coastal areas in the district as tourist spots by safeguarding habitations from natural calamity. In his memorandum, Ansari urged the CM to allot funds in this regard. He requested the government to sanction Rs 25,000 per acre as compensation for the damage caused by rain and Rs 20,000 per house damaged during the cyclone. While thanking the CM for getting environmental nod to establish a fishing harbour at Nambiar Nagar, he stressed the need for completing the project soon. He appealed to health minister C Vijaya Baskar to upgrade Nagore government hospital and Thittachery PHC. The CM examined a portion of the wall constructed around a tank in Nagore Dargah damaged in the rain before offering prayers there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/develop-coastal-areas-in-nagapattinam-mla/articleshow/79651480.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: 3 Covid deaths; lowest 1-day toll since Jun 19||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 618 new Covid-19 cases on Friday and three deaths, the lowest single-day casualty total in the last 170 days after the state recorded four deaths on June 19. While the cumulative caseload rose to 8,73,457, the toll increased to 7,045 with 785 people declared cured. There are currently 5,259 active cases with 8,61,153 cumulative recoveries and 7,045 deaths. Other than Krishna district (121 new cases), the remaining 12 districts recorded double-digit case numbers. The active cases are less than 500 in nine districts, except East Godavari (670), Guntur (743), Krishna (1,042) and Nellore districts (639). Kurnool has as few as 81 active cases. After Vizianagaram and Kurnool, West Godavari district crossed the 99 per cent recovery rate on Wednesday. Of the three patients who died on Wednesday, one each was from Krishna, Nellore and West Godavari districts. The state tested 61,038 Covid-19 samples and detected 618 new cases on Wednesday, translating to a case positivity rate of just one per cent. The overall case positivity rate has come down to 8.2 per cent, as against the national average of 6.5 per cent. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8 per cent. With the reducing case numbers and increased availability of kits, the state is currently conducting the lion’s share of Covid-19 tests through the RT-PCR method. Of the 61,038 tests conducted on Wednesday, 44,663 were conducted through RT-PCR and 16,375 tests using rapid antigen kits. After Vizianagaram and Kurnool, West Godavari crossed the 99 per cent recovery rate on Wednesday. Active cases are less than 500 in nine districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-covid-deaths-lowest-1-day-toll-since-jun-19/articleshow/79649078.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Coal war to play pivotal part in Salcete and Mormugao’s zilla election result||MARGAO: Coming as it does against the backdrop of the anti-coal agitation, the outcome of the zilla panchayat elections in the Salcete and Mormugao talukas — the epicentre of the protests — will determine the utilitarian value of the agitation in the political scheme of things, and will in turn help political parties shape their agenda for the 2022 assembly polls, political observers said. Though politically inconsequential — the ZP elections will by no means alter the political contours of the state — the outcome of the polls in Salcete and Mormugao will help the ruling BJP assess the strength of the opposition ahead of the larger battle hardly 13 months away, as the saffron party does not have much stake in this region. Most of the ZP constituencies are presently Congress bastions. “Though BJP has nothing to lose in the coastal belt,” a political observer said, “the outcome of the polls will help the party’s managers plan its strategy for the 2022 assembly elections, particularly in areas represented by neo-BJP MLAs who switched over to the party en-masse, thereby crippling Congress in the state. It will also show how well the opposition has been able to leverage the anti-coal agitation to its advantage.” In Salcete, a close contest is on the cards in all eight constituencies where altogether 32 candidates are in the fray. Congress has fielded candidates in all the eight constituencies, followed by AAP which is contesting in six. BJP has managed to field its candidates in just two constituencies, Davorlim and Guirdolim, while strategically supporting independents owing allegiance to BJP MLAs in the rest. “A victory for BJP-supported independents in Catholic-dominated constituencies will further weaken Congress in the state, and will conversely strengthen BJP. The saffron party, which has failed to field candidates on its ticket, will leverage the victory of independents to assert its dominance in the South Goa zilla panchayat. A defeat however, will put its prospects in assembly constituencies like Nuvem and Velm for the 2022 assembly polls in jeopardy,” a political commentator said. In Nuvem, BJP MLA Wilfred D’Sa has extended support to independent candidate Breezy Fernandes while Congress has fielded Assuciana Rodrigues as its candidate. Political observers say both candidates are equally poised and the contest could be heading for an exciting finish. In Velim, although it’s a six-cornered contest, political observers feel it’s going to be a straight fight between independent candidate Anthony Rodrigues or Babush as he is popularly known, and Congress candidate Julio Fernandes. Rodrigues, who had won the 2010 ZP polls, is now seeking a second term, while Fernandes is a greenhorn in grassroots politics. In Guirdolim constituency, it’s a litmus test for turncoat Cuncolim BJP MLA Clafasio Dias as there is a direct contest between Congress and BJP. A win for the latter in this constituency will mean that Dias has managed to retain his popularity among his voters and will help him cement his position in the party, especially considering the challenge posed by Yuri Alemao who recently switched over to Congress after a brief engagement with GFP. Alemao has been actively canvassing for the Congress ZP candidate. Congress also faces a challenge in the Colva and Benaulim constituencies, which will witness a three-cornered contest. In Colva, Congress candidate Suzie Fernandes, NCP’s Vania Baptista and AAP nominee Aishwarya Fernandes are engaged in the battle, while in Benaulim, a close contest will be witnessed between Royla Fernandes of Congress, Menino de Bandar of NCP, and Hanzel Fernandes of AAP. In Mormugao taluka which has two ZP constituencies — Sancoale and Cortalim — Congress faced humiliation after BJP candidate Anita Thorat got elected unopposed in Sancoale. In Cortalim, it’s a three-cornered fight between Congress, AAP and an independent. Cortalim has a large concentration of ST votes that has played a crucial role in determining the fortunes of political parties. However, as this ZP constituency is now reserved for ST candidates, the tribal votes are likely to get divided among the three candidates – independent Antonio Vas, Lopinho Xavier of Congress and Pobre Vaz of AAP. Of the altogether 35 candidates in the fray in the Salcete and Mormugao talukas, 15 are independents. The fate of these, political observers said, is closely linked to the fortunes of the two principal political parties in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coal-war-to-play-pivotal-part-in-salcete-and-mormugaos-zilla-election-result/articleshow/79651568.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bangla bands gear up to spread Christmas cheer with music at year-end live show||KOLKATA: Bangla bands are hoping for Christmas cheer to light up the stage. Forty-eight bands, including Bhoomi, Chandrabindoo, Lakkhichhara, Dohar, Kaya, Sohor and Morudyan, are scheduled to perform for the state government’s Sangeet Mela from December 24 to 31 and for most participants, this will be the first on-ground live show since the pandemic broke out. “It has fallen on me to organize the entire bandwagon at Deshapriya Park ever since Didi put me in charge in 2011. This will be Bhoomi's first show since the pandemic-induced lockdown,” said Soumitra Ray, frontman for Bhoomi. “I’m glad even young Genx bands, including Desh, Missing Link, Shuoponka, Groovers, Milliputs, Alienz and Yellow Taxi Stories, are so enthusiastic about participating in Sangeet Mela.” Gaurab Chatterjee, founder member and drummer of Lakhhichhara, is euphoric about returning to the stage. In 21 years of his career, he has apparently never stayed away from the stage for 11 months. Lakhhichhara’s last physical concert was in January. Around that time, their vocalist, Rajiv Mitra, had jaundice. By the time he recovered, pandemic had broken out. “This gap of 11 months from stage has been excruciatingly difficult. I wrote my ICSE in 1999. That year, my family didn’t allow me to do shows. Thereafter, I have been a regular on stage. By first year in college, we had released our first album. I am looking forward to doing the closing act for December 30,” Chatterjee said. Apart from opening with ‘Ke ki bole gyalo amay’, the band will also perform their new song, ‘Kadajawle’. Chandrabindoo frontman Anindya Chatterjee has a stage show offer for December 24. “But if that doesn’t happen, the 31st show at Sangeet Mela will be our first after the lockdown,” he said. For Dohar, this will be the third live show during the pandemic. About ensuring physical distancing, band co-founder Rajib Das said, “Chairs will be spaced out. But, I admit it will be difficult to monitor.” Bhoomi’s Ray said talks had been on to ensure no one was allowed inside without a mask and that only performers would be allowed through the artistes’ gate. “Sanitization will be done for all artistes. We will not allow anyone near the stage and use guardrails. If required, I will stop the show if people don’t maintain physical distancing,” Ray added. Cactus, Fossils and Krosswindz will stay away. “Fossils and Cactus will not feature due to the much larger sound requirements that cannot be provided. We would have loved to feature them as they’re such wonderful bands with massive following. Krosswindz’s Tuki messaged to say his doctor advised him not to do shows now.” Fossils’ manager Rupsha Dasgupta agreed the band needed a big sound arrangement. “Besides, we still don’t feel it is safe for stage shows,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-bands-gear-up-to-spread-christmas-cheer-with-music-at-year-end-live-show/articleshow/79650379.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||List of 94k healthcare workers, including nursing students, sent to Centre for Covid vaccine from Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand health department has prepared a list of over 1 lakh healthcare workers, including paramedical staff, ASHAs, ANMs and even students, who were placed in the priority list for the administration of the Covid-19 vaccine. The health department officials said they have also sent the detailed requirement of technical and other assistance that would be needed in the administration of the vaccines. The health department’s list, shared with the central government, mentions 94,000 doctors (both government and private), paramedical staff, ASHAs, ANMs, nursing and MBBS students. Secretary (health), Amit Negi, said, “As per direction of the Centre, we have identified doctors, nurses, paramedics, ASHAs, ANMs and all other healthcare volunteers. We have also shared the requirements of freezers, cooling chains needed to preserve the vaccine,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/list-of-94k-healthcare-workers-including-nursing-students-sent-to-centre-for-covid-vaccine-from-uttarakhand/articleshow/79649125.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Upcycling of plastic, e-waste catches on as trash put to good use||Dehradun: Upcycling e-waste and plastic waste is gaining momentum in the city, with several social outfits and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) chipping in and putting discarded materials to good use. Doon-based NGO ‘Waste Warriors’ recently partnered with the civic authorities to conduct plastic collection camps where free masks were given to those bringing in their plastic trash. Another city-based NGO ‘Building Dreams Foundation’ has built structures like tree guards, school boundary walls and park benches using eco-bricks, which are basically plastic bottles stuffed with trash. A 1lt bottle accommodates around 700 gm plastic. Till now, the organisation said it has managed to turn 15,000 kg of plastic into eco-bricks. Eco Group, another such NGO, which has made chairs, table and benches from plastic waste at Khalanga Park, Oli village and Defence Colony, said it has launched 50 campaigns in different RWAs to promote segregation of waste at the source. Its founder Ashish Garg said, “It’s very important to separate plastic waste at home since it is very difficult to pick out reusable items at a landfill.” CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had also recently inaugurated a studio cum restaurant at the Information Technology Development Agency (ITDA) premises, which was the first such structure to have been completely made out of electronic, or e-waste. The roof was made of one lakh CDs and DVDs, walls and seating area out of other defunct electronics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/upcycling-of-plastic-e-waste-catches-on-as-trash-put-to-good-use/articleshow/79649129.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
December 10, 2020||Pune||Gaur enters Pune's Kothrud, dies after run & capture amid crowding||PUNE: A gaur strayed into a housing society in Kothrud here on Wednesday morning and ran wildly over 3km for more than four hours before it was tranquillized and captured by forest officials. However, the animal could not be revived and died. Officials said the gaur, commonly known as the Indian bison, suffered injuries as it crashed into a number of vehicles and metal gates while running past hundreds of onlookers crowding to have a glimpse of the animal or take photographs of it. “The officials involved in the rescue operation had a difficult time rescuing the gaur with so many people around. Unfortunately, the animal could not be revived. We are awaiting the final post-mortem report,” Nitin Kakodkar, Maharashtra’s principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), told TOI. The preliminary post-mortem report, which arrived late on Wednesday, ruled out tranquillizer overdose as the reason of the gaur’s death. Officials and experts said the exhaustion caused by the running for over three km, due to a muscular condition commonly found in herbivores, as well as the stress due to the crowding and commotion, could be the probable causes of the gaur’s death. Residents of Mahatma Society in Kothrud, located close to the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, said they spotted the gaur around 6.45am and alerted the police and wildlife rescuers. A resident said the animal had a few injury marks around its mouth. The housing society is barely a kilometre away from the forest areas of the National Defence Academy (NDA). “The gaur looked healthy, but it seemed injured around the nose and mouth. The animal was also bleeding through its mouth. The police and wildlife rescuers cordoned off the area and put up nets. But the team that used the tranquillizer came around 10am,” said Prashant Deshpande, a Mahatma Society resident. As teams from the forest department and fire brigade arrived, hundreds of people from the vicinity milled around to watch the operation and capture footage on their phones. The police had a difficult time keeping them at a distance. Despite the use of the tranquillizer through a dart, the gaur ran through the streets along Mahatma Society and through the lanes of Jijainagar. It collided with a number of vehicles and metal gates, before it was finally captured by the forest officials at Bhartinagar off Paud Road. Local forest officials could not be reached to ascertain the reason for the gaur’s death. In a statement, deputy conservator of forests (Pune) Rahul Patil said crowding of people and the ensuing commotion hampered their operations. “The cause of its death could be due to respiratory insufficiency leading to cardiovascular failure, shock and death. The final cause of death will be given after the receipt of lab reports,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gaur-strays-into-kothrud-dies-after-capture-amid-crowding/articleshow/79651534.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Married woman withdraws widow pension for 18 years, asked to return entire amount||Uttarkashi: A woman from Sidari village in Mori block has been served notice by the Uttarkashi district social welfare department for receiving a widow pension for 18 years despite being married. Officials have asked the woman to return what she owes the department, which is around Rs 1 lakh, or face legal action. The matter came to light following a two-year-old complaint. Kesar Singh, a former pradhan of Sidari village, had alleged in 2018 that Pratima Devi had been collecting pension for the last 18 years despite having a husband. A departmental investigation revealed that the woman had indeed been widowed, after which she started receiving the widow pension. However, she remarried and didn’t inform the department. Kuldeep Rawat, the district probation officer, said, “We have asked the woman to return the money within two weeks. Otherwise, there will be legal action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/married-woman-withdraws-widow-pension-for-18-years-asked-to-return-entire-amount/articleshow/79649155.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
December 10, 2020||Pune||PMR’s daily recoveries on the rise, 12 more dead||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 recoveries climbed to 1,028 in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, taking its total discharges above 3.31 lakh. The rural areas recorded highest 430 recoveries in the region in the last 24 hours. PMR added 782 new cases on Wednesday, pushing its tally above 3.49 lakh. The PMC and PCMC areas added 338 and 167 infections, respectively, in the last 24 hours, while the rural areas recorded 277 new cases. On Tuesday, the region had recorded 924 recoveries, while 660 patients were declared cured on Monday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 12 patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Wednesday, four each from the PMC, PCMC and rural areas. The region’s death toll has increased to 8,537 so far. The count of active patients in the region dropped to 10,139 on Wednesday. This included 3,645 patients admitted in various hospitals for treatment and 6,494 patients in home isolation. The PMC limits had 4,881 patients in home quarantine, highest in the region. The report said daily sample testing increased to 9,899 on Wednesday. As many as 3,708 tests were conducted in the PMC limits, 3,571 in the PCMC limits and 2,620 in the rural areas. Citizens with symptoms should undergo testing at the earliest, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-daily-recoveries-on-the-rise-12-more-dead/articleshow/79651545.cms||Sarang Dastane
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Panel asks patient to pay dues in EMIs||Kolkata: In a case where the family of a patient pleaded inability to clear hospital dues, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has told them to clear the dues in monthly instalments after asking the hospital to offer 50% discount on the due amount. “First take a decision on paying the dues as you had gone to a private hospital for treatment,” the commission told Anuradha Sarkar, the complainant, whose 62-year-old brother had been admitted in Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals for 73 days with neurological issues. Dipak Kumar Sarkar, a resident of Indralok Estate in Cossipore, suffered a stroke at home in the second week of September. Initially, he was taken to Desun Hospital where he was advised to go to some other facility because of his critical neurological problems. He was shifted to Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on September 16. It was alleged that the family wanted the patient to get discharged within a few days as the bill was going up and they were unable to afford to the treatment. The patient’s sister also claimed that the hospital did not agree to discharge the patient. The complainant alleged that she and her daughter were assaulted by the security on arrival at the hospital. On the other hand, the hospital accused the mother-daughter duo of assaulting hospital staffers and cops. Both the sides lodged complaints with Phoolbagan police station. The complainant went to the health commission after they were asked to pay Rs 38.7 lakh for the 73-day stay. While the family had cleared a part of it — Rs 5 lakh from insurance and the rest from their own pocket, Rs 19 lakh was still due. During the hearing, Anuradha pleaded that the family was not in a position to pay the due amount. The commission asked Apollo to consider waiving off 50% of the due amount. The hospital has agreed to offer Rs 9.5 lakh. “We have told the patient’s family to pay the hospital in a monthly instalment of Rs 50,000 for a year starting from December. In case the family clears Rs 6 lakh within 12 months, we have asked the hospital not to pressurize them further for the rest Rs 3.5 lakh,” said justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, WBCERC chairman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-asks-patient-to-pay-dues-in-emis/articleshow/79650377.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 10, 2020||Pune||Prize-winning ZP teacher tests +ve||Pune: Ranjitsinh Disale (32), the Zilla Parishad teacher from Solapur who won the USD 1million Global Teacher Prize 2020 last week, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. In his WhatsApp status, he has stated, “After finding symptoms, I got myself tested and I have been found positive for Covid-19. I request all of you who had come in contact with me in the last few days to get yourselves tested.” Disale was felicitated by many people, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, and his deputy Ajit Pawar. After his return from Mumbai, he started showing symptoms akin to Covid-19. Among Disale’s family members, his wife tested positive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/prize-winning-zp-teacher-tests-ve/articleshow/79651566.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Goa govt declares polling day as paid holiday||PANAJI: The government has declared December 12 a paid holiday for the zilla panchayats elections. The holiday will also apply to “registered voters of the poll bound areas even if they are working outside the territorial limits of such areas” and will also apply to those belonging to central, state government offices, undertakings and other entities, the government stated. The paid holiday will apply to industrial workers in Goa, daily wage workers of government departments and state government industrial departments, commercial and industrial workers of private establishments in Goa, workers of all private establishments, daily wage/ casual workers employed in any business, trade, industrial undertakings or any other establishments, stated under secretary general administration II, Shripad Arlekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-declares-polling-day-as-paid-holiday/articleshow/79651616.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Bareilly||Minor girl thrown off terrace in Rampur||RAMPUR: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly thrown off the terrace of a building by a 21-year-old youth after a failed rape bid in a locality under the jurisdiction of Civil Lines police station. The girl was rushed to the district hospital with multiple fractures, where doctors referred her to a trauma centre given her critical condition, said police. Later, Rampur additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh confirmed the incident. The accused, a resident of Pahari Gate area under Civil Lines police station, was arrested on Wednesday afternoon and booked under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, said SHO Durga Singh. On December 6, a four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 16-year-old relative in a locality under Bilaspur tehsil. The girl was admitted to a hospital while the accused was arrested and sent to a juvenile home. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/failed-rape-bid-minor-girl-thrown-off-terrace-in-rampur/articleshow/79648268.cms||Nazar Abbas
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Deceased doctor booked for killing hubby, 2 kids||Nagpur: Koradi police on Wednesday booked a 40-year-old doctor on charges of murdering her husband and two minor children before committing suicide herself. Addressing media, DCP (Zone-V) Neelotpal said the deceased Dr Shushma Rane has been booked under Section 302 of IPC. He said the murder charge has been invoked following final opinion of doctors based on viscera examination that Dhiraj, a professor at an engineering college, and two children, Dhruv (11) and Vannya (6), had died due to injection of excessive dose of anaesthetics at their Om Nagar residence. Dr Shushma had procured the medicines from a hospital in Dhantoli where she worked on August 18, the day when she killed the trio before hanging herself, said the DCP. Though handwriting in the suicide note purportedly left by Dr Sushma matched with the hospital’s prescription she had written, report of handwriting expert is still awaited. The months long investigation revealed that the husband-wife did not have a cordial relationship. “Dr Sushma’s husband was of very suspicious nature and he had even diverted her phone calls to his cell phone,” said Neelotpal. She was not free to call even her parents, the investigation revealed. Dr Sushma never resisted nor objected to her husband for his behaviour, claimed the DCP. Dhiraj, an alcoholic, was in contact with call girls and had also invited a few of them to his house when other family members were not at home, the investigation revealed. The day before the incident, Dhiraj had returned home heavily drunk and had nearly 45-minute chat with his wife inside their four-wheeler in the parking lot of their flat. The investigation also ruled out possibility of any financial crisis as the duo’s combined take-home salary was around Rs1 lakh per month. They had two liabilities — a Rs16 lakh home loan and another Rs4 lakh vehicle loan. PSI GB Kankal and woman PSI KV Jagtap completed the investigation and now we have booked the deceased doctor under Section 302 of IPC, said the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deceased-doctor-booked-for-killing-hubby-2-kids/articleshow/79650375.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||FIR against 4 for illegally selling municipal council land||Mussoorie: The Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) has filed an FIR against four persons, for their alleged involvement in illegally selling MMC land on which the buyers have even built a petrol pump. The case came to light after a ‘Land Fraud Committee’ headed by the Garhwal commissioner directed MMC to lodge the FIR against the accused. In their letter to the Dehradun senior superintendent police (SSP) on Wednesday, MMC requested that an FIR be filed against Sunil Kumar Goel and Sanjay Kumar Goel, who are currently running a petrol pump on the aforesaid land, along with two others. MMC has claimed the accused of illegal sale and encroachment on MMC land at Kincraig near Mussoorie — comprising of a training centre run by a social club, a public toilet, a godown and a college canteen — on which they have built a petrol pump. Speaking to TOI, MMC chairman Anuj Gupta said the land belongs to MMC, and that its possession had been transferred on the basis of a third-party settlement, without approval of the MMC board. “MMC has filed an FIR against concerned persons for this illegal act,” Gupta said. Mussoorie station house officer Devendra Aswal said he has received intimation from the office of the SSP regarding the complaint by MMC officials, and that an FIR would be registered by late evening. In 1995, MMC had given its land on lease to a social club to build a vocational training centre for the youth. In 2007, the club transferred the land lease to Sunil Kumar Goel, based on a written acceptance of the lease transfer given by the then MMC chairman. Subsequently, in 2010, the club ostensibly “sold” the building on the said MMC land to Sanjay Kumar Goel for Rs 3 lakh. However, based on the complaint of a social activist, the Garhwal commissioner initiated an enquiry through the district magistrate, which revealed certain anomalies. The Garhwal commissioner then asked for a SIT probe, following which, the Land Fraud Committee headed by the commissioner ordered MMC to file an FIR in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fir-against-4-for-illegally-selling-municipal-council-land/articleshow/79649180.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jewellery worth Rs 7 crore looted in daylight Darbhanga robbery||DARBHANGA/PATNA: In a daylight robbery barely an hour before a high-level meeting was chaired by Nitish Kumar to review law and order situation in the state, an armed gang looted jewellery worth Rs 7 crore and Rs 2 lakh in cash from a jeweller in Darbhanga on Wednesday. They also shot at and injured an employee of an adjacent store while fleeing. The robbers wearing face masks barged into Alankar Jewellers located at Bada Bazar under Town police station around 10.30 am. They held the shop owner, Sunil Lath, and six employees captive at gunpoint and carried out the loot in less than10 minutes. The shop owner’s brother, Pawan Kumar Lath, said, “Five robbers entered the shop one after another while three others stood guard outside keeping a watch. The criminals first collected the ornaments put on display for customers and then from a chest.” One of the robbers threatened to shoot the owner when he delayed opening the chest. They collected the gold ornaments in a bag and escaped after firing in the air outside the shop. However, they dropped a bag containing some ornaments while fleeing, he added. Raj Kumar, stated to be an employee of an adjacent jewellery shop, was shot at and injured by the robbers while fleeing. The injured man is said to be out of danger, according to a press release issued by the police headquarters. The exact value of the looted jewellery is under evaluation, the released added. Pawan Lath claimed that the manner of the robbery hinted at the involvement of professional criminals. Locals said the gang members had parked their motorbikes hardly 200 metres away from the shop. “People realised a robbery was taking place only when the criminals opened fire indiscriminately to intimidate the local traders and keep them at bay,” said Santosh Lath, a local. Darbhanga SSP Babu Ram said three empty cartridges recovered from the spot. A sniffer dog has been pressed into service to trace the criminals. “An FSL team later visited the site and collected samples,” he added. An investigating officer said, “The entire incident is on CCTV footage. Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the criminals involved in one of the biggest robberies in the town on Wednesday.” According to ADGP (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar, Darbhanga City SP Ashok Prasad will head the SIT formed under the supervision of Darbhanga range IG. “Three separate teams are raiding possible hideouts of the robbers. An STF team has been despatched from the police headquarters to assist the district police, and the CID SP will assist in the probe,” the ADGP said. Senior officers at the police headquarters are monitoring the investigation, Kumar added. Expressing concern over the daring incident, the BJP MLA from Darbhanga Town Sanjay Sarawogi said, “It appears that the fear of police is gone among the anti-socials, who are committing crimes at will.” Bank agent shot, Rs 1 lakh looted in Gaya: Two miscreants looted Rs one lakh from Pawan Singh, a collection agent of Bandhan bank. The miscreants shot Pawan in the thigh when he resisted their loot bid at Nadraganj under Civil Lines police station area on Wednesday morning. Pawan is recuperating at the Magadh medical college. City SP Rakesh Kumar said, “Police have launched intensive vehicle checking in the town area to identify the miscreants behind the incident.” (Inputs by Alok Kumar in Gaya)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jewellery-worth-rs-7-crore-looted-in-daylight-darbhanga-robbery/articleshow/79650206.cms||Binay Kumar Jha
December 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Allopathy doctors to now mention MBBS MD/MS||PUNE: Postgraduate allopathy doctors will soon mention the short form of graduation degree (MBBS) before the post-graduation degrees (MS/MD). The Maharashtra Medical Council — the governing council of allopathy doctors in Maharashtra — will issue a directive in this regard to help people make an informed decision while consulting a specialist doctor. Shivkumar Utture, the president of MMC, said, “In a general body meeting on Monday (December 7), we discussed this. The MMC will issue an advisory/directive in this regard in a day or two.” The move is set to be effective in the wake of the recent Union government notification allowing ayurveda postgraduate doctors specialised in shalya (surgery) and shalakya (diagnosis/prevention) to perform 39 general surgery procedures and 19 other procedures involving the eye, ear, nose, throat (ENT) and bone. The allopathy doctors’ postgraduation degrees are Master of Medicine (MD) and Master of Surgery (MS). Incidentally, the postgraduation degrees of ayurveda doctors are also named as MD and MS. “It is now imperative that postgraduate allopathy doctors should differentiate by mentioning the MBBS degree before their postgraduate MS/MD degrees,” Utture said. All MBBS doctors get registered with the MMC based on their medical degree (MBBS). Their postgraduation and other higher qualifications are considered as additional qualifications by the MMC. Close to 1.45 lakh allopathy practitioners in Maharashtra (MBBS and above) were registered with the MMC, Utture said. Calling it a much-needed and welcome move, Sanjay Patil, the vice-president of the state chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said, “In rural parts, an ayurveda degree holder simply writes the abbreviation of doctor (Dr) before his/her name. He/she never writes her degree, which is misleading. Again, postgraduate ayurveda practitioners deliberately writing MS or MD is also very rampant. It creates a false impression in people's minds. There is less awareness about the degree nomenclatures among the masses,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/allopathy-doctors-to-mention-mbbs-before-md-ms-soon/articleshow/79651573.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 10, 2020||Pune||Strike unlikely to hamper care: NIMA||Pune: Ayurveda (BAMS) and allied doctors’ associations, along with homeopaths, will keep their clinics open on Friday in view of the nationwide token strike by allopaths. “A very small number of allopaths practice as family physicians or general practitioners these days. Ayurveda practitioners and homeopaths are mainly preserving the ‘family physician’ concept in India today. Hence, the IMA’s strike won’t affect basic healthcare services,” said Vinayak Tembhurnikar, national president of NIMA. “The protest will bring to fore the first point of care for many,” Vijay Satav, president of NIMA, Pune branch, said. Sanjay Patil, IMA vice-president, state branch, said, “Almost 15,000 to 20,000 of the total 45,000 IMA members/doctors today are practicing in state’s semi-urban and rural parts.” On the issue of general practitioners, Patil said, “If everyone start practicing as GPs, where would we refer patients for specialists’ consultation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strike-unlikely-to-hamper-care-nima/articleshow/79651604.cms||Umesh Isalkar
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Resume regular services on NMR, says Raja||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris MP A Raja has shot off a letter to the general manager of Southern Railway to resume regular services on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) to boost the hill district’s tourism appeal. Stating that the NMR was declared a Unesco World Heritage in 2005, he said there has been an increase in the tourism activities in the hill station since then. “The NMR is one of the most photographed railways in the country, besides being featured in movies and advertisements. Thereby, the NMR contributes towards the economy of the hill district,” the letter read. Pointing out that the services on the NMR was suspended following the Covid-19 outbreak, he said the Southern Railway had operated chartered trains from Mettupalayam to Ooty on Saturday and Sunday (Dec 5& 6) after the state government allowed resumption of services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/resume-regular-services-on-nmr-says-raja/articleshow/79650385.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Pune||Inoculation sites will need minimum of three rooms||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope has said the process to identify vaccination centres is currently underway in Maharashtra. According to guidelines, vaccination centres will need at least three rooms: one for waiting, the second for administering the vaccine and a third for observation where the person will have to wait after the shot is given. Tope added that officials have also started training vaccinators. He said the vaccination programme will rely on mobile teams and district-wise committees that will function in a way similar to the election process. Priority groups among health staff will be vaccinated at primary care centres, which will be prepared to handle at least 100 people on-site. Senior citizens above 50 will be administered shots at schools, community halls and at the offices of local administrations. The Covid-19 vaccine introduction is expected to last over a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/inoculation-sites-will-need-minimum-of-three-rooms/articleshow/79651629.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid may push last result of ZP polls to next day||PANAJI: The protocols in place due to the Covid-19 situation in the state are likely to make the wait for results of the zilla panchayat elections longer. Though the counting will start on December 14 at 8am, it is likely to stretch beyond midnight. Initial result trends are expected to start by noon. Considering the sanitisation of the counting halls and social distancing in view of Covid-19, counting may continue even on the next day, a senior officer said. The officer said that counting is manual and after counting, one has to pack the ballot papers in a box and send it to the strong room. If any candidate seeks a recount then it will delay the process further, the officer said. Around 9,500 polling staff, including police personnel, in 1,187 polling booths all over Goa will be a part of the counting exercise. Voting for the ZP elections will be held on December 12. The election, earlier scheduled in March, was postponed due to the pandemic. People without face masks will not be allowed to vote. The model code of conduct came into force with the announcement of the election date and will be in force till midnight of December 14. Elections will be held in 48 seats out of 50 seats. Out of 25 constituencies in South Goa, voting will be conducted in 23 seats. One candidate was elected unopposed in Sancoale constituency, while the election in Navelim constituency has been countermanded following the death of a candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-may-push-last-result-of-zp-polls-to-next-day/articleshow/79651661.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Meerut||A year after giving 'triple talaq', man shoots dead wife & mom-in-law||MEERUT: A man allegedly shot dead his wife and her mother on Wednesday, a year after he was booked for pronouncing the outlawed 'triple talaq'. Rukhsana, in her early 20s, died on the spot while her mother succumbed later in hospital. The incident occurred in Saharanpur’s Alampura village in Gangoh tehsil. The accused was arrested with the weapon used in the crime. Gangoh SHO YD Verma said, “Mohsin, a resident of Shamli, had married Rukhsana a couple of years ago. Last year, he gave her 'triple talaq'. Rukhsana filed a case against him. She later came back to her maternal home in Saharanpur and started living with her mother. Mohsin had been threatening them constantly to withdraw the case. When he did not get the response, Mohsin went to Rukhsana’s house and shot at her and her mother. Both the women received two bullets each.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/a-year-after-giving-triple-talaq-man-shoots-dead-wife-mom-in-law/articleshow/79649185.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||One of four men who gangraped minor in Roorkee arrested||Roorkee: Of the four men that were on the run after allegedly gang raping a minor and beating her brother with iron rods on Sunday evening, one has been arrested on Wednesday. The minor, from Ekkad Khurd village under Pathri police station, Laksar, Roorkee, was returning home on a bike with her brother when they were intercepted around 6pm by the accused. Both of them were discharged from a hospital on Tuesday. According to police, the accused, who happen to be distant relatives of the survivor, had attacked the brother with iron rods first and once he was unconscious, dragged away the girl to a nearby sugarcane field. Once he regained consciousness, the brother dialled police control room and his relatives for help. Both siblings were then rushed to a hospital. On Tuesday, the girl recorded her statement before a magistrate. Police have booked the accused, all residents of Makhiyali village, under sections 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, based on a complaint filed by the survivor’s family on Monday. “We managed to trace one of the accused at his village. The remaining three are still absconding. A search is underway,” said senior sub-inspector at Laksar police station Nitesh Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-of-four-men-who-gangraped-minor-in-roorkee-arrested/articleshow/79649192.cms||Tapan Susheel
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Wild elephant tramples man to death||Udhagamandalam: A 52-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in the Gudalur division of forests on Tuesday, when he ventured into the forest to collect firewood. A forest official identified the deceased as K Mani, of Odakolli village. Guru Swamy Baddal, district forest officer, said the elephant had been roaming in the area for the past few days and the victim was aware of the animal’s presence in the forest. Local residents staged a protest, demanding the forest department to chase the elephant into the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. “We have formed a team for the same,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wild-elephant-tramples-man-to-death/articleshow/79650387.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Goa||Bardez, Tiswadi crucial for BJP to control North Goa||PANAJI: With Bardez and Tiswadi holding the maximum number of MLAs in the district, the stakes are high for the ruling BJP in both these talukas to wrest control of the North Goa zilla panchayat. Of the 25 seats in North Goa, over 50% of the constituencies lie in Bardez and Tiswadi. Bardez has nine ZP constituencies, including Colvale, Sirsaim, Aldona, Reis Magos, Socorro, Penha de Franca, Calangute, Anjuna and Siolim. In the 2015 ZP elections, BJP was able to secure only five seats in the taluka despite having six MLAs. Tiswadi, on the other hand, has five constituencies that include Taleigao, Santa Cruz, Cumbharjua, St Lawrence and Chimbel. During the last ZP election, however, BJP was able to win in just one of these. But considering the political scene since then, a lot has changed. At the time of the 2015 ZP elections, BJP had six MLAs in Bardez and two in Tiswadi. After Congress MLAs joined BJP last year, all the five constituencies in Tiswadi are now with BJP. In Bardez, the saffron party’s strength rose from three to four when Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar joined it in July 2019. BJP had already won Calangute, Mapusa and Aldona in the 2017 assembly elections. Of the remaining five assembly constituencies, two are with GFP – Saligao (Jayesh Salgaonkar) and Siolim (Vinod Paliencar) — while Porvorim is with independent MLA Rohan Khaunte. BJP has been trying hard over the past year to consolidate its base in these three constituencies. Two former ministers, Dayanand Mandrekar (Siolim) and Dilip Parulekar (Saligao), appear to be turning the ZP poll situation to their advantage with an eye on the 2022 assembly elections. Since the new constituency of Porvorim was carved out in 2012, BJP is also making a determined bid to defeat candidates backed by Khaunte. Interestingly, BJP was the only political outfit in Goa that contested the last ZP elections on party lines. Other political parties had supported independent candidates. “BJP was not able to perform well in Bardez and Tiswadi last time because opposition parties had unitedly supported independent candidates and did not let the votes get divided. The upcoming ZP election, however, may prove advantageous for BJP as major political parties like Congress, MGP and AAP have fielded their own candidates,” a political commentator said. While agreeing that the party did not perform well at the 2015 ZP elections, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade exuded confidence of winning a maximum number of seats in both, Bardez and Tiswadi, this time around. On his part, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar, said Congress has faith that its voters will rally behind it. “We have taken up people-centric issues and people are supporting this stand,” Chodankar said. Congress has fielded candidates in all ZP seats in the Tiswadi and Bardez talukas. A political observer said that the results will reflect the mind of the electorate ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. “If BJP wants to have an absolute majority in North Goa ZP polls, it has to sweep them in Bardez and Tiswadi,” an observer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bardez-tiswadi-crucial-for-bjp-to-control-north/articleshow/79651672.cms||Murari Shetye
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||3 pvt hosps directed to offer rebate||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Wednesday asked Medica Hospital to offer a discount of Rs 1.5 lakh to the family of Prabha Devi Vaid who died in the hospital during Covid treatment. The 61-year-old Beliaghata resident had been in ICU on ECMO support for 25 days in August-September, for which the bill was Rs 25 lakh. The hospital has agreed to offer the discount. “Shree Jain Hospital in Howrah has been imposed a token penalty of Rs 10,000 for shifting a patient, who tested positive to Covid, to another hospital without stabilizing his condition,” said Banerjee. Also, Belle Vue Clinic has been directed to offer a discount of Rs 90,000 to the family of Karuna Saraf, who was treated in the hospital for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-pvt-hosps-directed-to-offer-rebate/articleshow/79650396.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||IAF set to give 2.5 acres to Pune airport for vaccine storage||PUNE: The Indian Air Force (IAF) is set to transfer 2.5 acres of its land to Pune airport authorities within a week to improve storage, and transport, of the Covid vaccine developed by the city-based Serum Institute of India. Pune MP Girish Bapat, who heads the Pune airport advisory committee, made the announcement shortly after a meeting on Wednesday he had with senior officials from the Ministry Of Defence (MoD) in Delhi. He said, “I was informed that around a fortnight ago, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the MoD had met to discuss land transfer. The MoD made it clear that if land it owns needs to be transferred to another agency or department, it would need land in exchange. It was then decided at the meeting that in exchange of the 2.5 acres near Pune airport, the IAF would be given a plot and a vacant building in Chandigarh.” Bapat said the land transfer process is expected to be swift. “We will get an approval soon. Within a week, the IAF will provide permissions for the plot transfer to AAI Pune. A work order will then be issued to develop the cargo hold at the plot. The new area will be provided with the infrastructure to store and transport the vaccine safely,” he said. An airport official said, “The 2.5-acre plot is located in front of the BSO (barrack store office) yard of the IAF, towards the airside of the airport. Talks of shifting the cargo area to this plot were on for almost a year, but things were stuck due to the land transfer process. But with Covid-19 and the vaccine development, work can be fast-tracked. The existing cargo hold will be dismantled.” Aviation experts, however, said merely shifting the cargo hold for a vaccine, would not be enough. “Where is the infrastructure and the plan? How will vaccines come to the airport and where is the cold storage facility?” asked aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar. “The airport authorities, in coordination with the district administration and Serum institute, should create such a system. Storage and transport of vaccines is sensitive work and requires expertise,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/iaf-set-to-give-2-5-acres-to-pune-airport-for-vaccine-storage/articleshow/79651662.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard found dead in well with its prey||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A female leopard and a monkey were found dead in a well at a private tea estate at Kilkotagiri in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. Saravanakumar, assistant conservator of forests, Nilgiris division, said the carcasses were first spotted by workers of Bomman tea estate, which is located just 300 meters away from the reserve forest area. “As foul smell emanated, they conducted a search in the area and found the carcasses of the leopard and monkey floating in the well. They immediately informed us.” Forest staff subsequently retrieved the carcasses from the well. “The leopard was aged around four years and the monkey was its prey. After killing the monkey, the leopard seems to have sat on the wire mesh, which was used to cover the well, with the carcass. It tilted and broke because of the animal’s weight and the leopard, along with the dead monkey, fell into the well,” the officer said. The incident, he said, might have occurred at least five days ago. After the postmortem, the carcass of the leopard was burnt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-found-dead-in-well-with-its-prey/articleshow/79650397.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Chennai||Affordable, accessible SII vaccine likely to be Tamil Nadu’s anti-Covid shot||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu recently released the action plan for preparatory activities for Covid-19 vaccine such as identifying frontline workers and assessing cold chain space. Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation managing director P Umanath and director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam speak to TOI about the state’s preparedness. Excerpts: Q: What kind of vaccine are we expecting for Tamil Nadu?Umanath: We have some idea about the vaccine we are likely to receive. It is unlikely that we will use an mRNA vaccine manufactured by Pfizer or Moderna for many reasons. First, they have several pre-orders to fulfil. Second, they may be too expensive for us compared to other vaccines that are in the pipeline. Also, we may not be able to fulfil their cold storage conditions. Whereas, the other vaccines like the desi Serum Institute of India vaccine can be more available, affordable and accessible. In Tamil Nadu, we have the infrastructure in place. Q: How many centres in the state will offer vaccinations?Dr Selvavinayagam: Covid-19 vaccination will cover a large population in a phased manner. We expect a large population to be covered in each phase. For instance, there are more than 1.2 lakh allopathic doctors in the state, who will be part of the 5 lakh frontline workers to be vaccinated during the first phase. For this, as of now, we have identified 47,000 vaccination centres. Q: How many vaccines will Tamil Nadu receive in the first phase? Do we have the storage capacity for them?Dr Selvavinayagam: The number of vaccines will be based on the number of health workers each state has. Under the national universal immunisation programme the centre supplies vaccines to the state government. They are sent to the centralised warehouse from where it is picked and sent to different government hospitals and health centres across the state. The public health department maintains storage with a varied capacity at 2,665 sites. This includes a statewide vaccine store, 10 regional stores, 44 district vaccination stores, 23 units at medical college hospitals and 2,286 PHC, besides storage facilities at private medical colleges and cantonment hospitals. For the universal vaccination programme, the state has 5,488 cold chain equipment including 15 walk-in freezers, 2,769 ice-lined refrigerators and 2,661 deep freezers. We are also creating additional storage for Covid-19 vaccines. Q: What is the additional storage we are creating for the new vaccine?Umanath: TNMSC has storage facilities for non-vaccine drugs such as snake venom serum and insulin. There are 50 walk-in coolers in TNMSC warehouses in 32 districts with a total capacity of 11.9 lakh litres. Of these 50 coolers, 14 of them are functional and 37 have been newly installed at a cost of Rs2.78 crore. This should be enough for us to store about 2 crore vaccine doses. We have strengthened the non-vaccine facility so there will be no hindrance to the vaccine programme. Q: Do these coolers have the capacity to store vaccines at the required temperature? Do we have the capacity to maintain a cold chain while this is being transported to the vaccination centres?Dr Selvavinayagam: Walk-in coolers and freezers have the capacity to maintain drugs at 2˚C-8˚C. We still do not have clarity on the kind of requirements, but it can be arranged. Since we have been immunising lakhs of children and pregnant women under the immunisation programme at the PHC and health centre level, we should be able to handle transport and cold chain management of Covid vaccines too. The state has also made a request to the Centre for about 1,500 more ice-line refrigerators, 1,000 deep freezers, walk-in coolers and freezers, and refrigeration vaccine vehicles. Q: Do we have a list of frontline workers who will be vaccinated in the first phase?Dr Selvavinayagam: The state has identified the institutions — public and private — with healthcare workers, and is preparing a list of those workers with their identity. In addition, we will be vaccinating people from state and central police, armed forces, home guard, civil defence organisation and disaster management staff. We are also asking districts to be ready with the names and details of citizens who are above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities, so they can be prioritised in the second phase. Q: Do we have a system in place for monitoring the vaccination programme?Umanath: As of now, the state has formed three committees — a state steering committee chaired by chief secretary that will meet every month, a state task force headed by the health secretary that will meet every 15 days and a district task force headed by district magistrate that will meet every week. These teams will plan for the vaccine rollout step by step. Initially, the meetings may take up review of cold chain preparedness and status of database on health workers, while plans for other activities such as site micro planning and capacity building will be added later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/affordable-accessible-sii-vaccine-likely-to-be-states-anti-covid-shot/articleshow/79653095.cms||Pushpa Narayan
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Rain, snow in the offing in Uttarakhand on Dec 12, fog to engulf plain areas||DEHRADUN: The regional meteorological centre on Wednesday issued a snowfall forecast in the high altitude areas of Uttarakhand and predicted rainfall in the foothills on December 12. “There is a western disturbance approaching and it will have an impact on the weather in Uttarakhand. Places located at 2,500 meters and above might receive snowfall. The low-lying areas are likely to witness rainfall,” said Bikram Singh, director of MeT office. According to the MeT office, very light-to-light snow and rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places, especially in the higher reaches of Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Pithoragarh districts of Uttarakhand. Foothills, including the state capital Dehradun, will start witnessing cloudy weather from December 11 evening, while dense fog is likely to engulf the plain areas in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar districts. Also, the temperature levels may drop across Uttarakhand, said Met officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-snow-in-the-offing-in-ukhand-on-dec-12-fog-to-engulf-plain-areas/articleshow/79649199.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Christmas vacations for schools: To be or not to be||Nagpur: Confusion prevailed among many CBSE schools in rural Nagpur whether or not the state government will issue a notice regarding the duration of Christmas vacations. The assumption is based on the state education department’s now defunct order in which Diwali vacations were cut short. But such confusion is unfounded as the state education department neither has any concept called “Christmas vacation” nor does it interfere in the academic calendar or other boards operating in Maharashtra. While CBSE-affiliated schools have a proper “winter break” which covers Christmas and New Year, state board schools follow a single-day off on December 25 which is a gazetted holiday. However, apart from the Christian minority status schools, many others give a Christmas break for at least a week. This ‘vacation’ is carved out by off-setting it against summer vacations, principals quota etc. Similarly, the other minority schools too give such short vacations, from three days to a week, on religious festivals like Guru Nanak Jayanti, Durga Pujo etc. Carving out these holidays is actually not such a mammoth task as it seems. A school principal said, “In a typical eight-day schedule, you have one Sunday and then Christmas as regular holidays. So it’s only a matter six days or more, depending on the length of the vacation. These can very easily be adjusted against summer vacations or other discretionary holiday quota.” Another principal said, “The rule says that for primary students, the holidays must not exceed 86 days and for the secondary section, 76 days. So out of a pool of over an average of 80 days, it’s very easy to adjust holidays during festivals of minority schools.” This decades-old arrangement by state board-affiliated schools works smoothly and is based on mutual understanding with local officials allowing all minority institutes that flexibility with the holiday schedule. For CBSE schools, the state education department rarely interferes with the holiday schedule. An education department official, who did not wish to be named, said, “So far, we have only put our foot down when asking them to give holidays, not cancel or shorten them. If I remember correctly, a few years ago we directed them to give holidays for locally sensitive festivals like Pola etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/christmas-vacations-for-schools-to-be-or-not-to-be/articleshow/79650427.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 10, 2020||Pune||90,000 health workers’ info uploaded||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope said data upload of healthcare workers’ details, up for priority vaccination, would be completed by the end of this week. The work had slowed down due to glitches but so far, names and details of 90,000 HCWs from the state have been uploaded onto the Covin app, which has been developed by the Centre to track vaccine supply and dosage.  When asked about hesitancy, Tope said none of the registered individuals have backed out so far. He said, “I have received no complaints. Vaccines will be tested for safety and efficacy by the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/90000-health-workers-info-uploaded/articleshow/79651663.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Drug dealers held near tutorial home in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Two women from Bhangar and a man from Dhapa were arrested outside a tutorial and a department store on Vivekananda Road under Amherst Street police station with 690 gram heroin on Tuesday. The accused were identified as Gopal Harijan (45), his wife Sonali Harijan (45) and Masura Bibi (30). Their clients included some aspiring doctors, students and IT professionals, said cops. Some of their aides use their convent education and fluency in English to trap “upper class” customers. “The case was recorded following a complaint of sergeant Arghya Saha of Amherst Street police station. We have seized Rs 5,200 cash along with the heroin. Acting on a tip-off, we nabbed the accused. We have started an investigation,” said a police officer, adding that an NDPS case has been registered in this regard. According to the police, drug peddlers from east Kolkata and South 24 Parganas have been working in a different pattern since the pandemic broke out. With their clients mostly working or attending classes from home, they are moving from one place to another and choosing some spots like pan shops, private tutorials and departmental stores. Women are mostly used as final suppliers of the contraband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drug-dealers-held-near-tutorial-home/articleshow/79650431.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Netizens upload videos of bike racing to alert police||KOLKATA: Citizens have uploaded the videos of rash bike riding by some groups in the city on social media and urged cops to crack down on them. Most of the roads, where the bike racing was captured on video, are easily identifiable. Twitter user Kaustav, who shared such a video, said, “Please take necessary actions against the person riding a bike in Kolkata at a very high speed (150kmph). Check the video with a link.” DC (Traffic) Rupesh Kumar said they will check the video. “Please inbox us your contact number, date, time and place for further correspondence in this regard,” — it was tweeted from the officer’s twitter handle. Another social media user, Soumik Dey, took to Facebook and tagged Kolkata Police in another video. “This is CR avenue, where these bikers are racing. Please take action,” he said. The videos posted by netizens indicate that rogue biking is rearing its head again in the city since the lockdown. “We have started night checking while our surprise checks will be intensified,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. “Rogue bike riding has always been an issue during this time of the year. We encourage citizens to share all information with us,” said a traffic department officer. Citizens from different parts of the city have contacted TOI, claiming that there has been a sudden rise in rogue biking as compared to the previous few months. “Cops have several tasks in the pandemic. But they need to pay heed to this nuisance. During lockdown these bikers had completely stopped racing as cops stayed put on the roads. But with special drives against them dwindling, the rogue bikers are taking over the stretches of Canal Road and even a small stretch on the Narkeldanga Main Road at night,” said Sagarika Sarkar, who works in hospitality industry and has to travel at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/netizens-upload-videos-of-bike-racing-to-alert-police/articleshow/79650475.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||14 new Covid cases take tally to 7,619 in Nilgiris||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris logged 14 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 7,619, of which 205 are active cases. While Ooty saw three people getting tested positive for the virus, the remaining cases were reported from rural areas. With 22 patients getting discharged from treatment centres on the day, the number of recovered patients has touched 7,372 in the hill retreat, where the recovery rate stands at 96.7%. Of the 205 active cases, 10 are undergoing treatment at government hospitals in Coimbatore and another 20 at private hospitals in that district. At least 55 patients are in home quarantine and the remaining cases are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur, and two Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/14-new-cases-take-tally-to-7619-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79650411.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur police books Delhi man for sharing child pornography content||RUDRAPUR: The city police on Wednesday booked a man from Delhi for allegedly sharing child pornography content on the internet. According to the police, the accused, Neeraj Bhandari, a resident of Trilokpuri, Preet Vihar, New Delhi, has been booked under section 67 (b) (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit acts) of the IT Act, 2000, and section 274 (obscene act) of the Indian Penal Code. Notably, the cases related to child pornography, across the state, are being monitored by the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC). “While tracking people accessing child pornography, NCMEC identified the accused, Bhandari, and alerted the Uttarakhand police. They submitted a report on his Internet activities along with the IP address and his location, which was traced in Rudrapur,” said Amit Kumar, circle officer (CO) of Rudrapur police. The police suspect that the accused might have erased his data. “Only FSL (FMRIB Software Library) analysis on the digital devices seized will reveal his activities,” the officer added. So far, six cases related to child pornography have been filed in Udham Singh Nagar. Of these, two cases have been registered in Kashipur, two in Khatima, and one in Pulbhatta. CO City Amit Kumar said that the first case of child pornography was filed in Rudrapur. “We have started the probe and will take necessary action,” said CO Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rudrapur-police-books-delhi-man-for-sharing-child-pornography-content/articleshow/79649201.cms||Aakash Ahuja
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Woman hurt in leopard attack||Pithoragarh: A leopard attacked and critically injured a 22-year-old woman, Deepa Rawat, in Chandak region of Pithoragarh on Wednesday. “The attack took place when Deepa was cutting grass with other women. The leopard left the woman only after others started making noise to scare it,” said Dinesh Joshi, forest ranger, Pithoragarh. Deepa is undergoing treatment and is out of danger, said LS Bora, surgeon at Pithoragarh district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-hurt-in-leopard-attack/articleshow/79649211.cms||Prem Punetha
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka assembly OKs anti-cow slaughter bill amid opposition||BENGALURU: Soon after the anti-cow slaughter bill was tabled in the Karnataka legislative assembly on Wednesday, some BJP MLAs led by animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan and RDPR minister KS Eshwarappa offered a special puja to cows brought into the Vidhana Soudha premises. “Gaumata is my mother. With her blessings and six crore people of Karnataka, we managed to do this. It’s the first time cow puja has been performed in Vidhana Soudha premises,’’ said Chauhan. Sporting saffron shawls, BJP members raised ‘Gau mata ki jai’ and ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ slogans inside the assembly moments after the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill-2020 was passed amid protests by Congress members. BJP needs JD(S) help for passing bill todayThe bill increases jail terms and penalties for various offences and empowers police officers to seize and inspect vehicles allegedly used for smuggling of cattle or beef. It increases the maximum jail term from the earlier one year (2010 Act) to maximum seven years. The penalty of Rs 25,000 has been hiked to Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for various offences. The bill also seeks a total ban on slaughter of cows in the state and stringent punishment for those involved in smuggling, illegal transportation, atrocities on cows and slaughtering. The bill has to pass the test in the upper house on Thursday where BJP needs the support of JD(S). All eyes will be on the HD Deve Gowdaled party as it’s facing flak for supporting the contentious Land Reforms Act. As Chauhan tabled the bill, Congress MLAs led by leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah trooped into the well of the House and raised slogans for not informing them about the bill in the Business Advisory Committee meeting. They also expressed fears that the bill, if passed in the council, may be misused for polarisation on communal lines and target minorities. The BJP said the bill is to protect cows which are considered holy by Hindus. The Congress will boycott assembly proceedings on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-assembly-oks-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-amid-opposition/articleshow/79653417.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur division constitutes teams to implement guidelines||Jaipur: In order to ensure passengers visiting railway station abide by Covid-19 guidelines, the Jaipur division of North Western Railway has constituted special teams of ticket collectors and RPF jawans.Since the resuming of services of special trains, authorities have been working to ensure passengers follow the guidelines.Authorities stated that passengers visiting railway stations are not allowed to enter without mask. “Even if a passenger has reserved ticket and is not wearing mask, he will not be allowed to enter and travel further. Many passengers who were not wearing masks or had fever were not allowed to enter,” an officer added.Ticket collectors and RPF jawans are working round-the-clock in three shifts to ensure people abide rules including wearing masks, keeping social distancing and checking the temperatures of the visiting passengers.“Since we resumed the services, a dedicated team is into checking the entry and exit of every passenger visiting Jaipur railway station to see if they are wearing masks and following guidelines,” said a senior officer of Jaipur division of NWR on Tuesday.However, officials stated that if a passenger who is positive and is hiding that information and endangering life of others, there is a provision of five years of imprisonment or penaltyAt the railway station, sanitisation is being done at regular intervals and at the waiting rooms passengers are not allowed to sit side by side. “We have also made posters and banners to spread awareness on wearing of masks and on other protocols,” said an officer.Authorities stated that as the number of trains have been increased, so does passengers, thus following guidelines is necessary. “So far, we have penalised over 100 people for spitting,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-division-constitutes-teams-to-implement-guidelines/articleshow/79650443.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra to get freezers, coolers by December-end||PUNE: The Centre will give the state six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers by the end of the month to fill gaps in the cold chain network, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. “The coolers can store vaccine vials in temperatures between 2 and 8°C. The walk-in freezers can reach as low as -25°C,” Tope said, while adding that the request for the equipment to the Centre was made a month ago. The coolers will be dispatched to Kolhapur, Thane, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Latur and Akola while the freezers will used in Pune and Nashik. Tope said 676 ice-lined refrigerators and 150 deep freezers will also be provided by the Centre. The state currently has 4,000 units of each. The Centre has also asked states to focus on AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) surveillance. Tope said, “I have directed district immunisation officials to appoint nodal officers for AEFI reporting.” The officers will conduct a one-hour course with doctors to train them on recording vaccination histories among those reporting to hospitals. Medical officers will record “minor, serious, and severe” adverse events in an “AEFI register”, which will be reviewed by a nodal officer weekly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-get-freezers-coolers-by-dec-end/articleshow/79651666.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra to get freezers, coolers by December-end||PUNE: The Centre will give the state six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers by the end of the month to fill gaps in the cold chain network, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. “The coolers can store vaccine vials in temperatures between 2 and 8°C. The walk-in freezers can reach as low as -25°C,” Tope said, while adding that the request for the equipment to the Centre was made a month ago. The coolers will be dispatched to Kolhapur, Thane, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Latur and Akola while the freezers will used in Pune and Nashik. Tope said 676 ice-lined refrigerators and 150 deep freezers will also be provided by the Centre. The state currently has 4,000 units of each. The Centre has also asked states to focus on AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) surveillance. Tope said, “I have directed district immunisation officials to appoint nodal officers for AEFI reporting.” The officers will conduct a one-hour course with doctors to train them on recording vaccination histories among those reporting to hospitals. Medical officers will record “minor, serious, and severe” adverse events in an “AEFI register”, which will be reviewed by a nodal officer weekly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-to-get-freezers-coolers-by-dec-end/articleshow/79660532.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra to get freezers, coolers by December-end||PUNE: The Centre will give the state six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers by the end of the month to fill gaps in the cold chain network, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. “The coolers can store vaccine vials in temperatures between 2 and 8°C. The walk-in freezers can reach as low as -25°C,” Tope said, while adding that the request for the equipment to the Centre was made a month ago. The coolers will be dispatched to Kolhapur, Thane, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Latur and Akola while the freezers will used in Pune and Nashik. Tope said 676 ice-lined refrigerators and 150 deep freezers will also be provided by the Centre. The state currently has 4,000 units of each. The Centre has also asked states to focus on AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) surveillance. Tope said, “I have directed district immunisation officials to appoint nodal officers for AEFI reporting.” The officers will conduct a one-hour course with doctors to train them on recording vaccination histories among those reporting to hospitals. Medical officers will record “minor, serious, and severe” adverse events in an “AEFI register”, which will be reviewed by a nodal officer weekly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-to-get-freezers-coolers-by-dec-end/articleshow/79660530.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Goa||#TimesUp: Click a selfie with a watch to protest infrastructure projects in Mollem||PANAJI: The Mollem Memory Project, an Instagram page dedicated to raise awareness about the Mollem issue has announced a selfie challenge wherein protesters can participate in the campaign digitally. They have invited social media users from across the globe to upload their selfies with a watch with the hashtag #TimesUp and #RiseAsOneGoa The Instagram page also urged the participants to tag their local MLAs in their posts who have their own page on the social media platform. This campaign has been launched in an effort to remind the state government and the forest department to respond to their demands regarding the three infrastructure projects in Mollem. On December 5, the youth placed a set of demands to the government. The demands were to revoke clearances granted in the Mollem area, refuse any work orders to fell more trees at Mollem, and squash forest clearances granted for the Mapusa-Xeldem transmission line. On December 7, the youth of the state marched from the Panaji church square to the forest department’s head office at Altinho. They danced and sang to show their dissent following which the letter submitted to the department was read out. While on Wednesday, December 9, some of the protesters confronted the principal chief conservator of forests at his office in Altinho demanding an answer for the clearances given for the cutting of trees during the lockdown. They demanded that the forest department take responsibility for the issue and reach out to the MoEFCC to revoke the projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/timesup-click-a-selfie-with-a-watch-to-protest-infra-projects-in-mollem/articleshow/79651689.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Mahouts to get relief from CM fund||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to provide grant to the mahouts of Hathigoan whose livelihoods have been seriously affected due to pandemic. After the proposal was forwarded by the forest department, approval to provide Rs 4.2 crore aid to 95 elephant owners has been given by the CM. The allotment will be made to Hathi Kalyan Sanstha for providing financial assistance to mahouts and their families. Earlier, TOI in its report, ‘Debt-ridden Jaipur mahouts demand to resume jumbo ride at Amber’ highlighted the plight of mahouts and elephants in absence of employment. The pandemic for nearly nine months has affected the earnings of the mahouts at Haathi Gaon in Jaipur. After the rides were closed for nearly eight months, elephants were forced to rest in the stands. Nearly 10,000 family members are waiting with bated breath for normalcy to return. The tourism at Amber Fort was re-started on June 2, 2020. But elephant rides were restricted till November 23. A mahout said, “It will be a breather for the owners. The move is welcome. The forest department sent a proposal calculating Rs 2,600 per day on an elephant. The remuneration between March 17 and December 31 will be made to the mahouts.” In Jaipur, during the tourist season, elephant owners earn around Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000 per day from tourists who visit Haathi Gaon. The abrupt shutdown of elephant village had affected the lives of these captive animals and their caretakers whose main job is to serve thousands of domestic and foreign tourists. Many were facing immense difficulty in paying school fees of children and meet day-to-day expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mahouts-to-get-relief-from-cm-fund/articleshow/79650450.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||Monuments located in Pune district stay closed to public||PUNE: The monuments in Pune, including the iconic Shaniwarwada and Aga Khan Palace, are still awaiting approval to reopen from the district authorities though those of historic significance in Aurangabad, Raigad and Sindhudurg have received permission to reopen after almost eight months of being closed to visitors. When TOI spoke to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), an official said a letter had been sent to the Pune district collector’s office to issue an order allowing the reopening of ASI monuments in Pune district, as was done across several other districts in the state and India. The ASI in a letter to the Pune district administration wrote, “...This is to inform you that the Director General, ASI, has issued an order to open historical monuments across the country under Mission Begin Again, subject to compliance of SOP issued time to time by the government of Maharashtra... ASI has no objection to opening of monuments and is awaiting your order.” The letter further pointed out that the district administrations in other districts, like Raigad, Sindhudurg and Aurangabad, have already issued orders for opening monuments and sites under their jurisdiction. “...Kindly issue a formal letter to open monuments, sites in Pune district,” the letter states. Recently, the Aurangabad district collector had granted conditional consent for the reopening of Ajanta and Ellora Caves, Bibi-ka-Maqbara and Panchakki. When contacted, a senior official from the district administration said, “The ASI monuments in Pune are managed by and are under the control of ASI headquarters in New Delhi. The district administration had not issued a separate order on closing them during the initial phase of the pandemic. However, we have asked the ASI to submit a formal proposal, with all relevant documents and standard operating procedures (SOP) in this regard. We would examine the documents and take a call on this matter soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/monuments-located-in-pune-district-stay-closed-to-public/articleshow/79651674.cms||Neha Madaan
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra to get freezers, coolers by December-end||PUNE: The Centre will give the state six walk-in coolers and two walk-in freezers by the end of the month to fill gaps in the cold chain network, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. “The coolers can store vaccine vials in temperatures between 2 and 8°C. The walk-in freezers can reach as low as -25°C,” Tope said, while adding that the request for the equipment to the Centre was made a month ago. The coolers will be dispatched to Kolhapur, Thane, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Latur and Akola while the freezers will used in Pune and Nashik. Tope said 676 ice-lined refrigerators and 150 deep freezers will also be provided by the Centre. The state currently has 4,000 units of each. The Centre has also asked states to focus on AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) surveillance. Tope said, “I have directed district immunisation officials to appoint nodal officers for AEFI reporting.” The officers will conduct a one-hour course with doctors to train them on recording vaccination histories among those reporting to hospitals. Medical officers will record “minor, serious, and severe” adverse events in an “AEFI register”, which will be reviewed by a nodal officer weekly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-to-get-freezers-coolers-by-dec-end/articleshow/79660527.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Salem||Spinning mill in Pallipalayam blamed for sewage water stagnation||NAMAKKAL: Residents of Triveni Nagar at Veppadai in Pallipalayam taluk have urged the district administration to address the issue of sewage water stagnation in their locality. Triveni Nagar houses more than 1000 families. Talking to TOI, M T Govindaraj, a resident, blamed a private spinning mill for the situation. “The mill management has encroached upon the sewage water pathway. As a result, it’s stagnating in the drainage.” K Hemalatha, another resident, said the stagnant sewage water, the smell of which they can’t stand by, has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The residents had approached the spinning mill management to sort out the issue. “But there is no response from their end,” C Balu, another resident, said. The residents have warned of staging a sit-in in front of the spinning mill shortly. “We will wait for another few days. We will start indefinite protest against the spinning mill management if our demands are not met,” Balu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/spinning-mill-blamed-for-sewage-water-stagnation/articleshow/79650441.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||UPES insisting on taking exams via app that has technical glitches, complain students||DEHRADUN: Students pursuing courses like BTech and law from University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES) have complained of technical glitches in the app — “Code Tantra” — on which their exams will be held in the wake of coronavirus. Many students, especially the ones who are residing in non-urban areas, have alleged that they will not be able to appear for the examinations as the varsity has clarified that exams will be held only on the specific app. They further alleged that students have been told that they won’t be able to re-appear in the exam if there is a technical lag. “We have requested the varsity authorities to consider lags as there can be internet connectivity issues and even the app may not be working properly but haven’t got a response,” said a student from BTech final year. Another student said that the platform has an interface that doesn't allow the user to exit the screen until the duration of the exam is over and has requirements like Webcam, microphone, and continuous internet connectivity. Responding to the complaints, Arun Dhand, senior director public affairs of the university, said that 90% of the students have already appeared in eight mock tests which were conducted before the final exams that will start from December 14. “The app we have introduced is being used as per the guidelines of UGC. No student who has taken the mock test has faced any problems as our technical staff solves issues immediately. The complaints are being made by those who neither appeared in online class nor appeared for the mock tests,” said Dhand. He added that the option for re-test/supplementary tests is always available for students who are able to prove that they got logged out due to technical error and that students can also call their HODs if they face any issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/upes-insisting-on-taking-exams-via-app-that-has-technical-glitches-complain-students/articleshow/79649225.cms||Ishita Mishra
December 10, 2020||Patna||RJD’s ‘reluctance’ delays formation of House panels||PATNA: The formation of various committees of the 17th state assembly has been delayed as the RJD has not yet submitted the list of MLAs it wants to be designated as chairpersons of the panels, sources said on Tuesday. State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday held a meeting with senior officials of the assembly secretariat to review the proposed names for chairpersons submitted by various parties as the notifications for the posts have to be issued in the next two days. The RJD has not yet submitted the list of its MLAs for the post of chairpersons. All other parties have submitted the names of their choice. In the present House, there are around 12 national and state-level parties – BJP, JD(U), RJD, Congress, CPI(ML), CPI, CPM, HAM(S), VIP, AIMIM, LJP and BSP. Besides, there are 23 House committees whose chairpersons have to be notified by the Speaker. Sources said the state assembly secretariat has also sent reminders to the RJD for sending the names of the MLAs for their designation as chairpersons of the committees. Since the leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is from RJD, the largest opposition party in the state, it is necessary for him to take personal interest in the matter and send the names to the state assembly secretariat. The delay in issuance of notification for the designation of chairpersons of House committees has also delayed the rolling in of the financial aspects (salary, other benefits) of the newly-elected MLAs, it is learned. RJD leader Alok Mehta, however, said the party had already sent the names of the MLAs for consideration for the post of chairpersons of House committees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjds-reluctance-delays-formation-of-house-panels/articleshow/79649219.cms||Abhay Singh
December 10, 2020||Goa||Cujira teacher tests positive, school shuts for sanitisation||PANAJI: A day after a teacher from a school in Usgao was reported to have tested positive for Covid-19, a male teacher of a school within the Cujira school complex, on the outskirts of Panaji, also tested positive on Wednesday. This made it the second such case after physical classes for students of Classes X and XII began in Goa from November 21. The Cujira school will be shut till Thursday to carry out sanitisation of the premises. School authorities said physical classes for students will resume only from December 14. Till that time, classes will continue online. “The teacher had informed us that there are many Covid cases in the vicinity of his home. Therefore, we had advised him to get himself tested. As December 8 was a discretionary holiday due to the Panaji church feast, we also advised him to not report to school that day. The teacher later informed us that he had tested positive,” a school official said. The school’s authorities said they have discussed the situation with the director of education and have kept officials informed. “We have 250 students studying in Class X, but only around 82 were reporting for physical classes as most parents are not ready to send students for physical classes. Practical classes as well as some physical classes were being conducted. Though the teacher who tested positive was teaching Class X students, lectures for Class XII students too will resume only on December 14 as the entire school premises has to be sanitised,” the school official said. From Class XII, only around 30 students were reporting for physical classes as online classes of the institute continue and are running smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cujira-teacher-tests-positive-school-shuts-for-sanitisation/articleshow/79651690.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka fall for eighth straight week||BENGALURU: Fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka fell for the eighth week in a row, raising hopes of the virus being under control even as experts recommended continued caution anticipating a second wave. Analysis of data for 10 weeks — from September 29 and December 7 — shows that barring the October 6-12 week, new cases have been dropping in the 20%-33% range. The December first week cases are a 20-week low. With 9,107 cases from December 1 to 7, daily fresh cases’ average growth rate has been 0.1% this month. At 10,342, cases in the last week of November were the lowest in five months with only the first week of July comparable with 11,573 cases. Dr V Ravi, member, Covid-19 technical advisory panel, said: “This indicates people have been responsible and we could be approaching herd immunity. However, we cannot be complacent.” State’s overall case fatality rate better than national averageAs of December 8, Karnataka’s overall confirmed cases per million stood at 13,606 compared to 7,304 nationally. The state’s overall case fatality rate, at 1.3%, is better than the national average. Karnataka’s recovery rate stands at 96%, with more than 25,000 patients still under treatment. The daily average (of new cases) in December is 1,300 — a first in five months; the same stood at 1,477 in the last week of November. In November, the state government was looking at a slew of restrictions, including curbing New Year celebrations, based on recommendations from the technical committee, which deliberated strategies to tackle the anticipated second wave. One committee member said the dip in fresh cases is a relief because the decline has been consistent. He said the state may have to restrategise its testing to cover more districts that showed low exposure in the previous serological survey. “The weekly data may indicate we could be approaching herd immunity. But people must continue to wear masks and maintain social distance. The government must continue testing more than a lakh samples daily. We have recommended that districts other than Bengaluru test more,” Ravi said. A clear indication of herd immunity will emerge only after another sero-survey, which may happen in January subject to government’s approval, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/states-overall-case-fatality-rate-better-than-national-avg/articleshow/79653442.cms||Chethan Kumar
December 10, 2020||Pune||One dead, 3 injured as car hits divider||Pune: A 72-year-old man died and three others were injured after the driver of their car lost control over the vehicle and crashed into a divider near Hindustan Church on Pune-Solapur Road on Monday night. Police identified the deceased as Pandurang Jairam Kulkarni from Talegaon Dabhade. The injured included the victim’s son, Sanjay Kulkarni (47), who was driving the car, his wife, Harshada, and his brother’s wife, Manisha. Sub-inspector Bolenath Ahiwale from the Wanowrie police on Wednesday said, “The Kulkarni family had visited Solapur for completing necessary formalities relating to Pandurang’s pension. They were on their way to Pune when Sanjay, who was driving the car at high speed, lost control over the vehicle and crashed into the road divider.” The officer said, “The impact of the accident was such that the vehicle got struck on the divider and Pandurang, who was sitting next to Sanjay. Pandurang sustained severe injuries on his head. Sanjay and two women sitting in the rear escaped with minor injuries.” The injured were rushed to a private hospital where Pandurang succumbed to head injuries while undergoing treatment around 1.20am on Thursday, the officer said, adding that Sanjay and two women were discharged from the hospital after treatment. The statements of the injured could not be recorded as they were in a state of shock. “We have booked the driver for causing the victim’s death due to negligence under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Motor Vehicles Act on the basis of on an FIR filed by constable Deepak Bhoir. We have issued notice to the driver asking him to co-operate with police investigation,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-dead-3-injured-as-car-hits-divider/articleshow/79651686.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Erode||Erode: Private hospital replants woman’s scalp torn in accident||ERODE: A private hospital has successfully replanted a 27-year-old woman’s scalp, which was ripped off after her hair got trapped in an aluminium roof sheet making machine a week ago, after a surgery that lasted for 10 hours. Kavitha, wife of V Vijay, 30, of North Street in Gobichettipalayam town, was taken to the Abi S K Hospital in the locality after the incident that took place at their unit last Friday. A 10-member team lead by Dr S Kumaresan examined her. “We then decided to carry out microvascular plastic surgery on Kavitha to replant the scalp.” The team carried out the surgery successfully the same day. The doctor said the surgery wounds would heal in a couple of weeks. The hair, he said, has started growing now itself. “She would get her normal hair growth in a few months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/pvt-hosp-replants-womans-scalp-torn-in-accident/articleshow/79650554.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||PMC halts demolition of Vetal Tekdi road after court orders status quo||Pune: The demolition of the kuchha road on Vetal Tekdi by the Pune Municipal Corporation came to a halt for the second time on Wednesday after the civil court in Pune issued an interim status quo order.The Maharashtra Academy of Engineering and Educational Research (MAEER), which runs the Maharashtra Institute of Technology in Pune that was building the road, filed a regular civil suit against the civic body on December 7 under the Specific Relief Act, section 39.Manjusha Idhate, chief law officer for the PMC, told TOI, “The court has given an interim status quo order and the next hearing is on December 15 when we (PMC) will be producing a written statement and say in this regard. We would try to get the interim status quo lifted during the next hearing by presenting our side before the court. The order was on further action by PMC in the ongoing tekdi issue. Status quo is granted till filing of say /written statement by the PMC.” The official website of district courts had not uploaded the order till the time of filing this report. Another PMC official said, “We have not received a copy but the order came on Tuesday. We received a notice on Monday about the hearing. We are in the process of filing our say and affidavit.”Mangesh Karad, executive director and secretary of MAEER’S MIT Group Pune, said, “The petition mentioned our genuine concerns and the need for an approach road on part of the “MIT tekdi” slope. There have been fires on the hill and the road will give access to the fire brigade. We also want to undertake plantation which needs an access road. Can’t we lay “murum” (a type of soil) on our own land?”He said they were not building any road or undertaking construction. “But, the residents have blown the issue out of proportion. They are not allowing us to put up solar panels at MIT citing temperature rise in their homes. We want our concerns addressed,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-halts-demolition-of-vetal-tekdi-road-after-court-orders-status-quo/articleshow/79651680.cms||Neha Madaan
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Five marriage gardens fined for flouting Covid norms||Jaipur: Acting on the direction of Murlipura Zone deputy commissioner Santosh Kumar Goyal, revenue officer of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Tina Sharma fined five marriage gardens for flouting Covid-19 guidelines.Balaji Marriage Garden, Narayana Vatika and Ram Paradise marriage venues were fined Rs 5,000 each for not following the Covid guidelines. Similarly, the operator of the Green Palm Marriage Garden, seized in Hawa Mahal Amer Zone on Tuesday, paid a fine of Rs 30,000. After this, the marriage garden was opened.Acting under the leadership of revenue officer Parul Soni in Mansarovar zone, the team recovered a fine of Rs 10,000 from two marriage gardens.Meanwhile, the vigilance wing of the Jaipur Municipal Corporation Heritage has adopted a unique method to make people aware of corona infections. On the instructions of deputy commissioner of vigilance Navneet Bhardwaj went to the wedding ceremony and gave a congratulatory letter i.e. an informative letter to the bride and groom side and to the wedding venue operator.In the letter, the bride and groom have been congratulated for their marriage and it has been expected from them that they should not invite more than 100 people, get masks from everyone, take care of the hygiene of the wedding venue, follow the social distancing and get the programme video-graphed.In the letter to the operator, he has also been written to ensure compliance of all these provisions and to send the information of the event to the concerned zone office. It is written in both the letters that you follow the Covid guidelines, otherwise legal proceedings will be taken against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-marriage-gardens-fined-for-flouting-covid-norms/articleshow/79650468.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand government reshuffles portfolios of 12 IPS officers||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday announced the reshuffle of 12 IPS officers. Additional Director General (ADG) PVK Prasad, who is currently holding the post of ADG CB-CID, has been given additional charge of ADG police headquarters. Senior IPS officer and IG Intelligence AP Anshuman was given the additional charge of IG law and order, IG STF, and IG cyber crimes. Similarly, Amit Sinha has been given additional charge of IG communications. IG Sanjay Gunjyal has been relieved of his charge as IG SDRF and IG PAC. He will continue to remain IG Kumbh Mela 2021. IPS officer Puran Singh Rawat has been made IG (training). The charge of IG CB-CID was taken from him. Also, DIG Ridhim Agarwal has been given the additional charge of DIG P&M while Director Police Training Centre (PTC) Narendra Nagar DIG Mukhtar Mohsin has been given the additional charge of DIG Fire Service. IPS officer Nilesh Bharne, who recently came back from deputation, has been made DIG personnel and DIG law and order. Lastly, Ajay Singh, SP Personnel, has been made SP STF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-reshuffles-portfolios-of-12-ips-officers/articleshow/79649233.cms||Gaurav Talwar
December 10, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Puppeteer carries on traditional craft amid challenges||CHENNAI: Larger than life, dramatic and nearly two-centuries-old, the leather puppets of K S Khande Ramadas of Ram, Sita and Lakshman serve as a link to a form of entertainment that is performed and watched by only a few people today. But for the 55-year-old, these puppets are the source of energy for his entire family. A fourth-generation artist, Ramadas has more than 500 such puppets in his collection. However, like many folk artists, he finds his survival is difficult. To keep tradition alive, he travels around the country with his leather puppets, narrating stories from epics like Ramayana and Mahabharata. "I still use big puppets (six-foot-high) so that they are more communicative. My idea is to keep this art form alive," says Ramadas, who will be performing at DakshinaChitra on December 12, his first performance in eight months. "Like many folk artists, we had a tough time due to Covid. It was in March I last performed. I hope things will be better," he said. Even though Ramadas was born into a family of puppeteers in Nimmalakunda in Anantapuramu district of Andhra Pradesh, lack of sponsorship had made his job difficult over the years. "We were getting a lot of programmes until 10 years ago. It reduced drastically during the past five years. Both the state and Union governments are supporting us, but it is difficult for us to survive without an audience," said Ramadas, who has won the DakshinaChitra Virudhu, an annual award instituted by the Madras Craft Foundation and the Friends of DakshinaChitra in 2004 to honour performing folk artists and groups. Ramadas first began playing with the puppets when he was 12-year-old. "I remember travelling to Australia when I was barely 13. It was a memorable trip and I realised how foreigners give importance to our folk arts," said Ramadas, who has won the Andhra Pradesh state award and the Ajay Shankar award from New Delhi for his art form. Ramadas has been running Kanakadurga Thollubomala Panivayala Samshema Sangam along with other members in the family to create awareness about his art. To add to the family income, he started making decorative puppets, lamp shades and wall paintings. "We have been selling decorative items to make ends meet," he said. At DakshinaChitra, Ramadas and his troupe will be performing Sundara Kanda from the Ramayana. "We can narrate the story in two days. Earlier, the show would begin at 9pm, and continue till the morning. But today people don’t sit for such a long time. So we need to compress the whole episode into two hours. I have designed the show without losing its significance," he said. The journey is long and tiring, but Ramadas doesn’t feel the heat as he believes that his ancestors are still with him in the form of gods in the age-old leather puppets that he preserves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/puppeteer-carries-on-traditional-craft-amid-challenges/articleshow/79653101.cms||M T Saju
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||RU promotion certificates draw flak||Jaipur: After the decision of promoting students in higher educational institutes to next year, the Rajasthan University has decided to write it on the certificates of students as well.The first and second year students are being promoted by the government and instead of marksheets, a promotion certificate will be given to them where it will be written that students have been promoted due to the ongoing pandemic. This is, however, being criticized by students stating that it will impact their future.Vice-chancellor Rajeev Jain said the decision was taken after the academic council approved it. “We have decided that students will get certificate of promotion due to Covid, although no marksheet will be issued,” said Jain.Before complete lockdown was declared by the government, over half of the examinations of first and second year were finished. With the lockdown, all the examinations were postponed and later cancelled.The university administration said that when these students will come in third year, the total average of marks obtained in all three years will be given and there will be no problem in their final result.Meanwhile, the students’ unions in the university have objected to it. ABVP state secretary Hushyaar Meena said, “Putting it on the certificate that students were promoted will have severe impact on their career. Even if in final year students will get average marks still, getting it on their certificate will not be good.”Similar views were expressed by NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati, who said they will meet the administration to take the issue further. However, the university administration said that across the country students are promoted due to pandemic so it will be an understandable issue in the job market as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-promotion-certificates-draw-flak/articleshow/79650521.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||Galleries still remaining shut is baffling, say owners & artists||Pune: Art galleries have been kept closed in the city despite restaurants, theatres and performance spaces opening up in the city, and the move has drawn ire from owners as well as artists. The fact that art galleries remaining closed while theatre spaces have opened up is affecting artists, especially in smaller towns and cities across the state. For artists from these areas, Pune is among the main markets to sell their works or attract new clients and patrons. They added that it would also be easier to maintain social distancing norms at art galleries, unlike anywhere else, because they generally receive less footfall than other cultural spaces. “There are not too many art galleries outside Pune and Mumbai, where artists from cities like Satara, Kolhapur, or Sangli can exhibit their works of art such as paintings and sculptures. Art exhibitions are perhaps the only means of truly exhibiting the wonderful talent that exists in these smaller towns and cities. Yet, somehow, art galleries have been kept closed for more than eight months now,” said Prashant Bholagir, who owns Ray Art Gallery on Fergusson College Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/galleries-still-remaining-shut-is-baffling-say-owners-artists/articleshow/79651678.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Parents begin fast over school fee||Jaipur: Sanyukt Abhibhavak Sangh, the association of parents of students studying in private schools, started fast against the government for not giving any relief in the school fees from Wednesday onwards.In the fast, parents stopped eating from 11am to 6pm. This strike will continue till December 13 and on December 14, association has decided to do complete hunger strike for a day. On the first day, president of the association Arvind Aggarwal, general secretary Sanjay Goyal, treasurer Sarvesh Mishra, women in-charge Daulat Sharma and Amrita Saxena started the fast.Spokesperson Abhishek Jain Bittu said that for the last eight months, parents have been constantly urging the school and government representatives for relief, giving information about contempt of court. “Neither the school administration is ready to understand the pain of the parents nor the state government is in a bind to give relief to the parents. Hence, we have decided to take the matter into our own hands,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/parents-begin-fast-over-school-fee/articleshow/79650499.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||‘77% of most vulnerable tribes forced to eat less now’||Close to 56% of those who didn’t have any income in April and May still don’t. And what that has directly hit is their ability to afford food. About 77% from particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs) have cut down on food compared to the period before lockdown, a survey by the non-profit Right to Food Campaign (RTF), ‘Hunger Watch’, released on Wednesday, said. “For many of them, the source of income was forest collection of bamboo or betel leaves. They sell those and buy food. They don’t have agricultural land. For these three to four months, they were collecting produce but couldn’t sell them. There were no markets, so they had no income,” Dipa Sinha, convener of RTF and assistant professor at Ambedkar University in Delhi, told TOI. The in-person survey of 4,000 people from marginalised communities in 11 states over September and October found that the quantity of food consumption had also gone down for 74% of the Dalits surveyed, 54% of Adivasis and 69% of OBCs. How easy it was to access food appears to be associated with identity — one in four from both Dalit and Muslim communities said they faced discrimination while accessing food in lockdown. For those in the ‘general’ category, it was one in 10. Of those who said they never had to go to bed hungry before lockdown, one in seven said they now had to. And 45% said they had to borrow money for food. Of those in the survey who did consume eggs and meats before lockdown, 91% said they could no longer afford to do so. About 73% said they had reduced green vegetables in their diet and 64% said they had to cut down on dal. This ties in with what they have been surviving on — government foodgrains. About 75% of those surveyed did have ration cards and 69% received free additional food grains under PDS every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/77-of-most-vulnerable-tribes-forced-to-eat-less-now/articleshow/79653463.cms||Chandrima Banerjee
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ACB official held for taking Rs 80,000 bribe||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested one of its own officials in Sawai Madhopur while accepting a bribe of Rs 80,000 as monthly fee. The additional SP ranked officer was nabbed after the ACB received complaint that he was accepting bribe for various other departments. The accused has identified as Bhairulal Meena who was posted in the ACB unit in Sawai Madhopur. “We had received multiple complaints that the officer was accepting bribe while being in his office through various other government departments. For past few months we had been working on the case and on Wednesday we found that he was going to receive another payment following which a team from Jaipur was sent to Sawai Madhopur to catch the official red handed,” said an official. For last couple of months ACB had been constantly receiving complaints about Meena that he would charge a monthly fee from various departments and on Wednesday, he was caught while accepting a bribe from the district transport officer. Cops will further search his office as well as residences to find more details about the disproportionate income. A case of corruption has been lodged against him and further investigation is on. Additionally, ACB also arrested a lineman in Alwar while accepting a bribe of Rs 28,000. Sunil Kumar was alleged to have been demanding a bribe for laying down the electricity lines in the fields for the farmers. He was apparently asking the bribe to lay down the line for more volatge than was permissible for the area. Apart from this, ACB arrested a forest guard in Tonk for accepting a bribe of Rs 35,000. The guard along with her husband were arrested and are being questioned. On Anti-Corruption Day dated December 9, the bureau made three successful arrests including one of their own to mark the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-official-held-for-taking-rs-80k-bribe/articleshow/79650559.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Covid vaccine will be available in Dec end or Jan 1st week: Thakare||Nagpur: Collector Ravindra Thakare has said Covid vaccine will be made available in December end or first week of January, as per a statement issued by the district information office (DIO) on Tuesday. “Doctors, nurses and high-risk patients will be vaccinated on priority wise. Each and every ‘Corona yoddha’ will be administered vaccine,” said the DIO release quoting Thakare. The statement comes in the backdrop of three companies filing applications with the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use authorization of their vaccine candidates. Thakare, also chairman of disaster management authority, Nagpur district, on Tuesday held a meeting of district task force at Bachat Bhavan to review preparations for Covid-19 vaccination programme. The DIO has issued a press release regarding the meeting. Couple of officials who were present in the meeting confirmed that Thakare made the statement. Thakare, an IAS officer, has reportedly urged the health department to put in place proper planning for the vaccine roll-out. The DIO release clearly mentions Thakare speaking about availability of the vaccine in December end or first week of January, and not about “chances” or “possibilities”. CEO of zilla parishad Yogesh Kumbhejkar, additional collector Shrikant Phadke, resident deputy collector Ravindra Khajanchi, district health officer Dr Dipak Selokar, officiating district civil surgeon Dr Dipak Thete, NMC additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, Ashwini Nagar from United Nation Development Programme, Dr Mohammed Sajid from WHO, and IMA president Dr Archana Kothari were present at the meeting. Thakare did not respond to TOI’s call and message. Guardian minister Nitin Raut refused to comment on Thakare’s statement. Officials in collector’s office denied receiving any letter from Central or state governments indicating time frame for making the vaccine available. The officials of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) too have not received any such communication from Centre or state. “NMC received a letter from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) through state government in October directing to prepare list of health care workers for administering vaccine as first priority. Since then, no letter or guidelines have been received related to vaccine,” they said. According to NMC officials, they are waiting for guidelines regarding storage facilities for the vaccine. “We could not start preparing for storage of vaccines due to lack of guidelines or further orders. We have only identified existing storage capacities which are regularly used for storing vaccines of pulse polio,” said the officials. The NMC is preparing database of health care workers who would be administered Covid vaccine. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B had on October 26 written to all government and private hospitals to submit list of doctors, nurses and other staff with documents on or before October 28. “We have prepared a list of 13,000 health care staff as of now. All government and NMC-run hospitals and dispensaries have submitted the list. But only 209 of 650 private hospitals have submitted the list,” said the officials. The civic chief on Wednesday held a meeting with NMC officials and doctors to review preparations for vaccine. He said vaccine is set to come soon but avoided mentioning any time frame. He urged private hospitals to submit list of health care workers as soon as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-vaccine-will-be-available-in-dec-end-or-jan-1st-week-thakare/articleshow/79650634.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Collectors, Div commissioners need to take CS’ permission for leaves||Jaipur: The collectors and divisional commissioners should not leave their jurisdiction for any meeting/seminar or take casual leave without obtaining prior approval of the chief secretary (Niranjan Arya), stated a circular issued by department of personnel (DOP) on Wednesday.The order issued by DOP secretary Hemant Gera further stated, “While applying for leave/permission to leave the headquarters, every ofﬁcer/employee should intimate the contact address (including telephone number, if any) so that he could be contacted in case of any emergency.”“For collectors taking casual leave up to three days, leave and permission to leave headquarters can be granted by the divisional commissioners as per order dated September 05, 2007. However, intimation must be given to the ofﬁce of chief secretary,” it added.It further stated, “All additional chief secretaries/principal secretaries/secretaries should ensure that before giving any direction to collectors/divisional commissioners to participate in any meeting/seminar/workshop etc. outside their jurisdiction, chief secretary’s prior approval has to be obtained and this fact should be mentioned in the communication addressed to divisional commissioners/collectors.”In addition, ACS/principal secretaries/secretaries have been urged to encourage meetings through video conferencing. “It will also help avoid further delay in matters. Divisional commissioners or collectors may be called for departmental meetings in Jaipur or to other locations outside their respective jurisdictions only in absolutely necessary circumstances,” the order stated.BoxRSSB seeks probe into paper leakJaipur: The Rajasthan Staff Selection Board on Wednesday wrote to Sanganer police to investigate and take legal action against alleged leaking of question papers pertaining to junior engineer civil recruitment examination, which was conducted on December 6. It was brought to the notice of RSSB secretary Mukut B Jangid by some applicants on Wednesday (December 9).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collectors-div-commissioners-need-to-take-cs-permission-for-leaves/articleshow/79650604.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Civil aviation director removed||Jaipur: Civil aviation director Captain Kesari Singh had to pay with his job for the fault of the officer at the civil department.The state government on Thursday removed director of civil aviation and chief pilot Singh from the post. He was working on contract basis since 2010.The reason for the removal of the officer is said to be due to the failure of the department to follow the due process for the renewal of the multi engine helicopter contract in the service of VIPs.Recently, the state government had transferred secretary GAD Pritam B Yashwant to the department of enquires.But Singh had to pay for the fault of the officer with his job despite he had reminded the officer at GAD and civil aviation of the due process and put up the file on time.According to the information accessed by TOI shows Singh had informed the department on July 2 that the contract for the multi-engine chopper is expiring on August 12 this year and appropriate steps be initiated for the renewal of the same.He had drawn the attention of the officer that the purchasing committee meeting held on June 23 had decided to obtain the consent of the operator M/s Air Charter Service to extend the contract for the same terms and conditions and place it before the committee within three days.The contract could be renewed for three months or for one year as per Rajasthan Transparency in Public. Procurement Rules, 2013 after discussion with the finance department and get approval for the highest level. But the secretary renewed it for six months without getting clearance from the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civil-aviation-director-removed/articleshow/79650583.cms||Joychen Joseph
December 10, 2020||Pune||Safe with cash and valuables stolen from businessman’s flat in Pune||PUNE: Three masked men stole a safe containing cash and ornaments valued at Rs21.16 lakh from the residence of an electronics goods’ businessman at a housing society on Dhole-Patil Road between December 7 and 8. The businessman, Shantanu Ganeshrao Dhole-Patil (39), had engaged a private firm for pest control in his flat on Sunday. He and his family had gone to his elder sister’s residence at Talegaon Dabhade after the work was over. Dhole-Patil stated in his FIR, “We returned to the flat, on the second floor of Sindhu Datta Chamber, on Monday around 4pm. We opened its door and windows for dispelling the pesticide residue. We then locked the flat and drove back to my sister’s residence around 7.30pm.” The FIR read Dhole-Patil received a telephone call from his cousin around 8.30am on Tuesday, stating that his flat was burgled. The family then rushed to Pune and found that the burglars had ransacked two cupboards and fled with the safe containing gold and diamond jewellery, and silver coins worth Rs19.16 lakh, and Rs2 lakh. The businessman told TOI, “A CCTV camera in the building captured images of the three masked men wearing jackets and caps. We don’t suspect the involvement of any known person in the burglary. We are pursuing the case with the police for arresting the burglars and recovering the stolen valuables at the earliest.” When asked why the security guard was not on duty, Dhole-Patil said the building’s occupants had sent the elderly guard on leave because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/safe-with-cash-valuables-stolen-from-bizmans-flat/articleshow/79651682.cms||Asseem Shaikh
December 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Flyers of delayed flight crowd airline’s counters, social distance goes for a toss||PUNE: Social distancing norms went for a toss at the airport on Wednesday morning after around 100 stranded flyers booked in an IndiGo flight to Hyderabad crowded the airline’s counters seeking reason for its three-hour delay. The flyers claimed that the airline kept them in the dark about the flight’s delay. Its ground officers also allegedly failed to give reasonable replies to the passengers’ queries. Rajesh Raydas, one of the passengers booked in the IndiGo’s Hyderabad flight scheduled to depart at 10.30am, said, “Many angry passengers huddled in the waiting area on the first floor of the airport. When proper answers didn’t come from the airline or its ground staffers about the flight delay, many flyers went to the IndiGo’s counters seeking clarifications. There was no social distancing. It was scary.” Another Hyderabad-bound passenger of the same flight said had the airline clarified things, the flyers wouldn’t have lost their cool. “Whenever there is a sudden delay, airlines don’t want to provide information to the flyers. This makes them angry. No one likes waiting at the airport for hours in the Covid-19 times,” the passenger said. Raydas said an IndiGo flight to Ahmedabad, scheduled at 9.50am before his flight to Hyderabad, was delayed. He said some of the officials of the airline at the airport said another aircraft was on the way for the passengers booked in IndiGo's Hyderabad flight. “We couldn’t understand what it meant. We heard that the flight to Ahmedabad was delayed because of some reasons and the aircraft scheduled to fly to Hyderabad went to Ahmedabad,” Raydas said. A spokesperson of IndiGo told TOI, “The IndiGo flight 6E917, scheduled to operate from Pune to Ahmedabad was held up in Pune due to a suspected bird hit in the previous flight. The aircraft was stopped at Pune for detailed inspection. All passengers were accommodated on another aircraft to continue their onward journey to Ahmedabad.” Raydas said, “Our flight was scheduled to depart at 10.30am. But the boarding started only at 2pm. Many passengers got angry because of the delay and no one providing the right answers to their queries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-of-delayed-flight-crowd-airlines-counters-social-distance-goes-for-a-toss/articleshow/79651692.cms||Joy Sengupta
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Ponds in Sultanpet dry despite heavy rain||COIMBATORE: Farmers in Sultanpet block have petitioned the district administration and the rural development agency to look into the reasons behind ponds remaining dry in their area, despite receiving good rain. They said the groundwater level in the western part of Sultanpet was so low that borewells had to be dug a minimum of 1,000ft deep for water. In the absence of enough water for irrigation, farming activities have been hit in the area. Suresh Kumar, a farmer who owns 12 acres land at Bogampatti, said he had cultivated spinach only on two acres, because of dearth of water. “If there is not enough water, I’ll lose the crop.” The situation isn’t any different at north Sultanpet, where around 10 villages are hit. The most-affected villages are Selakarachal, Edayarpalayam, Pappampatti, Bogampatti, Edayarpalayam, Kallapalayam, Palladam and Pachapalayam. Another farmer, Raghupathi, said, “Each of these 10 villages have at least three large ponds each. They didn’t get filled even after the southwest monsoon showers. Besides the rainwater, these ponds only get the water that flows out from nearby land. They are not connected to any of the major waterbodies. As a result, the groundwater level remains so low, making irrigation difficult.” Sultanpet is a major vegetable growing belt in the district after Thondamuthur. Farmers in the region mainly cultivate tomatoes, beetroot, chilli, gourd vegetables, spinach, pudina and maize. “Vegetables like beetroot and spinach require reasonable amount of water. While the soil in the area is good, dry conditions even during monsoon season pose a risk,” Suresh said. The area gets drinking water from Athikadavu scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ponds-in-sultanpet-dry-despite-heavy-rain/articleshow/79650619.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man held for killing wife over domestic dispute||JAIPUR: The police have arrested a man for allegedly killing his wife after a domestic dispute in Mansarovar on December 1. A woman was murdered allegedly by her husband just over a week back following which he fled. Her body was found when their children, with the help of neighbours, broken into their locked room. Cops have arrested Kailashchand Sharma who was apparently hiding in Mansarovar itself. “While we have arrested the prime suspect, it appears that he killed her due to domestic dispute. Apparently he was just not happy with her but was also concerned that his wife was supporting his children when they were following the wrong paths,” said an official. The woman had an argument with her husband over finances due to which he strangled her. It appears that due to the lockdown, his earnings had taken a fall which had become a source of tension for the entire family. Another reason behind the crime appears to be that on the day of the incident, the accused’s children had also gotten into an argument with him and the official said, “It does not appear to be a case of pre-mediated crime but we are not leaving out any possibilities in the matter and will question his children as well who are currently in a state of shock,” claimed officials. After committing the crime, the accused the room in the house which had the woman’s dead body and once the children realised something was amiss, they called the neighbours broke open the door. Cops will also look into his mobile phone records to find if he spoke to anyone post murder and at present police is clueless as to the exact reason behind the killing. They will also look into his finances to get more details into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-killing-wife-over-domestic-dispute/articleshow/79650626.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Police not granting nod for opposition parties to hold events: DMK||COIMBATORE: The DMK on Wednesday said police were denying the party functionaries permission for meetings and protests, while the cadres of the ruling AIADMK were allowed to hold meetings without obtaining node from police.  N Karthik, DMK’s Coimbatore east urban district incharge, said, “For the past four and half years, the DMK and other opposition parties have been denied permission to hold protests in a democratic manner within the framework of constitution to fight for the rights of people, organize meetings or gather to greet a leader.” Pointing out that the junction near south taluk office was one of the places where the government permits people to organize peaceful protests, he said even there they were denied permission (to hold protests). On the other hand, he said, AIADMK cadres were allowed to congregate for protests and meetings at several places, disrupting traffic. While the protests were held without police permission, no action was taken against them. Rather, police protection was provided for those protests, he said. “Police also don’t allow us to stick posters. However, the city has seen posters that were provocative and intended to demean DMK leaders everywhere,” said Karthik, who is also Singanallur MLA . Referring to the series of programmes that the party MP M K Kanimozhi would attend in the city on Thursday, he said there were efforts to scuttle the events. A senior police officer denied all the charges and said permission was being granted to all political parties after giving due diligence on the law and order situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-not-granting-nod-for-oppn-parties-to-hold-events-dmk/articleshow/79650631.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Engg intake cut by about 8.5k, over 27k apply for 17k seats||Nagpur: Even as the much-awaited engineering admissions commenced from Wednesday, concerns are being raised about the declining number of engineering seats in Nagpur division comprising six districts. According to officials from Directorate of Technical Education (DTE), said this year there seems to be intense competition as over 27,000 students have applied for 17,136 seats in 44 colleges under Nagpur and Gondwana universities in the division. Five years ago, there were over 25,000 seats in around 60 engineering colleges of the division. These reduced by over 8,534 in five years — by 5,708 in last three years — to 17,136 this year, as per the statistics provided by the officials from DTE. Many of the colleges were closed in the last five years due to lack of response from aspirants. A couple of years back, two engineering colleges were opened in backward districts of Gadchiroli and one in Gondia, but they too shut operations for the same reasons. The officials attributed the trend to students turning their back to engineering courses for job-oriented ones. The massive scholarship scam, which was exposed by TOI on August 10, 2014, also led to closure of most of the colleges across Maharashtra, as they were fully dependent on the fees disbursed by the government for backward category students. Earlier, said officials, many students used to prefer colleges in Western Maharashtra, particularly in Mumbai and Pune, due to better job prospects. This year, however, the parents would be reluctant to send their wards to these cities, as they were hotspots of the deadly Covid-19 initially. Even those who aspired to take admissions into universities abroad would stay in the city. Of the 17,136 seats available, 10,373 would be allotted under the centralized admissions process (CAP) conducted by the State Common Entrance test (CET) Cell along with DTE. Remaining 3,427 seats are reserved for students from all India quota (AIQ) clearing joint entrance examination (JEE), while 3,336 would be allotted to minorities. According to the officials, it would be good news for a majority of private colleges facing huge vacancies since the last few years and on the verge of closure. They, however, cautioned that nothing can be guaranteed, as last year also 16,049 had registered for engineering courses, but only 10,874 confirmed admissions, leaving over 7,000 seats vacant. Last year, 18,240 seats were up for grabs in 47 colleges. # Engg seats and vacancies in 5 yrs Yr------———- 2015-16---------—-- 2016-17----------2017-18--------- 2018-19 ------- 2019-20 ----2020-21 Intake ------------- 25,670 ------------ 23,605 ------------ 22,266 -------- 23,948 -------- 18,240 -------- 17,136 Admitted --------- 14,739 ------------ 12,737 ------------ 12,249 ---------- 9,342 ———10,874 -------- NA* Vacancies --------- 10,931 ------------ 10,868 ------------ 10,017 ---------14,606 ------—- 7,366 -------- NA* (*Figures to be available after admissions next month) # District wise seats for 2020-21 District ----------------—— Colleges ------------ Candidates ---------- Seats Nagpur -------------------—— 33--------------------- 19,602 ---------------13,932 Bhandara + Gondia ------------ 2 --------------------- 1,277 ---------------- 504 Chanda + G’chiroli ------------ 4--------------------- 4,460 ---------------- 1,500 Wardha ------------------——- 5--------------------- 1,936 ---------------- 1,200 Total --------------------——- 44--------------------- 27,275 --------------- 17,136 (No engineering colleges in Gondia & Gadchiroli, candidates clearing MHT-CET) # Total engg seats in Ngp division * CAP | 10,373 * Institute quota | 3,427 * Minority quota | 3,336 * Total | 17,136 (CAP — Centralized Admissions Process)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/engg-intake-cut-by-about-8-5k-over-27k-apply-for-17k-seats/articleshow/79650649.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Govt seeks list of corona warriors for vaccine||Jaipur: The health department has sought the list of doctors and other healthcare workers willing to get Covid vaccine.The vaccine will be administered to corona warriors. Apart from health, the department is planning to get vaccines for workers under Integrated Child Development Schemes (ICDS), who are actively involved in fight against Covid.Many healthcare staff which are linked to ICDS help the health department in vaccination, in implementation of maternal and child-care schemes and now in door-to-door survey. “Apart from healthcare workers, we are collecting the data of ICDS employees who are actively involved in Covid fight. The vaccine will be administered to corona warriors on priority basis,” said a senior health department official. Over one lakh corona warriors in the health department have been registered for the vaccine. A health department official said they have been asked to send a list of all the employees involved in Covid-related activities. “Those healthcare workers who are interested in getting Covid vaccine have been asked to provide all details along with place of posting and identity proof,” said the official. The health department has given seven-day time to all the employees to provide details required for the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-seeks-list-of-corona-warriors-for-vaccine/articleshow/79650637.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||Call to speed up online voter registration process||Pune: Residents of several housing societies have urged the state election office to quickly approve online applications submitted during the ongoing voter registration drive, slated to end on December 20. The regular summary revision of the voters’ list had started on November 17. Apart from seeking speedy approval of online applications, residents have also taken to social media to urge citizens to register, especially in light of the pandemic and the poor turnout for Tuesday’s election for the Graduates’ and Teachers’ constituencies. “We have observed that the response of the block level officers (BLOs) is the weakest link in the entire online process of registration. The process needs transparency — the status can be shared either on social media or via SMS,” Ravindra Sinha, a member of the Hinjewadi Residents Welfare Association, said. Nitin Jain, from the Wagholi residents’ association, said they used social media campaigns to register 10,000 new voters for last year’s elections. “We have already reached out to our societies and members to speed up submissions. The onus is on election officials to immediately intimate citizens in case of any irregularities,” Jain said. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI that election officials have already been told to speed up online registrations with due checks. “Because of the pandemic, we are leaning on politicians, NGOs and housing societies to spread the word about the registration drive. We have already directed BLOs to speed up the process,” The revised voters’ list will be published next year. In the Sus gram panchayat area, the sarpanch and other officials are doing their bit, said Pankaj Damale of the Sus-Mhalunge residents’ association. “Having faced issues during the previous elections, our group is active on social media for the registration process,” Damale said. A resident of Pune, whose application was rejected due to address proof issues, said he hoped his application was processed properly, as there is only a fortnight, left. “These registration drives should be advertised more; people are hardly aware,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/call-to-speed-up-online-voter-registration-process/articleshow/79651703.cms||Nisha Nambiar
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||In just 10 days, Rajasthan reports over 31% fall in active cases||JAIPUR: Active cases in the state slipped below 20,000-mark on Wednesday for the first time in the past 21 days. On November 18, the state had 19,478 active cases, which rose to 20,198 on the next day. Since then, the active cases continued to rise till November 29 when it reported 28,758, which is an all-time high in the state. Since November 29, the active cases have been going down and it went below 20,000 mark, reporting reduction of 8,966 active cases in the past 10 days, which is a landmark achievement for the health authorities. The state has witnessed reduction of 31.1% active cases in the past 10 days. The past few days have seen a significant change in pandemic situation as the state reported more recoveries than new infections between November 30 and December 9. As many as 20,241 people were found infected with Covid, however, in the same duration, 29,014 patients recovered. “It is a good sign as active cases have gone down. People should continue taking precautions to prevent spread of the virus. We are creating awareness among people to use face masks,” said a senior health department official. Besides, 17 people died, while 1,511 others tested positive for Covid in the state on Wednesday bringing its overall tally to 2,85,627. State’s death toll rose to 2,485. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (401), Jodhpur (205), Ajmer (81), Bhilwara (79), Udaipur (75), Kota (61), Nagaur (61), Bharatpur (61), Sriganganagar (48), Pali (45), Sikar (41), Alwar (39), Jhunjhunu (33), Chittorgarh (28), Bundi (27), Rajsamand (25), Barmer (24), Sirohi (24), Jaisalmer (19), Bikaner (19), Jalore (17), Jhalawar (17), Karauli (16), Churu (14), Dausa (13), Dholpur (12), Baran (11), Banswara (5), Sawai Madhopur (5), Pratapgarh (3) and Tonk (2). Three persons died of Covid in Jaipur taking its toll to 466, two persons died in Jodhpur taking its toll to 259, with two deaths Jhunjhunu’s toll rose to 45, with two deaths Kota’s toll rose to 153, two persons died in Pali taking its toll to 99, two persons died in Barmer taking its toll to 44, Ajmer 203rd, Sikar 86th, Nagaur 83rd and Chittorgarh reported it 35th death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-just-10-days-state-reports-over-31-fall-in-active-cases/articleshow/79650628.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bus hits Akhbarnagar underpass wall in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: From pictures of a BRTS bus in which the front portion has been torn, anyone would presume that people had been killed. However, this was not the case. On Wednesday afternoon, a BRTS bus running between Iskcon Crossroads and RTO Circle hit the dividing wall of the Akhbarnagar underpass which such force that its front portion split. Fortunately there were no passengers on inside. The bus driver and a supervisor aboard, did suffer injuries. The police investigation found that the accident occurred as steering wheel of the bus got locked and the driver, Ramesh Makwana, 37, then hit the wall. Makwana suffered a fracture to his right leg and cuts to his. The supervisor, Charan Gehlot, 27, a resident of Ranip, suffered a fracture in his spine. Head constable of B division traffic police, Ramesh Desai, the investigating officer, said, “Makwana stated that the steering go locked suddenly and he could not control the bus due to which it rammed into the wall.” Desai said it is likely that the driver was speeding at the time of accident and the bus was not in proper condition. “However, the exact reason will be ascertained only frm the reports of the FSL and the RTO,” he said. Desai said Gehlot filed a complaint of causing severe hurt and damage to public property along with charges under the of Motor Vehicle Act against Makwana. He stressed that the accident would have been fatal if there were passengers aboard. “Fortunately, all passengers had got off just two stops earlier,” he said. There were not many vehicles in the underpass at the time, which also probably saved lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bus-hits-akhbarnagar-underpass-wall/articleshow/79650640.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Revoked: Teachers’ pay grade order||Gandhinagar: The state government on Wednesday decided to withdraw a controversial decision regarding primary school teachers’ grade pay. Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that following representation from several quarters, a high level meeting chaired by the CM discussed the issue on Tuesday. The education department’s earlier decision of June 25, 2019 suspending the higher pay scale, was discussed. The meeting cancelled the June 25, 2019 decision as a result of which about 65,000 primary school teachers would continue to get the 4,200 grade higher pay scale as before. The notification to pay them 2,800 grade pay in lieu of 4,200 grade pay scale stands suspended.  The CM has directed the education department to implement immediately the new order in consultation with the finance and general administration departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/revoked-teachers-pay-grade-order/articleshow/79650650.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||After prolonged slack season, jungle resorts fully booked for Dec 31||Nagpur: Jungle resorts around Nagpur are all set to ring in the New Year with sound of cash registers jingling, as occupancy levels for December 31 are at almost 100%. After a terribly prolonged slack season, the buzz is back in resorts in Pench, about 80km from Nagpur, with bookings for New Year’s Eve being closed at premium rates. Sandeep Singh, resort owner and office bearer of Pench Jungle Lodges Federation, said, “The response for New Year’s is excellent. Most of the resorts are already sold out. And the few rooms still available are likely to be gone soon.” Gaurav Choukasey, owner of Olive Resorts, said the booking chart has shot up sharply. “If you look in context with what we all went through since the lockdown started in mid-March, then the response is superb,” said Choukasey. He added that it is business as usual when compared to previous years. “New Year’s Eve is always a sold out event in every Pench resort. So simply put, the 100% occupancy level is not a new thing. But it’s true that all this seemed impossible just two months ago,” said Choukasey. Pench is not only one of the closest places from Nagpur, but also has a plethora of budget options on both Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh side. Right from five star facilities to budget rooms by local entrepreneurs, party goers have a long list to choose from. Even at the popular Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), about 140km from Nagpur, things are looking up. Hrishikesh Wachasundar, whose resort is run in partnership with a nationally known hotel brand, said “All our rooms are completely out. This peak booking slot starts from December 23 and goes on till January 1.” Himanshu Bagde, a wildlife consultant, said the response has been terrific. “There is not even a single room available in entire TATR for New Year’s Eve. Apart from this, wildlife tourism is seen as the safest option in Covid-19 era, as overcrowding simply does not happen here at all,” said Bagde. The overwhelming response there may also be due to zero options for revellers in the city. With closing time for restaurants being 9.30pm in Nagpur city, New Year’s party plans are dead already. Shilpi Singh-Bagdi, owner of an upscale city restaurant, said, “On regular nights people are flocking to dhabas outside city limits as there is virtually no time limit there. So, the business outside city limits is coming at the cost of those here, because rules are strictly adhered to.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-prolonged-slack-season-jungle-resorts-fully-booked-for-dec-31/articleshow/79650658.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||DRI seizes cigarettes worth Rs 52 lakh||Jaipur: Four days after unearthing a smuggling racket and a tax evasion of customs duty of Rs 67 lakh through seizing foreign-made cigarettes and garments, the Jaipur unit of Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Wednesday seized 2.6 lakh sticks of foreign-made smuggled cigarettes worth Rs 52 lakh.DRI sleuths stated that these cigarettes were smuggled into Jaipur through couriers. Following intense surveillance, the DRI on Sunday seized foreign made cigarettes worth Rs 67 lakh which were smuggled into Jaipur. Sleuths had also arrested two persons including Nitesh Jain and Ashish Gupta and had seized smuggled readymade garments worth Rs 10 lakh.“During investigation, we got to know that cigarettes are also being smuggled into Jaipur through courier services. Some of the consignments were in transit and we were waiting for its arrival. Finally on Wednesday, our team managed to seize 2.6 lakh cigarettes worth Rs 52 lakh. So since Sunday we have seized foreign-made cigarettes worth Rs 1.19 crore,” said a senior officer of DRI on the condition of anonymity,Sleuths stated that the recent seizures showed that use of foreign-made cigarettes was rampant in Jaipur. “It was found that the cigarettes arrived in Jaipur via Guwahati (Assam) and entered into India via Myanmar. Foreign-made cigarettes are not only popular among customers, but also give heavy margin of profit to the sellers including retailers. Many paan shops in Jaipur, too, keep these cigarettes and sell them to their trusted customers over the counters,” said a DRI offiicial.Authorities stated that they are working on some other clues and corroborating evidences to make further raids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dri-seizes-cigarettes-worth-rs-52-lakh/articleshow/79650647.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||Dehu village is now a nagar panchayat||PUNE: The state urban development department on Tuesday released a notification converting Dehu village, a key pilgrim centre in the state, from a gram panchayat to a nagar panchayat with immediate effect. A nagar panchayat or a notified area council, with a population between 11,000 and 25,000, is usually a settlement in transition from rural to urban area and brings with it several development initiatives as are normally seen with municipal bodies. Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary, urban development-II, told TOI on Wednesday, “We have cleared Dehu gaon as nagar panchayat which means that it has become an urban local body. The shift to a nagar panchayat will give it more independence and power. Moreover, it stands to get more finances from the Finance Commission.” “The 2011 census figures of Dehu is 17,475 and if we consider the current year, it could have touched 20,000. So, it was decided to give the pilgrim centre, the status of nagar panchayat. The nagar panchayat will have an administrator – a chief officer -- who will be responsible for the area. The tehsildar, too, will help till the elections are conducted by the State Election Commission. The notification of removal of Dehu as gram panchayat and the order of Dehu as nagar panchayat was issued simultaneously on Tuesday,” he added. Ratnamala Karande, former sapranch, Dehu village, said, “Considering the rising population of the village and civic issues such as drainage line, water supply, etc it was necessary to have a proper administrative system. It had become difficult for the gram panchayat to run administrative work effectively in last few years.” Block development officer Prashant Shirke of Haveli Tehsil, under which the village was earlier, said, “Now, it can get funds from various authorities for development work. It receives good revenue as tax owing to urbanisation in the last decade.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dehu-village-isnow-a-nagar-panchayat/articleshow/79651699.cms||Sandip Dighe
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to use vacant all-India quota seats||AHMEDABAD: The Admission Committee for Professional Undergraduate & Postgraduate Medical Education Courses on Wednesday stated that the vacant seats from the all-India quota would be made available to state quota students for the second round of admission in medical and dental courses. The committee stated that as many as 14,177 students participated in the first phase of second round of admission and indicated the colleges of their preference between December 6 and 9. There were nearly 5,000 medical seats and 1,100 dental seats up for grabs in the undergraduate courses. The committee has stated that after the All India Admission Committee conducted its process, there are 25 seats in medical courses and 30 seats in dental courses, which have remained vacant. These vacant seats from the all-India quota will now be available for the state’s quota in the second round of admission. After the first round of admission, as many as 585 seats remained vacant in medical courses and 798 seats have not been filled in dental courses. Above these seats, the vacant seats from the all-India quota will be made available for the second round. The committee has told the students to avoid visiting the help centres unless it is absolutely necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-to-use-vacant-all-india-quota-seats/articleshow/79650661.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||7 of 11 Vid dists have less than 500 Covid-19 patients under treatment||Nagpur: First nine days of December have brought respite for Vidarbha region in terms of Covid-19 cases. Due to decreasing new Covid cases and increasing recoveries, the number of under-treatment patients has reduced significantly across the region. On Wednesday, the region reported 857 new cases against 977 recoveries. Now, seven out of 11 districts in Vidarbha have less than 500 patients under treatment. Only Nagpur with 5,873 and Chandrapur 1,207 patients are the two districts having more than 1,000 active cases now. In Amravati division, all five districts — Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana — have less than 500 active cases. Total 10,839 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha, which is nearly 4.6% of the total cases reported till date in the region.Total 17 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the region on December 9. Nagpur accounted for 9 of them, but only 2 were are from Nagpur city. Four of the remaining seven are patients from outstation/states who came in critical condition and died the same day on Wednesday. Other 3 deceased were from Nagpur rural. Bhandara reported 4 deaths, Chandrapur 2, while Amravati and Buldhana reported 1 death each. As on Wednesday, Vidarbha’s Covid toll reached 6,231. Case fatality rate is 2.64%, which is more than the state and national averages.Of the 857 new cases of Covid-19 infection detected on Wednesday, Nagpur reported 403, Chandrapur 108, Bhandara 52, Amravati 51, Gadchiroli 49, Gondia 48, Buldhana 40, Akola 37, Wardha 35, Yavatmal 23, and Washim 11, while 977 recoveries came from Nagpur 230, Chandrapur 276, Bhandara 112, Gondia 110, Amravati 70, Wardha 52, Yavatmal 36, Buldhana 30, Gadchiroli 23, Akola 19, and Washim 19. Now, out of total 2,35,507 cases, 2,18,437 have recovered, which means Vidarbha’s recovery rate is 92.75%.Amravati: Yet another Covid death and a spike of 51 cases took the district’s toll to 385 and caseload to 18,348 on Wednesday. Recoveries improved to 70, taking the total to 17,492 for a recovery rate of 95.22. This left 471 active cases under treatment.Chandrapur: Two deaths took the toll to 329. With 108 testing positive, the caseload in the district reached 20,033. The recovery rate has suddenly shot up. In all, 276 people were discharged, taking the recoveries to 19,497 on Wednesday. There are now 1207 active patients under treatment. Wardha: On Wednesday, 35 patients tested positive, taking the total to 8,251. Meanwhile, 52 were discharged with recoveries at 7,626. Out of 651 test reports, 17 men and 18 women tested positive. Positive cases were reported from Wardha 23, Hinganghat 6, Arvi, Deoli 2 each and Karanja and Samudrapur 1 each. Active positive patients under treatment are 366. The death toll in the district remained 259.Yavatmal: Out of the 295 reports, 23 were found positive. There are 287 active positive patients undergoing treatment in various Covid Care Centres across the district. In all, 36 patients were discharged on Wednesday. The toll remains 380. Gondia: Total 48 Covid cases were detected in the district on Wednesday, while 110 patients recovered. No Coronavirus-related death was reported in the last 48 hours. Downward trend in fresh cases can be validated if the share of RT-PCR tests is increased in the district. At present, Gondia has 12,928 total cases, 12,305 recoveries, 168 deaths and 455 patients under treatment.Bhandara: The district recorded 4 Covid-19 deaths on December 9. This is second time this week that Bhandara has registered 4 deaths. Now, the district has total 269 deaths due to Covid-19. With 52 new cases added on Wednesday, the total cases reached 11,299. On the other hand, 112 patients got discharge after recovery in the day. This took the number of recoveries to 10,446. With a recovery rate of 92.45%, total 584 patients are under treatment in Bhandara.Akola: The district received more than 500 reports of Covid-19 tests, out of which 37 tested positive on December 9. This took the total number of Covid cases in Akola to 9,742. Also, 19 patients recovered in the day taking the number of total recoveries to 8,768. No death was reported in Akola on Wednesday. Now, with 301 deaths reported till date, Akola has 673 patients under treatment. Buldhana: An 80-year-old man from Sindkhed Raja died during treatment on Wednesday taking the district’s Covid toll to 141. The district also reported 40 new cases, while 30 recovered. Now, Buldhana has 11,698 total cases, including 11,236 recoveries and 321 patients under treatment.Washim: The district reported 11 new cases, once again, lowest for any district in Vidarbha, on Wednesday. On the other hand, 19 patients recovered in the day. No Covid death was reported. Now, the district has 6,301 total cases, including 5,976 recoveries. Washim’s recovery rate is 95%. Total 177 patients are under treatment, lowest in the region.Gadchiroli: The district reported 49 cases of Covid-19 and 23 recoveries on Wednesday. No death was reported in the day. In all, Gadchiroli now has 8,370 total cases of Covid-19, out of which 7,854 have recovered. Recovery rate of the district is nearing 94%. Now, 427 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-of-11-vid-dists-have-less-than-500-covid-19-patients-under-treatment/articleshow/79650652.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||State govt deviates from Centre norms for bldg plan sanction, OC||Nagpur: The state government's unified development control and promotion regulations (DCPR) is in contravention with central government’s order as far as time frame for sanctioning building plan and issuing occupancy certificate (OC) is concerned. The state has fixed 60 days for sanctioning building plan and 21 days for issuing OC while it is 30 days and 8 days, respectively, in centre’s order issued under Ease of Doing Business three years ago. As per unified DCPR, the planning authority is supposed to grant or refuse commencement certificate/building permit within 60 days of receiving the application. This will be applicable for buildings proposed in an area of over 300 sq mt. For building on a plot up to 150 sq mt, no sanction is required. The applicant has to pay charges and submit intimation letter with all documents. For building on a 150 sq mt to 300 sq.mt plot, the authority has to just issue demand note for depositing charges within 10 days of receiving the application and documents, and countersign the plans and issue commencement certificate within 10 days of receipt of plans. There will be no scrutiny or checking of plinth level. Ground floor+2 or stilt+3 floors are permissible in these two categories. President of local chapter of Indian Institute of Architects (IIA) Paramjeet Singh Ahuja told TOI, “Decision related to plots up to 300 sq mt is welcome. But only 20% applications fall in these two categories. Remaining 80% applications are builder driven for which time frame of 60 days will be applicable. “IIA in its submission during draft of unified DCPR suggested time frame of 30 days at par with that finalized by the centre under Ease of Doing Business. There are few more such issues in unified DCR. We will plan to make another representation with the state and demand some amendments,” he said. The centre had fixed time frame of 8 days from receipt of completion certificate for issuing OC. Even the state in 2017 had issued three notifications reducing building plan sanction time period from 60 days to 30 days and OC from 21 days to 8 days. An official from Nagpur Municipal Corporation told TOI, “Planning authorities did not implement revised time frame mentioned in state’s notifications issued in 2017, as was done for online Building Plan Management System (BPMS). NMC launched BPMS in 2018 but discontinued after couple of months for various technical reasons,” he said. The state’s notifications issued in 2017 did not mention that revised time frame was only for BPMS and not for manual building plan sanctions. Also, the state had prepared unified DCPR for all municipal corporations, excluding Mumbai, for uniformity in DCRs and launching a single system BPMS for entire state. BPMS is all set to be launched by the state soon. Activist Anil Wadpalliwar said it was unfortunate that the time frame has not been reduced in unified DCPR. “With availability of new technologies, time frame of all services are supposed to be reduced. Also, all services should be online. Lengthy time frame helps in continuation of red-tapism and causes inconvenience to people,” he said. --------------------------------------- Provision of deemed building plan sanction and occupancy certificate * If within 60 days of receipt of notice along with necessary permission fees, the authority fails to intimate in writing to the person of its refusal or sanction, the notice with its plan and statements shall be deemed to have been sanctioned *Authority shall within 15 days from date of receipt of such claim, communicate its remarks, if any, regarding deemed permission to the applicant, failing which, the proposal shall be approved and commencement certificate along with one set of duly approved plans for proposed development shall be issued to the applicant within 15 days thereafter * Necessary explanation shall be called from the concerned officers for not processing and disposing of the proposal within 60 days and necessary action shall be initiated against the defaulter officer *Authority will have to issue deemed occupancy certificate if failed to release it within 21 days from receipt of completion certificate subject to construction conforms to the sanctioned plan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-govt-deviates-from-centre-norms-for-bldg-plan-sanction-oc/articleshow/79650665.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||EPS only CM from non-BJP ruled states to support farm laws, says Kanimozhi||Coimbatore: Hours after chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami argued in favour of three new farm laws brought by the Centre, DMK sharpened its attack on the CM. DMK MP M K Kanimozhi said EPS was the only chief minister from a non–BJP ruled state supporting the farm laws. Addressing a gathering of farmers as part of `Vidiyalai Nokki Stalin-in Kural’ campaign at Pollachi on Wednesday, Kanimozhi said that the three laws were inherently anti–farmer in nature. “That was the reason hundreds of farmers are protesting in Delhi. Stalin was opposing the laws as they would affect the farmers. But EPS was supporting the three laws,’’ she noted. Kanimozhi said that the three laws would take away food security for the poor and downtrodden. It was more than clear that the laws would not help farmers rather they would benefit only the corporates, she said. “DMK is very particular about providing a minimum support price for the benefit of farmers. But the new farm laws do not guarantee MSP,’’ she said. She pointed out that it was DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi who brought free electricity for farmers, but the Centre was bringing in changes to remove free power for farmers. Though late chief minister J Jayalalithaa had opposed the Centre for the attempt to do away with free power, the present AIADMK dispensation was silent on the move now, she alleged. Alleging that the Centre as well as the state government had totally failed the farmers, Kanimozhi said that the state government had also duped the public claiming that all water bodies were revived by ‘kudimaramathu’ works. “Only politicians benefited in the name of carrying out the work. There was no revival of water bodies,’’ she said. Recalling the irregularities in the PM Kisan scheme, Kanimozhi said that the EPS-led government had failed even to implement the scheme meant to benefit farmers properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-only-cm-from-non-bjp-ruled-states-to-support-farm-laws-says-kanimozhi/articleshow/79650674.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||India||Only 53% of healthcare workers follow proper hand hygiene, finds AIIMS survey||After all the Covid messaging and drills of preventive guidelines, only about half the healthcare workers are washing hands for the mandated 20 seconds. A month-long survey in August by a team of AIIMS doctors found that Covid-19 safety practices are yet to sink in among health workers. Of the 956 surveyed, 47% didn’t follow proper hand hygiene and about 32% didn’t sanitise their hands after contact with patients and surroundings. “Our experience showed that healthcare workers tend to get lax over a period of time,” corresponding author Dr Piyush Ranjan told TOI. The survey covered government as well as private hospitals, and was conducted in both rural and urban areas. They were also picked from various settings — in-patient, out-patient, laboratory services — from big hospitals to small dispensaries. Surprisingly, healthcare workers in high-risk areas were found to be at no greater risk than those in low-risk areas, which might have to do with safety practices being followed. And smaller settings appeared to be more vulnerable than larger ones. More than half of those surveyed didn’t maintain social distancing while interacting with colleagues (58%), working (58%) or eating (53%). But most participants (79%) did remember not to shake hands. The lapses were attributed to lack of space, difficulty in talking to others in PPE, difficulty in changing habits and lack of knowledge. And while more than half the participants reported one or more high-risk exposure to Covid-19 patients, fewer went into quarantine. Compliance was highest with masks — 88% always wore them inside healthcare settings. About 60% wore “adequate” PPE on duty. The biggest contaminant they didn’t seem to care about was the phone. About 59% used mobile phones both during and off duty hours. “Doctors have been carrying the same mobile phone to ICUs and their homes,” said Dr Anoop Misra, chief editor of ‘Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews,’ the journal which published the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/only-53-of-healthcare-workers-follow-proper-hand-hygiene-finds-aiims-survey/articleshow/79653520.cms||Shobita Dhar
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Light showers likely over next two days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital could record a spell of light rain on Friday and Saturday , with a fresh western disturbance likely to impact the region Friday evening, the IMD has said. Delhi is also expected to see spells of shallow to moderate fog this week, with an increase in moisture content being aided by stagnant wind conditions and a low boundary layer, officials said. Delhi had recorded its first ‘dense’ fog spell on Monday when visibility fell to zero metres at Palam, while it was 300 at Safdarjung. Fog is classified as ‘dense’ when it falls below 200 metres. Met officials say while snowfall may occur in the higher parts, Delhi is likely to record a drizzle on Friday night, as well as on Saturday during the day. “Very light to light rain could occur across Delhi. This will lead to a rise in the minimum temperature, but daytime temperature will drop,” said a Met official. The maximum temperature was 29 degrees Celsius on Wednesday — five degrees above normal temperature, making it yet another warm December day this season. The IMD, however, forecasts the maximum to start dropping from Thursday and it could touch 24 degrees by December 14. The minimum on Wednesday was 9.6 degrees, one degree above normal. “We expect shallow to moderate fog on Thursday morning with the maximum and minimum likely to be around 27 and 10 degrees celsius respectively,” said the official. Delhi’s air quality, meanwhile, remained in the very poor category with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 358 on Wednesday, a slight improvement from Tuesday’s reading of 383 (very poor). “Calm surface winds are forecast for Thursday and AQI is forecast to marginally deteriorate towards the higher end of the ‘very poor category’.” said SAFAR, a government forecasting agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/light-showers-likely-over-next-two-days/articleshow/79651777.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Newborn’s nose ‘opened’ to save her||AHMEDABAD: On November 24, Aarti and Vijay Chunara celebrated the birth of a baby girl, their first child. But soon, the 2.6kg baby’s respiratory rate shot up. The worried parents first took her to a private hospital in Bopal and later to Sola Civil Hospital. She was referred to Civil Hospital on the evening of November 25. Dr Rakesh Joshi, professor and head of the paediatric surgery department of Civil Hospital, said that the girl had bilateral choanal atresia. “The nasal cavity was blocked by hard tissue, a congenital condition,” he said. “It was detected when feeding tubes could not go beyond 3 centimetres. The CT scan confirmed our suspicion.” On the seventh day of her life, the child underwent an endoscopic surgery. A 3.5mm endoscope was inserted through both nostrils. The visible bony part was slowly cut down and an opening was created. Two tubes were left for 48 hours. The child was discharged on Wednesday in satisfactory health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/newborns-nose-opened-to-save-her/articleshow/79650686.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Audio clip reveals Bhandara PFA activist demanded cash||Nagpur: Even as People For Animals (PFA) chairperson Maneka Gandhi termed the police action against Bhandara district PFA secretary Sachin Rangari unfair, an audio clip with TOI reveals that Rangari had made a demand for cash through a mediator to dump the complaint against Koka wildlife sanctuary range forest officer (RFO). On December 6 night, crime branch API Suresh Mattami nabbed one Rahul Ganvir (33), an alleged accomplice of Rangari, red-handed while accepting cash of Rs50,000 as part payment of Rs10 lakh for not pursuing a complaint against Koka RFO Sachin Jadhav for felling 10,000 trees inside the sanctuary. The trap was laid under the guidance of SP Vasant Jadhav. The audio clip reveals communication between Ganvir and Rangari where the latter is insisting to keep the cash with the mediator called ‘mama. However, the mediator had refused as his wife would know about it. There was confusion between Ganvir and Rangari where to accept the cash. Rangari wanted ‘mama’ to accept the cash and bring it to Nagpur. Amid the confusion, Ganvir accepted the bag and was caught. Both Ganvir and Rangari are out on bail. PFA chairperson Maneka Gandhi is not ready to believe that Rangari would engage in such a criminal activity. Talking to TOI, Gandhi said, “This is a lie and Rangari is being unfairly persecuted because he exposed the criminality of the forest department. I am so sad. He was doing a good job with getting the SPCA made and exposed corruption in the forest officials.” “We are verifying the calls made on cell phones by the accused and all the call detail records (CDRs) will also be verified. All the pieces of evidence will be produced in the court,” said SP Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/audio-clip-reveals-bhandara-pfa-activist-demanded-cash/articleshow/79650700.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat medical colleges to begin academic sessions by January-February||AHMEDABAD: If all goes well, MBBS students in the state will be the first to attend in-person classes in January next year. Some medical colleges are gearing up to open their doors for offline teaching for MBBS students from February 1, as recommended by the National Medical Commission. “We are planning to start teaching the foundation course as early as December-end or in the first week of January,” said Dr Nitin Vora, dean of GMERS Sola Medical College. “This course includes basic orientation on doctor-patient relationship, ethics, and other relevant topics.” The Union health ministry had recently issued a notification saying that medical colleges should resume offline teaching on or before December 1. Ever since the pandemic broke out in March-end, medical students have been studying online while final-year MBBS and PG students have been involved in Covid-19 healthcare. The authorities of local medical colleges said there has been an unprecedented delay in starting the academic session for MBBS students due to the pandemic. Planning is afoot to start offline teaching from January to pave the way for full academic sessions from February 1. “We are likely to begin offline teaching from January, starting with foundation courses,” said Dr Pranay Shah, dean of BJ Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-person-mbbs-classes-may-begin-in-jan/articleshow/79650711.cms||Bharat Yagnik
December 10, 2020||Erode||Three burial urns unearthed near Andhiyur in Erode||ERODE: Three burial urns were unearthed at Mosagoundanur near Andhiyur in the district on Wednesday. The urns were unearthed while panchayat workers were digging the ground to lay sewage canal. “We spotted three mud pots in the ground,” M Palanisamy, one of the workers, said. He said they also spotted a few bones in the pots while breaking them. The workers alerted the panchayat officials, who in turn informed the revenue department and the archeological department. Curator of the Erode district government museum B Jency inspected the mud pots and confirmed that they were burial urns. “We have collected a few bones from the urns,” she said, adding that the period of the people buried in the urns were not ascertained yet. The curator sent the urn and bone samples to the government lab in Chennai to ascertain the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/three-burial-urns-unearthed-near-andhiyur-in-erode-dist/articleshow/79650688.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Voter turnout in Edamalakudy drops by over 6%||IDUKKI: The tribal panchayat of Edamalakudy recorded 66.93% turnout in the local body polls, a drop of over six percentage from the turnout in the last elections. Election officials said several voters were wary of Covid-19 and stayed at home. Another reason is that voters of Tamil Nadu origin, who make a major chunk of the population in the region, have not yet returned from their hometowns. Most of them work in plantations and after the pandemic struck had left for their home state. “The pandemic and the heavy rains are the main reasons for the fall in turnout in the Edamalakudy panchayat. The fear of Covid-19 also kept many tribespeople away from the polling booths,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. “The voters who had gone to Tamil Nadu have not yet returned to Munnar. During the run-up to the polls, we had received information that people may turn up in large numbers to vote. But only a few managed to reach Munnar on the polling day,” said a poll official. The 65-member team of polling officials returned to the main polling station at Munnar Wednesday evening after a nine-hour journey from the tribal panchayat and the election materials have been moved to the strong room, he said. After the voting ended, the officials stayed at Edamalakudy and started from there the next day morning due to the remoteness of the area and threat from wild animals. Revenue officials too said the absence of Tamil Nadu origin voters made a big impact on the turnout in Devikulam, Nedumkandam and Azhutha compared to the last local body elections. While Devikulam recorded 70.71% turnout, Azhutha and Nedumkandam blocks registered a turnout of 70.38% and 77.11%, respectively. In the last local body elections, Devikulam had registered a voting percentage of 76.36%, while at Azhutha and Nedumkandam blocks it was 74.74% and 79.16%, respectively. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/voter-turnout-in-edamalakudy-drops-by-over-6/articleshow/79649358.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Covid cases inch closer to 50,000-mark||COIMBATORE: The number of Covid-19 cases in the district inched close to 50,000-mark by registering 133 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 49,954. With only 86 people getting discharged on the day, the active cases again rose above the 900-mark to 924. With 48,408 patients being discharged in the district so far, the recovery rate dropped marginally to 96.9%. No deaths were recorded keeping the toll at 622. With the district touching 49,000 cases on December 2, and likely to hit 50,000 cases on December 10, the pace at which 1,000 fresh cases were added is at the slowest since July 19. In July-mid, it took eight days to add 1,000 more cases when tally jumped from 1,000 cases to 2,000 cases. From the time the cases hit 2,000 in the district, it took six days or lesser to add 1,000 new cases.  “This is because our caseload dropped from 250 cases a day in November first week, to less than 120 cases a day in December first week, which is a 50% drop in a month,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “Which is why our doubling rate which was 233 days in November-end has increased up to almost 250,” he added. This means at our current rate of increase in cases, which is 0.25%, we are likely to add another 49,000 cases only over the next eight months. “We expect the doubling rate to further increase over the next few weeks,” said the deputy director. Besides the pace of recording 1,000 fresh cases, positivity rates too have returned to July’s levels. In November, the positivity rate recorded was 5.2%, which is even lower than July’s 5.91%. However, the number of samples tested in November, which stood at 93,635, is 30% higher than the 72,349 samples tested in July. In fact, the positivity rate further fell to 4.12% in the first week of December. “Of the 28,228 samples tested so far this month, only 1,163 people tested positive. There were days like December 6 and 7, when only 97 and 67 people from government labs tested positive,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-cases-inch-closer-to-50000-mark/articleshow/79650738.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||State to add 17,385MW renewable power by 2025||Nagpur: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has come out with a renewable energy policy that has set a target of adding 17,385MW renewable energy capacity by 2025. It was cleared by the cabinet on Wednesday. An investment of Rs 75,000 crore is expected in this sector in the coming five years. Other than this, a lot of solar energy will be generated in off-grid mode especially by installing 1 lakh solar farm pumps every year. The current installed capacity is 9,305MW and work on projects having 2,123MW capacity is in progress. The state policy is in line with India’s commitment to international community to reduce its carbon emissions. The country has signed the Paris Agreement in 2015 wherein 40% of its power generation capacity will be from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. The policy also aims to meet Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission’s (MERC) targets for renewable energy, which MSEDCL has consistently failed to meet. The mammoth share of the total target belongs to solar — 12,930MW. Other sources include: wind — 2,500MW, bagasse and agricultural waste — 1,350MW, small hydroelectric — 380MW, municipal solid waste — 200MW and new technologies — 25MW. The policy envisages a government expenditure of Rs4,250 crore for achieving this target. The state will not spend any money on bagasse, hydroelectric and wind energy projects. The entire investment will be done by private players. Increase in solar capacity through various routes has been stated in the policy. 10,000MW solar capacity will be added by setting up plants with minimum 1MW capacity. Private players will be selected through competitive bidding. A major boost for solar rooftop has been envisaged under this policy. The state aims to add another 2,000MW in coming five years. Another 500MW capacity will be added by converting water supply schemes in urban as well as rural areas to solar. Supplying solar power to micro water supply schemes will add another 30MW. Solar electric vehicle charging stations having 50MW capacity will be started. Hybrid solar-wind projects having 50MW capacity will be set up on land belonging to Maharashtra Energy Development Agency (MEDA). Under the off-grid projects, 12MW capacity will be installed atop government buildings and 40MW atop cooperative society buildings. One lakh solar farm pumps will be provided to agriculturists every year. Further, 10,000 houses would be provided solar power per annum. Renewable energy expert Ajit Prasad Ganguly said that the targets were ambitious but achievable. “For example if the government really decides it can distribute 1 lakhs farm pumps a year. However, more clarity is needed in the policy,” he added. IN A NUTSHELL 12,930MW to be generated through solar energy Of this 2,000MW is the share of solar rooftop 2,500MW will be wind and 1,350MW will be bagasse Solar electric vehicle charging stations to be started One lakh solar farm pumps to be installed every year Energy minister Nitin Raut decides not to go for coal-based projects any more Coal-based power plants have polluted the atmosphere in their vicinity Most of these plants do not meet emission norms of MoEFCC New policy claims to remove lacunae of 2015 renewable policy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-to-add-17385mw-renewable-power-by-2025/articleshow/79650737.cms||Ashish Roy
December 10, 2020||Madurai||PIL against graft probe: Madras HC decides to hear M K Surappa||MADURAI: Brushing aside Tamil Nadu government’s objection to permitting Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa to tag himself as a party to a pending PIL against a judicial inquiry against him, Madras high court has said he should be heard in the interest of justice. A division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice B Pugalendhi, sitting at Madurai bench of the court, observed that since the vice-chancellor is the subject matter in the PIL, no prejudice would be caused to the government or the petitioner if he is impleaded. “It would only help this court to adjudicate this matter,” they reasoned on Wednesday. The court is seized of a PIL filed by Manithanigai Kumar of Kanyakumari district challenging the GO passed by the state government to initiate a probe against Surappa. On his part, Surappa filed a separate petition to implead himself as party to the proceedings. Taking exception to this, Tamil Nadu advocate-general Vijay Narayan submitted that the PIL itself had been filed at the instance of Surappa and that it was a case of forum shopping. Since it is a public interest writ petition, the VC cannot seek any relief, said the AG, adding that Madurai bench of the high court did not have jurisdiction to hear the case. However, allowing the VC to implead himself in the case, the judges said a perusal of VC’s petition showed that he had challenged the GO by raising several grounds. Holding that the Madurai bench would have had jurisdiction to hear the petition if the VC had not filed an impleading petition, the judges said that since VC had filed an impleading petition, the principal seat alone would have jurisdiction to hear the case. They then transferred the case to the principal seat in Chennai, and said it be placed before the chief justice to be posted before the appropriate bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pil-against-graft-probe-hc-decides-to-hear-surappa/articleshow/79651779.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Teachers neglecting parents to face pay cuts: Ahmednagar zilla parishad||NASHIK: The Ahmednagar Zilla Parishad has decided to slash 30% from the salaries of teachers and transfer the amount to their parents accounts if they are found being ill-treated or neglected, said the ZP president Rajashri Ghule on Wednesday. “A resolution in this regard was tabled during the civic general body meeting on November 27, and it was unanimously passed,” she said. Ghule, who was earlier president of the ZP education panel, had discussed the passage of such a resolution in 2018. “We have arrived at the decision based on complaints by the parents of various teachers. We will, however, hear the teachers and their parents before taking any decision on a case-to-case basis.” The Latur ZP was the first to pass such a resolution, but is yet to implement it. Rahul Kendre, the president of the local self-governing body said, “A panel will be formed to implement the decision on effecting 30% salary cuts for staffers who faile to take care of their parents.” “We have come across around half a dozen complaints, which will be investigated by the panel. A legal framework is being created to implement the decision,” added the Latur ZP president Ahmednagar ZP chief Ghule said the teachers often seek transfers near their homes under the pretext of taking care of their parents and that priority is give to such staff. However, there have been many instances of parents being thrown out of their homes or even forced to beg for food despite the children living next door, she said. About implementation of the order, Ghule said that if such complaints come to them, the administration will give a patient hearing to both parents and teachers before taking the final decision. Teachers’ Association of Ahmednagar president Rajendra Lande welcomed the move by the Ahmednagar ZP. “There are many such cases among teachers. They must take care of their parents. The ZP has clearly pointed out that no injustice would be done to anybody,” he said. (With inputs from Prasad Joshi, Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/teachers-neglecting-parents-to-face-pay-cuts-ahmednagar-zp/articleshow/79648363.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||91 e-wallet users duped of Rs 19 lakh in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: An e-wallet company “Easy Pay”, which has its office on SG Road in Ahmedabad, had lodged a complaint with the cybercrime cell alleging that several banks reported money from their customers’ bank accounts were being siphoned off by some of their agents. The complaint states that 91 customers have been cheated of Rs 18.94 lakh, though no Aadhaar card data or fingerprint was given to anyone by any of the victims. Cybercrime cell officials said based on the complaint they tracked down one Prashant Shah of Chandkheda who had obtained Aadhaar card data and fingerprints of people from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh. They had been told they would get LED bulbs free on furnishing this data. “The data was also sold to cyber criminals in UP, Haryana and Delhi by Shah. “He used to sell the data for between Rs 150 and Rs 300 per lead,” a senior cybercrime cell official said. Cybercrime sources said based on this data Shah, became an agent of the e-wallet company by providing Aadhaar card data and fingerprints for KYC and randomly matched this with customers of “Easy Pay” to access their bank accounts and siphoned off their money,” said a cyber cell official. The FIR states that the e-wallet company only make agents after verifying their Aadhaar card details, name and mobile number and fingerprints. “But in this case the Aadhaar card data was taken from people in Bhind who had accounts in the banks which reported the cheating,” added a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/91-e-wallet-users-duped-of-rs-19l/articleshow/79650730.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||NMC seizes 270kg banned plastic bags from Satranjipura shop||Nagpur: The nuisance detection squad (NDS) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Wednesday seized 270kg banned plastic bags from Mahalakshmi Traders, situated in a shopping complex developed and run by the civic body in Satranjipura. Acting on a tip-off about the trader engaged in sale of plastic bags with thickness of less than 50 micron, the NDS squad conducted a search and recovered 270kg plastic bags which have been banned from being used. Entire stock was seized and a fine of Rs5,000 was recovered from the shopkeeper. As on date, the NDS has seized 31,914kg banned plastic bags and recovered fine to the tune of Rs1.69 crore from 2,048 establishments from June 23, 2018 when the ban came into effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-seizes-270kg-banned-plastic-bags-from-satranjipura-shop/articleshow/79649351.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||No permission for daily Nilgiri Mountain Rail trip||COIMBATORE: Even as protests against private chartering of the Nilgiri Mountain Rail continue, private operator Homemade Group-TN-43 announced daily trips from January. Pictures of a flex board advertising the trips in front of the group’s bakery at Karamadai circulated on WhatsApp on Wednesday. When railway employees brought this to their notice, railway authorities clarified that permission has not been given to the operator to conduct the service. They also instructed the operator to remove the advertisements. This comes as political parties and Southern Railway Mazdoor Union announced demonstrations against the move. “When the regular train has not yet begun operation, operating this train, which is unaffordable for the common man, is not fair,” Social Justice Party general secretary Vellamalai A Nagarajan said. Railway authorities clarified that they have not received any official request from the private firm to operate the train daily, nor have they given such permission. “We have instructed the firm to remove the flex boards. We are expecting the railway board to restart daily operations of the NMR soon,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-permission-for-daily-nmr-trip/articleshow/79650740.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Industries seek help to curb raw material price spike||COIMBATORE: A sudden increase in raw material prices has prompted the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Association (Focia) to urge the central government to form a price monitoring committee and fix a cap limit on the prices. “Price of steel, copper, aluminium and zinc has gone up by 16 to 25% in the last two months. That of materials like PVC pipes and ABS plastic have gone up by 140%,” Focia coordinator J James told reporters on Wednesday. The last time industries witnessed such a price rise was in 2017, when the central government introduced goods and service tax (GST), he said. “After struggling for months, we have started to recover from the brunt of Covid-19 pandemic. But due to the price hike, companies are forced to reduce production.” Ravindran, president of Coimbatore Compressor Industries’ Association, said they could not revise the rate of products as their customers are not willing to deviate from the quoted price. “We have orders from some government sectors and if we delay delivery, they would slap penalty on us for every single day. Gone are the days when we sold our products for a considerable profit.” “To control the price rise, the central government should form a price monitoring committee and fix cap limit on price of raw materials. The cap limit should be revised only once a year. The central government should also fix a limit on storing raw materials,” Ravindran said. “The central government already has a monitoring committee to control price rise in the agricultural sector and has fixed a minimum support price for certain farm produce.” As many as 19 associations including Coimbatore Wet Grinders Manufacturers Association (Cowma), Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association (Cosiema) and Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises (Tact) are part of the federation, which has over 10,000 industries as members. To press their charter of demands, the members have decided to stage a massive protest on December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industries-seek-help-to-curb-raw-material-price-spike/articleshow/79650746.cms||Nivedha Selvam
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Newly wed man killed in bike accident in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: A newly married man was killed in a road accident on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as K Muthu Manikandan, 26, a native of Ariyalur district. He was working in a private hospital at Sundarapuram as an ambulance driver and had got married 10 days ago. After the marriage, Manikandan had rented a house near the hospital and had moved in with his wife. “On Tuesday night, Manikandan and his colleague Mustaq Sheriff were passing through the Sundarapuram - Madukkarai Road on a bike. Sheriff was riding the vehicle. It crashed into another bike coming from the opposite direction. Manikandan was thrown off and suffered serious head injuries. He died on the spot,” a police officer said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/newly-wed-man-killed-in-bike-accident/articleshow/79650734.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||BJP sweep in Raj panchayat samiti, zila parishad elections||Jaipur: In a major setback for the ruling Congress government in the state, the saffron party in Rajasthan swept 1,989 seats in the panchayat samiti elections, limiting Congress to 1,852 seats. The independents bagged 439 seats while RLP bagged 60, CPM 26 and BSP five seats, according to the state election commission (SEC). The elections were held to 4,371 seats in 222 panchayat samitis and 636 in 21 zila parishads. The BJP has an absolute majority in 93 panchayat samitis followed by Congress in 81. In 43 panchayat samitis, independents will call the shots as none of the parties have a majority. In five panchayat samitis, other parties have a majority. In zila parishad elections, BJP won 353 seats while the Congress had to contend with 252. Independents bagged 18, RLP 10 and CPM two seats. Only the result of one zila parishad has not been announced yet. The BJP is in a majority in 13 zila parishads and is set to head two more in Nagaur and Barmer with the help of ally RLP. The Congress won five of the remaining zila parishads. The results have come as a boost for the BJP when its government at the Centre is facing protests from farmers in Punjab and Haryana over the three new laws to deregulate the sale of crops. “This victory is the people’s stamp on BJP’s rural policies. It reflects support for PM Narendra Modi's ideology, laws for farmers and the hard work of BJP workers,” BJP state president Satish Poonia said. “There was no implementation of farm loan waiver as promised by Congress leaders during the assembly elections, the school fee and electricity bill issues have not been resolved," he said. “Many thanks to all the candidates for increasing the base of the party in the panchayat elections held in 21 districts of the state. These results give us motivation to work better in the future, the Congress party will do better in the upcoming elections by keeping a good synergy between power and organisation,” tweeted Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra. The state election commission conducted elections in the 21 districts of Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawad, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur. The polls were held in four phases on November 23 and 29, December 1 and 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-sweep-in-raj-panchayat-samiti-zila-parishad-elections/articleshow/79651780.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Samruddhi’s Nashik stretch by Dec 2021||Nashik: The Nashik stretch of the Nagpur-Mumbai Samruddhi Expressway being constructed by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) is set to be completed by December 2021, sources said.According to the officials, 37% work on the 100km stretch of the expressway — that starts from Sayale village in Sinnar taluka and runs till Nandgaon Sado in Igatpuri taluka — is done. The road in Sinnar and some sections in Igatpuri will be completed earlier. It will take more time to complete the segment of road where a large number of structures like bridges and viaducts are to be built.According to the officials, they have launched a special exercise to interact with the villagers so that the construction activity does not affect agricultural work. “We have appointed retired government personnel as liaison officers,” they added.One officer said the project was delayed due to the pandemic after workers left for their hometowns. “Six-month of extension is on the cards and the deadlines set are including this extension,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/samruddhis-nashik-stretch-by-dec-2021/articleshow/79648373.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Earring on dumped body leads to father||AHMEDABAD: An earring found on the corpse of Bharti Rajput was the clue that cracked this blind case — it has emerged that Rajput died of hanging after failed elopement and her father had dumped her body. Later, cops determined that the earring was similar to the ones the woman was photographed wearing. The body was found at an isolated place near Rameshwarnagar railway tracks on the morning of November 30. At that stage, Meghaninagar police, which was investigating the case, had no leads. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 4, Rajesh Gadhiya said on Wednesday that the woman’s father, Jagdish Rajput, has been held. Jagdish is a resident of Bhargav Road and hails from UP. “Jagdish has revealed that his daughter, 20, was in love with a man in the neighbourhood,” Gadhiya said. “She had eloped with the man on November 19, but was brought back by her family.” On November 21, the family left for UP’s Etawah; the woman returned to Ahmedabad alone on November 27 and stayed at a Naroda hotel. “On November 29, she called her lover in a reunion bid,” Gadhiya said. “However, the lover informed the woman’s family. Her kin took her back home and severely reprimanded her for her actions. She later died from hanging.” Police said Jagdish stuffed the body into a gunny sack and disposed of it at 3.45am on November 30. He set fire to the sack in an attempt to erase all evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/earring-on-dumped-body-leads-to-father/articleshow/79650750.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar’s recovery rate touches 96.1 %||Nashik: The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Ahmednagar district has touched 96.1% even though the number of active cases has increased after Diwali. According to the district officials, on November 4, there were 1,426 active cases then the number dropped to 1,149 on November 17. But now it has risen to 1,557 cases. The number of cases reported per day was around 260 on November 4, and it dropped to 175 cases around November 17. Following a spike, 338 cases were registered on November 26 and on Wednesday, 316 people tested positive. The number of patients recovering has increased as 192 people were discharged on November 6, which further rose to 305 on November 17 then reduced to 145 on December 2. On Wednesday, 345 patients were discharged. “The situation is well under control,” the officers said adding the rise in the number of cases was expected post-Diwali as people travelled to and from their native places.  The cases have doubled but at the same time, the rate of recovery has also increased. Another important factor is most of the patients are asymptomatic, added the sources said. The authorities have cautioned the citizens against being complacent towards the infection. The district has registered 971 deaths so far, while 63,081 patients have recovered and 1,557 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagars-recovery-rate-touches-96-1-/articleshow/79648382.cms||Abhilash Botekar
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Brimming Teppakulam has turned into Marina of Madurai: Minister||Madurai: Expressing happiness at the Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam brimming with water, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju on Wednesday said that it has become the Marina of Madurai, as the waterbody is turning into a major leisure and tourist spot.Stating that the tank has helped the groundwater level in areas around it improve considerably, Raju added that the kudimaramathu works carried out in Madurai district has resulted in the groundwater situation improving in all 100 wards of the corporation.He was speaking to reporters after inspecting the scheme to bring water from the river Vaigai to the teppakulam through the Pannaiyur channel. The minister said that efforts taken by the corporation to bring water to this 1000ftt X 950ft tank for a depth of more than 15 feet, were commendable.Normally, it would take about 12 days to fill up the tank but this year the corporation had ensured that the tank filled up thrice, he said.Raju added that the brimming teppakulam was another example of the chief minister’s outstanding efforts to improve the water situation in the state. The tank had filled up through its original supply system after 40 years. All these efforts have helped the AIADMK garner full support of the people, he said.The tank was constructed by King Thirumalai Naicker in 1645 AD. He had constructed a box culvert to ensure that water coming from the river was filtered before it entered the tank. Similarly, the corporation had constructed a box culvert at a cost of Rs 50 lakh near the check dam on the Vaigai riverbed. Water flowing through the Pannaiyur channel was also filtered in four places before it entered the tank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/brimming-teppakulam-has-turned-into-marina-of-madurai-minister/articleshow/79651843.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad marathon raises funds for disabled soldiers||AHMEDABAD: The Adani Group held the fourth edition of the Adani Ahmedabad Marathon earlier this week, dedicated to the bravery of Indian soldiers. The theme #Run4OurSoldiers was a salute to the Indian Armed Forces. Uniquely, in view of the Covid-19 restrictions, the marathon was conducted through a mobile application and runners were monitored through it. The event was conducted virtually through remote running with GPS tracking the participants. This year’s marathon had a Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC) donation feature. This gave a chance to the runners to raise charity for a cause — Wings to the Wheelchair. Pranav Adani, MD, Agro, Oil & Gas, Adani Group, said: “It is a proud moment for us to have the first of its kind Adani Ahmedabad Marathon that was conducted virtually.” He added: “The annual marathon is very special as not only did we pay tribute to our fearless soldiers but also raised support for the Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre, Kirkee, Pune.” The institution aids disabled servicemen beyond their recovery period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/marathon-raises-funds-for-disabled-soldiers/articleshow/79650777.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||No payment gateway, e-bill facility in forest dept’s maiden e-TP system||Nagpur: Contractors and businessmen are facing problems as the maiden e-transit pass (e-TP) system for sale of timber, launched in Maharashtra by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, does not have a payment gateway as well as facility of e-way bill generation. The pilot project was launched on December 4 by the CM in Nagpur circle comprising Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, and Gondia forest divisions. Maharashtra is the first state to be part of the National Transit Pass System (NTPS) launched in July 2020. “We are forced to visit the respective depot for making the payment for issuance of transit pass (TP) for timber and firewood, which defeats the purpose of having the online facility. The system should have been started after integration of the GST e-way bill portal,” said a section of contractors and timber merchants in the region. “For example, if a trader based in Kolhapur purchases some material from a depot in Nagpur, his representative needs to visit the depot for payment of the TP cost. Therefore, there is no advantage at the moment,” they said. Forest department conducts sale of timber and firewood in major depots through Mahaonline portal and payment is made through SBI payment gateway. Presently, the Mahaonline portal for the sale of timber and firewood has not been integrated with the online transit pass system of the department. PCCF (information technology & policy) MK Rao says, “Over 260 traders have obtained digital signature certificate (DSC), which is needed to obtain e-TP. There may be some technical hiccups which will be sorted out in a meeting with the software developer on Thursday. We are finalizing the payment portal issue with SBI and all issues will be resolved. It is true that we are not issuing e-way bill as we are not concerned with it.” In the online transit pass system, contractors are facing problems in registration as they are not getting OTP on their mobile phones and, therefore, it is not possible to go further to generate e-TP. Under the provisions of GST Act, 2017, new guidelines in respect of e-way bill have been issued by National Informatics Centre in 2018 for the transport of timber, firewood, or any other forest produce within the state or outside. As per GST Act, e-way bill came into existence for intra-state and inter-state transportation of goods with a threshold of Rs1 lakh against tax invoice. Without e-way bill certificate, transport of any goods costing above Rs1 lakh is an offence under the GST Act. “Therefore, forest department should have introduced facility to generate e-way bill in their system by integrating with GST e-way bill portal before inaugurating the e-TP system. Without an e-way bill, there is no use of the TP. The e-way bill needs to be verified at the check-post to confirm payment of GST amount for the material being transported,” said traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-payment-gateway-e-bill-facility-in-forest-depts-maiden-e-tp-system/articleshow/79650764.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Send water samples from channel near river for testing: HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) to send samples of water from a channel near the Amaravathy river in Karur district for testing, and also sought a response from the state government on bringing an amendment to book polluters under the Goondas Act.The court was hearing a suo motu PIL initiated based on a news report about dyeing units and industries releasing effluent waste thereby polluting the Amaravathy river. A TNPCB official submitted that currently only 61 industries including dyeing and bleaching units are functioning in the district. Of these, only three units are functioning near the river. He informed the court that TNPCB officials are closely monitoring them and no unit is discharging waste into the river and that only sewage waste from Karur municipality is being discharged.A PWD official also informed the court that the municipality is discharging sewage at several points in an abandoned channel named ‘rettai vaikkal’, adjacent to the river.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the TNPCB had only tested the samples of groundwater from the river and not samples from the channel where effluent wastes are discharged. The judges observed that it is brought to the notice of the court that effluent wastes are released in the channel and made to look as if it is sewage water.Hence, the judges directed the TNPCB to collect five samples from places where effluents are discharged and send them for testing to the TNPCB lab and King’s Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research at Chennai. The judges appointed an advocate T Mohan as amicus curiae to assist the court in the case and directed him to submit suggestions on preventing pollution in the river.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/send-water-samples-from-channel-near-river-for-testing-hc/articleshow/79651826.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Delhi||East Delhi corporation proposes 3 new taxes to ease its woes||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (EDMC) executive wing has proposed three new taxes and increase in transfer duty on sale and purchase of property in its annual budget proposals of Rs 4,647 crore for FY 2020-21. The pandemic, coupled with the Northeast Delhi riots, had forced EDMC to reduce its budgetary projections for this fiscal by around Rs 1,700 crore. However, 68.7% of the estimated income (Rs 4,365.4 crore) depends on external sources, including Rs 1,000 crore basic tax share from Delhi government and another Rs 2,000 crore from the government to cover the deficit on the basis of the finance commission’s proposal. Arguing that its revenue collection from advertisement, toll tax, parking, etc had reduced and it was becoming more challenging to complete ongoing projects, EDMC now plans to levy 5% education cess, 15% betterment tax and professional tax on working professionals. Transfer duty is proposed to be increased from the existing 2% to 3% for women and from existing 3% to 4% for others. The civic body also plans to increase electricity tax from the existing 5% to 6%. The three new taxes are together likely to yield an additional Rs 50 crore. Education cess would give Rs 10 crore. Those earning over Rs 5 lakh per annum would need to pay professional tax of Rs 100 per month and earnings over Rs 10 lakh would invite Rs 200 tax each month. This would result in Rs 10 crore revenue. Similarly, a betterment tax at 15% of property tax, which would yield Rs 30 crore, has been proposed citing enhancement of property value due to public infrastructure development. The budget didn’t contain any new major projects and 75% of the income was for payment of salaries of municipal employees. Most of the new projects are either from MP/MLA LAD funds or PPP schemes. A significant number of projects, including redevelopment of Shahdara lake, pink toilets, solar power projects and development plan for Swami Dayanand Hospital, have been recycled from last year’s budget. The new projects include three multilevel parking lots at Geeta Colony, Babarpur and Nand Nagri. Expansion of door-to-door waste collection to all 64 wards during the current fiscal and starting a 2,000 metric tonnes waste management plant at Ghonda by September 2022 were other proposals. Five new schools were proposed at a cost of Rs 20 crore. A technology park is being set up under the waste-to-wealth mission at Jafrabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/edmc-proposes-3-new-taxes-to-ease-its-woes/articleshow/79651830.cms||Paras Singh
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Baran collector on APO after PA arrested with Rs 1.4 lakh bribe||KOTA: Baran district collector Inder Singh Rao has been placed on awaiting posting order (APO) after his personal assistant was arrested with a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh. According to anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials, Inder Singh, a 2007 batch IAS officer, was found prima facie to be involved in the case after his personal assistant, Mahaveer Nagar, accepted the bribe for issuing NOC for a petrol pump. The ACB team raided the collector's office on Wednesday evening after working hours and recovered the money from the PA’s almirah. According to the press release issued by ACB, the beneficiary was asked to pay Rs 2.40 lakh for the NOC. However, Mahaveer returned Rs 1 lakh to the beneficiary while keeping the remaining amount in his office, which was recovered by the ACB team. The team conducted the raid following a complaint received on December 8. Kota ACB ASP Chandrasheel Thakur said they suspected the role of collector in the matter and a team was interrogating him. "During preliminary interrogation, the accused personal secretary claimed he accepted the bribe on the behalf of the collector," the ASP said. A search operation was on at the collector's residence late at night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/baran-collector-on-apo-afterpa-arrested-with-rs-1-4l-bribe/articleshow/79651804.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Wholesalers go on indefinite strike||Nashik: The foodgrain wholesalers, who had called for a strike on Wednesday against the Nashik Agricultural Produce Market Committee’s (APMC) decision to levy 1% cess, decided to continue their strike indefinitely after they did not get any response from the APMC. These traders, operating at the Nashik APMC, cater to 70% of the city’s grain and grocery segment. A delegation of traders, led by Prafulla Sancheti, the president of Nashik Dhannya Kirana Ghauk Vyapari Sanghatna (the wholesalers association), met Nashik APMC secretary Arun Kale and handed over him a memorandum seeking the rollback of 1% cess and instead adopt the method being used by other APMCs in the state. “We have been paying annual service charges of Rs 30,000, but the Nashik APMC has levied 1% cess instead. The profit margin in the wholesale grain and grocery business is from half to 1%. A levy of 1% cess will affect our business,” said Sancheti. A meeting of traders was held on Wednesday night to decide the future course of action. When contacted, Kale said, earlier traders had complained to the Maharashtra agriculture marketing board about the 1% cess, but the board had given the decision in favour of the Nashik APMC. “Moreover, an auditor during an audit had taken objection for not levying 1% cess as it was affecting the income of the APMC,” he said. Devidas Pingle, the chairman of Nashik APMC, has warned of confiscation of the shops at the APMC premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesalers-go-on-indefinite-strike/articleshow/79648387.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Poultry farm scam: 2 get 10 years in jail||COIMBATORE: A special court for the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishment) Act, 1997, on Wednesday convicted a 41-year-old Salem resident and her 21-year-old son for cheating 76 depositors of Rs 1.15 crore in connection with a poultry farm scam. The court sentenced G Mallika and her son G Mukesh to 10 years of imprisonment and slapped a penalty of Rs 75 lakh on them. As the accused did not appear before the court on Wednesday, special judge A S Ravi issued a non-bailable warrant against them. In March 2012, S K Ganesan, 47, his wife Mallika and their sons Mukesh and G Manoj Kumar, 19, had started two poultry companies – Raja Rajeswari Poultry Farm and Sri Raja Rajeswari Poultry Farm – at Perundurai in Erode district. “The firms offered 375 chicks and fodder for Rs 1 lakh deposit. They promised to give Rs 7,000 per month as maintenance charge and Rs 8,000 as yearly incentive. The investors were told that they will get back the deposit by the end of third year,” a judicial source said. As many as 76 depositors invested Rs 1.15 crore. But the owners failed to fulfil their promise. Subsequently, V P Nachimuthu, 64, a resident of Bhavani in Erode district filed a complaint with the economic offences wing (EOW) of the police in November 2012. Police booked all the accused under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and 5 of TNPID act, and arrested them. Ganesan died two months ago. The case against Manoj Kumar was transferred to the juvenile court in Erode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poultry-farm-scam-2-get-10-years-in-jail/articleshow/79650755.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Income tax raid at builder’s office in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Income tax department sleuths searched Chettinad Builders Pvt Ltd at Race Course in the city on Wednesday as part of raids being conducted at places including Chennai and Karur. The sleuths, attached to the Chennai unit, along with officials from the Coimbatore unit, reached the company around 8am. “The raid is conducted following tax evasion complaints,” said a source privy to the operation, which is expected to continue for a few days. A month ago, the department has conducted a three-day-long raid at the residence of DMK’s Coimbatore west district in-charge R Krishnan alias Paiyar Goundar at Kalapatti. It was part of searches conducted at 22 premises of a group of educational institutions and its affiliates across the state following tax evasion complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/income-tax-raid-at-builders-office/articleshow/79650754.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu reports 147 Covid-19 cases, central districts 107||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 147 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Wednesday. The deaths were recorded in Madurai and Theni. Meanwhile the central region recorded 107 fresh cases taking the tally to 71,767, which include 911 active cases. The region also recorded 69,952 recoveries. With no casualties, the death toll of the eight districts remained at 904. Among the fresh cases in the region, Madurai (37) recorded the highest, followed by Dindigul (25) and Kanyakumari (22). Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi recorded two cases each, the lowest in the south, followed by Sivagangai (6), Theni (12), Virudhunagar (12), Tuticorin (14) and Tirunelveli (15). The number of active cases in the region has dropped to 1,232 from 1,251 for the second straight day on Tuesday. Ramanathapuram (33) has the lowest number of active cases, followed by Theni (51), Sivagangai (60) and Tenkasi (89). The fall in the number of cases in Nagappattinam, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Trichy has brought down the fresh cases in the central region on Wednesday. Nagappattinam and Thanjavur districts each reported 21 cases, the highest in the region. With regard to active cases, Thanjavur continued to be on top with 16,659 cases, while Nagappattinam recorded 7,807. Tiruvarur and Trichy came next with 18 and 17 cases, which have 10,620 and 13,667 active cases. Karur registered 15 cases making its tally to 4,940. Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai recorded fresh cases in single digits. Perambalur recorded one case after many days taking the tally to 2,247, which include four active cases, the lowest in the region. Ariyalur reported five cases taking its tally to 4,598 cases, which include 28 active cases. Pudukottai registered nine fresh cases pushing its tally to 11,229, which include 90 active cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-147-covid-19-cases-central-districts-107/articleshow/79651859.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Petrol & diesel price hikes fuel widespread anger||Nashik: The sharp rise in petrol and diesel prices has sparked anger among all sections of the society in Nashik. Farmers, businessmen, industrialists and the general public have said the rising fuel prices are burning a hole in their pockets. On Wednesday, the petrol price rose to Rs 90.95 per litre and diesel price was recorded at Rs 79.65 per litre in the city — 21% and 24% rise, respectively, since March. According to the office bearer of the petrol dealers’ association, high Central and state tax rates are to be blamed for the hikes. The daily price change method is also leading to a hike in prices. Farmers said the cost of cultivating crops has gone up as they need to purchase diesel for tractors and water pumps. Industrialists, meanwhile, are hit by increased transportation costs. Even the salaried people in Nashik, who have suffered pay cuts due to lockdown, said the rising fuel prices are adding to their financial woes. “The monthly budget for my car’s petrol has now increased by Rs 450. I can’t avoid these expenses as I have to commute between office and home. I have had to cut back on outings with my family members,” said Abhishek Kale, a private employee. “Our salaries were already reduced by 20% due to the pandemic. The nearly 20% rise in fuel prices over the past few months has strained our budget,” said Amol Kulkarni, who works for a private company. “Almost all farming activities are done using tractor-mounted equipment. The rise in fuel prices has increased even the ploughing cost. Earlier, I used to pay Rs 1,200 to plough and pulverize each acre. Now, I have to pay Rs 1,800,” said Nivrutti Nyaharkar, a farmer. “Transporting cost to carrying agricultural produce to APMCs has also increased from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,500,” he added. M G Kulkarni, an industrialist, said, “In February, it used to cost me Rs 5,500 to transport four tonne of goods from my factory in Sinnar to Mumbai. Now, I am paying Rs 8,500 for the same.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/petrol-diesel-price-hikes-fuel-widespread-anger/articleshow/79648445.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Many temporary night shelters for homeless ready, more on their way||NEW DELHI: Temporary night shelters that were set up by Delhi government are now functional and 250 more such facilities will soon come up to accommodate the capital’s homeless population. Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which functions under Delhi government and manages night shelters in the capital, has also deployed 16 rescue teams since last month to bring homeless people to its 212 permanent shelters. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said that temporary shelters had become functional at locations such as All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “This is just the beginning and we are going to set up over 250 more temporary shelters this winter to ensure space for everyone,” Rai said. Rai said last winter DUSIB had set up around 70 temporary night shelters, which along with its permanent shelters, had catered to around 11,000 homeless people. “Last year, however, there was no Covid-19. That is why we are setting up more shelters this winter,” Rai said, adding that Covid arrangements such as hand sanitisers had been taken care of. While usually two meals were provided at the shelters till last winter, this time provisions have been made for three meals, including breakfast and tea. DUSIB has also been asked to ensure six-feet distance between individuals to avoid the spread of Covid infection at the shelters. Apart from meals, beds and other amenities that DUSIB provides at these centres, additional medical teams will be deployed this winter for health check-up of the homeless. DUSIB started its Winter Action Plan 2020-21 for the homeless people earlier than usual this winter and the plan will be in place till March 15, 2021. In comparison with the 60-70 pagoda tents that were being set up every year as temporary winter shelters, more than 250 shelters are coming up this winter, keeping in mind the need for social distancing due to the corona pandemic. These pagoda tents, which are fire retardant and waterproof, will have beds and mattresses, apart from other facilities. The temporary shelters are being set up at locations where homeless population concentrations are high. As the mercury started plummeting earlier in the capital this winter, DUSIB deployed its rescue teams to bring homeless people to its night shelters even before the scheduled date for the winter action plan to come in force – November 15. DUSIB has also requested people to download its Rain Basera mobile application from Google Play Store, on which they can upload photos of any area with homeless people they want to help. The 16 rescue teams of DUSIB will then bring these homeless people to the closest shelters. A DUSIB helpline number will also remain operational 24x7 through the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/many-temporary-night-shelters-for-homeless-ready-more-on-their-way/articleshow/79651868.cms||Sidharatha Roy
December 10, 2020||Trichy||South Tamil Nadu reports 147 Covid-19 cases, central districts 107||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 147 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Wednesday. The deaths were recorded in Madurai and Theni. Meanwhile the central region recorded 107 fresh cases taking the tally to 71,767, which include 911 active cases. The region also recorded 69,952 recoveries. With no casualties, the death toll of the eight districts remained at 904. Among the fresh cases in the region, Madurai (37) recorded the highest, followed by Dindigul (25) and Kanyakumari (22). Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi recorded two cases each, the lowest in the south, followed by Sivagangai (6), Theni (12), Virudhunagar (12), Tuticorin (14) and Tirunelveli (15). The number of active cases in the region has dropped to 1,232 from 1,251 for the second straight day on Tuesday. Ramanathapuram (33) has the lowest number of active cases, followed by Theni (51), Sivagangai (60) and Tenkasi (89). The fall in the number of cases in Nagappattinam, Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Trichy has brought down the fresh cases in the central region on Wednesday. Nagappattinam and Thanjavur districts each reported 21 cases, the highest in the region. With regard to active cases, Thanjavur continued to be on top with 16,659 cases, while Nagappattinam recorded 7,807. Tiruvarur and Trichy came next with 18 and 17 cases, which have 10,620 and 13,667 active cases. Karur registered 15 cases making its tally to 4,940. Perambalur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai recorded fresh cases in single digits. Perambalur recorded one case after many days taking the tally to 2,247, which include four active cases, the lowest in the region. Ariyalur reported five cases taking its tally to 4,598 cases, which include 28 active cases. Pudukottai registered nine fresh cases pushing its tally to 11,229, which include 90 active cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-147-covid-19-cases-central-districts-107/articleshow/79657880.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||Pay fine or face action: CP to traffic violators||Nagpur: With dues of unpaid challans issued for various traffic violations in the city mounting, commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar on Wednesday warned the violators to clear their outstanding fine through MahaTrafficApp to evade any further stringent action. The outstanding traffic challan dues of entire Maharashtra is around Rs600 crore, while the unpaid traffic fine in Nagpur city is around Rs7.83 crore. The top cop said a special drive would be launched to nab the violators who have defaulted on paying the traffic fine. Currently, the traffic police, led by DCP (traffic) Sarang Awad, have launched a special drive against four-wheelers with tinted glass, fancy number plates and autorickshaws ferrying more than three passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-fine-or-face-action-cp-to-traffic-violators/articleshow/79650663.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
December 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Protesting temple staff to boycott local body polls||KOZHIKODE: Local body institutions are considered to be temples of grassroots-level democracy and for them elections are nothing less than a festival. But, this year, a section of the priests and temple staff under Malabar Devaswom Board (MDB) have decided to boycott local body polls to protest against the neglect show by government and MDB towards their month-long Satyagraha. The joint agitation samiti along with Kerala State Temple Employees Coordination Committee and Akhila Kerala Santhi Kshema Union have been staging a relay Satyagraha before MDB headquarters from the first week of November raising long-pending demands, including parity of pay and clearing salary dues in temples. The joint agitation council convener VV Sreenivasan said that temple staff will skip polls as its demands were not even heard by government, MDB or political parties. Despite the high court calling for reasonable remuneration and parity of pay for priests and other temple staff in Malabar way back in 1994, it hasn’t been implemented. Successive governments appointed several commissions to look into the issues faced by temple employees under MDB and yet no recommendation has been implemented, he added. “Still MDB, which has 1,300 temples under it, pays salaries classifying temples as per the income generated by the place of worship which is unjust and discriminatory,” he said. Sreenivasan said that even the measly salaries for staff in C and D category temples have not been paid for months even as income from offerings at temples had also stopped due to the pandemic. “The monthly salaries of some of the cleaning staff in D category temples are as low as Rs 2,500 and that too is due for many months. Salaries haven’t been revised for past 12 years. We are saddened that not even one political party came forward to support us. Around 2000 temple staff are supporting the agitation,” said Sreenivasan. Meanwhile, MDB commissioner K Murali said the board had taken a considerate stand on all key issues raised by the staff but policy decisions have to be taken by the government. “We have recommended salary revision of employees and the board passed a resolution urging a comprehensive bill in this regard. Also, in view of the difficulties faced by staff during Covid‐19, government had paid salary advance of Rs 10,000 along with Rs 2,500 from the welfare fund to each employee,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/protesting-temple-staff-to-boycott-polls/articleshow/79649381.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jamshedpur||Steel cities face partial impact of Bharat Bandh||JAMSHEDPUR/BOKARO: The Bharat Bandh called by farmer unions on Tuesday largely passed off peacefully in the steel towns of the state. In Jharkhand, the ruling JMM, Congress and RJD hit the streets in large numbers to enforce the bandh. In East Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan, the bandh evoked mixed response. Trade and industry bodies said the strike had a moderate impact as some shops — particularly vehicle showrooms, electronic appliance and jewellery stores — usually remain closed on every Tuesday. “About 50% shops do not operate on Tuesdays, hence the impact of the bandh was felt by the remaining half,” Vijay Anand Moonka, the vice president (trade and commerce) of the Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI), said, adding that the bandh resulted in loss of business running into several lakhs but it would be difficult to specify the figure. The All India Bank Employees Union (AIBEU) leader in Jamshedpur, Heera Harkney, said several government and private bank branches in Bistupur, Sakchi, Kadma, Adityapur, Golmuri and Telco were shut down by bandh supporters but branches in the rural areas remained closed on their own. “The impact of the Bharat Bandh on banking transaction, however, was marginal to moderate,” said the banker. Ancillaries of Tata Motors in the Adityapur industrial area experienced partial impact as factories reported moderate attendance in the morning shift but usual attendance during the afternoon shift. “Production was affected in the morning shift due to the bandh,” said the general secretary of the Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA), Santosh Khetan. The railways said that barring one instance, the movement of trains was normal in the Chakradharpur division. “Bandh activists blocked the tracks near Jhinkpani station for about 30 minutes in the early hours,” said senior divisional commercial manager Manish Kumar Pathak. The markets in Sonari and Mango operated as usual in the morning but bandh supporters enforced the bandh later in the day. Auto-rickshaws, long-distance and city buses remained off the streets in Jamshedpur and Adityapur. “The impact of the bandh was felt more in the rural areas of Ghatshila, Musaboni, Chandil and Seraikela,” an inter-district bus operator, Mahesh Singh, said. No incidence of violence was reported from the two districts till late in the evening. In Bokaro, JMM workers tried to disrupt railway traffic by blocking the tracks but the attempt was foiled by RPF jawans at Bokaro Railway Station who acted with alacrity. Mantu Yadav, the city president of JMM, along with his supporters, had attempted to block the Patna-Ranchi Jan Shatabdi Express. The chief commercial inspector of Bokaro railway station, Chandrabhushan, said that the train departed at the right time. JMM workers also blocked the national highways at many places. District Congress president Manzoor Ansari, along with his party workers and those from the RJD and CPI, took out processions and enforced closure of shops at Nayamod in Bokaro. The market areas in Chas and Bokaro felt partial impact of Tuesday’s bandh. Sources said that production in Bokaro Steel Plant remained normal on Tuesday. Banks and post offices also functioned normally, while the Bokaro Mall remained closed in the first half.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-cities-face-partial-impact-of-bharat-bandh/articleshow/79630760.cms||B Sridhar
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Summer onion prices rise by 44% at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of summer onions increased by 44% to Rs 2,600 per quintal while the kharif variety by 15% to Rs 3,100 at the Lasalgaon APMC on Wednesday. The average price of summer onions was recorded at Rs 1,800 per quintal and kharif Rs 2,700 at the market on the last working day on Monday. The auction was not held on Tuesday due to the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers and opposition parties against the farm laws. According to APMC officials, the average wholesale price increased due to a drop in supply. The summer onions arriving in the market are around seven months old as they were harvested in April and May. Their quality has deteriorated and they are fetching low rates as compared to the fresh kharif onions. On the contrary, the kharif onions have a shelf life of less than a month, forcing farmers to sell them at the prevailing market rates. “Farmers are still bringing summer onions from their storages and are expected to continue to do that for a couple of weeks more. The arrival of kharif onions is, however, yet to pick up,” said APMC officials. “The rain badly damaged the kharif plantation. Moreover, the plantation was also delayed due to the late rain. We are expecting the arrival of kharif onions to increase by the end of this month,” said APMC officials. According to the officials, the average wholesale onion prices are expected to remain in the range of Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,500 per quintal over the next fortnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/summer-onion-prices-rise-by-44-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/79648463.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 10, 2020||Surat||Three children drown in Tapi River near Umara||Surat: Three children drowned after they fell into the Tapi river while playing near Umara village on Wednesday evening. While the bodies of two children were fished out from the river, search for the third kid— a six-year-old girl — was still on. Officials of the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that they had received a call at about 4pm regarding the incident.  The rescue teams were able to fish out bodies of Sunita Thapa (10) and Pradip Thapa (8) —residents of City Gram society in Parle Point, after more than two hours of search operation. Sources said that the children were playing near the Tapi river embankment when Pradip, who went too close to the river slipped into it. In a bid to save him, his sister, Sunita plunged into the river followed the six-year-old girl. Another boy aged about 10 years ran away and informed his parent. Maruti Sonawane, fire officer told TOI, “We have found two bodies. We brought the rescue boat and searched for the six-year-old girl, but could not find her.” Sonawane added, “Till 8pm, we were unable to find missing girl. Since it was pitch dark, we have decided to suspend the search operation and resume it on Thursday morning.” All the children belong to a Nepali family living in the Ambaji Mandir near Umara and City Gram society in Parle Point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-children-drown-in-tapi-river-near-umara/articleshow/79649027.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||DMK targeting Jayalalithaa to cover up unrest in party: Minister||MADURAI: The DMK is speaking ill of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa to conceal the trouble within that party due to dynastic politics, but the AIADMK will not tolerate any move to demean her, said minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar. He was speaking at an event to provide relief measures to 59 people whose houses were damaged in the recent rain in the presence of district collector T Anbazhagan and Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan. He said inundation and flooding were the only incidents witnessed throughout the state during the two cyclones this year. Major damage and loss of life could be avoided due to the action taken by the state government. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has sought funds to the tune of Rs 3,700 crore from the central government for restoration works, of which Rs 1,200 crore has been provided. The state government was not waiting for central funds to come and providing funds from its state disaster fund. ``DMK president M K Stalin is not aware of this’’, he said, adding that rain-related accidents should not be politicised. Assessment of rain damage in Madurai district was under way. The CM being a farmer had reviewed the farm acts well and the farmers had also accepted them, he said. Meanwhile, milk and dairy development minister K T Rajendra Bhalaji told reporters in Virudhunagar that M K Stalin was indulging in cheap politics by speaking ill of the CM. “He thinks he will gain recognition by speaking ill of the CM and instigating those below him to do the same,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dmk-targeting-jaya-to-cover-up-unrest-in-party-min/articleshow/79651921.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||Sensex races past 46k on back of foreign funds||Mumbai: Led by foreign funds, across-the-board buying in blue chips on Wednesday pushed the sensex to above the 46,000 mark for the first time in its history. The index closed at 46,104 points, its highest ever. The session’s gain came on the back of strong buying in HDFC Bank, RIL, Infosys, Kotak Bank and Asian Paints, and the Rs 182.7 lakh crore market cap made investors richer by Rs 1.25 lakh crore. On the NSE, the nifty hit a new high at 13,500 points as it closed at 13,529, up 136 points. In addition to the strong foreign fund buying, “hopes of vaccine and stimulus packages in India and developed nations are raising the spirit of the equity market”, said Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services.On Wednesday too, all the three indices on Wall Street scaled new highs. Since October, a host of global markets have been hitting new highs on hopes of introduction of Covid-19 vaccines, even as the world’s tally of infections has risen. In addition to Dow Jones, S&P 500, Nasdaq, Sensex and Nifty, in Japan the Nikkei index is now at a 29-year high while in Brazil, Ibovespa is at a life high. On Dalal Street, the day’s gains were also helped by a Rs 3,564-crore net buying by foreign funds, BSE data showed. The rally also lifted investors’ wealth to an all-time high with BSE’s market capitalization now at Rs 182.7 lakh crore. However, the rally to a new peak for the index came despite a Rs 2,493-crore net outflow. The sensex’s journey from 45K to 46K took just three days, the second fastest 1,000-point rally for the index in its history. In the last one month the sensex has gained a little over 8%, mainly on the back of a Rs 79,000-crore, or nearly $11 billion net buying by foreign funds, official data showed. During the same period, BSE’s market cap has also jumped by Rs 18.3 lakh crore. Although the unabated bull rally has made investors richer, it is also making some cautious. According to Abhishek Chinchalkar, head of education, Fyers, a tech-driven stock broking firm, while the overall trend continues to be bullish, one needs to now adopt a cautious stance given how steep the advance has got in the past several sessions. “Also, today’s advance in the markets has been accompanied by a 5% uptick in VIX (volatility index), indicating that nervousness could be starting to creep in,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sensex-races-past-46k-on-back-of-foreign-funds/articleshow/79652814.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Ministers to resolve water pact row of NMC & WRD||Nashik: A meeting of senior state ministers is expected to resolve the lingering dispute over the water agreement between Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and water resources department (WRD). The signing of the water agreement between NMC and WRD has been pending for the past decade. The WRD has asked Nashik civic body to pay re-establishment cost of Rs 138 crore due to rise in NMC’s quota for water. Moreover, it has also asked the civic body to pay the water tax dues before signing the water agreement. The NMC has argued that it would not pay re-establishment cost since it is recycling 65% of total water that the WRD provides. The WRD is also levying 100% penalty on water tax for not signing water agreement and the dues are estimated at Rs 29 crore. The NMC has made it clear that it is paying tax regularly and hence, there is no question of paying the penalty. Hence, the issue is now to be settled at the state government level. Three ministers – WRD minister Jayant Patil, urban development minister Eknath Shinde and district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal will hold a joint meeting to resolve the issue,” said a top official from NMC. NMC and WRD officials recently had a joint meeting here. The WRD officials had clearly told NMC that they would not sign a water agreement with the NMC until the tax dues are paid. “We pay water tax amounting to Rs 1 crore per month on an average regularly to the WRD for lifting raw water from Gangapur, Mukane and Darna dams. We are paying water taxes at the basic rate of Rs 3 per 10,000 litres of water,” an official said, adding that the WRD was charging Rs 6 per 10,000 litres, including a penalty of Rs 3 per 10,000 litres due to not signing of the water agreement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ministers-to-resolve-water-pact-row-of-nmc-wrd/articleshow/79648465.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Restore 27 temples in Qutub complex: Civil suit||NEW DELHI: A civil suit has been filed in a court claiming that Quwwat ul-Islam Mosque situated inside the Qutub Minar complex in Mehrauli was actually a temple complex before it was dismantled and the same should be restored for worship. The suit contended that it had been filed to “preserve and protect the religious and cultural heritage of India” and exercise the “right to religion guaranteed by Articles 25 and 26 of Constitution of India”. According to it, the same could be achieved by restoring 27 Hindu and Jain temples with respective deities, which were “dismantled, desecrated and damaged under the command and orders of Qutubuddin Aibak”, the founder of Delhi Sultanate. The suit has been filed on behalf of principal Jain deity Tirthankar Lord Rishabh Dev and deity Lord Vishnu through their “next friends”, Hari Shankar Jain and Ranjana Agnihotri, respectively. The suit, filed by advocate Vishnu S Jain, urged the court to declare that these principal deities, along with Lord Ganesh, Lord Shiva, Goddess Gauri, God Sun, and Lord Hanuman and other deities of these 27 temples, have the right to be restored and worshipped with rites and rituals, performance of regular puja within the original temple complex in South West Delhi district. A decree “be passed in the nature of mandatory injunction, directing the trust, to be created by the central government, to manage the affairs of 27 Hindu and Jain temples with Iron Pillar, in accordance with scheme of administration framed by the central government”, it demanded. The suit also sought directions for restraining the defendants — Union of India, Archaeological Survey of India through its director general and the superintending archaeologist, Delhi circle — permanently from interfering in making necessary repair work, raising construction and making arrangement for worship and darshan of deities in accordance with sections 16 and 19 of Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restore-27-temples-in-qutub-complex-civil-suit/articleshow/79651928.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Pumpkins rot on fields as price plummets to 50p/kg from Rs 15||MADURAI: The pumpkin farmers in Theni who hoped to make the best of the Sabarimala season are crestfallen as pumpkins that have grown well are selling only at 50 paise per kg, from Rs 10-15 per kg, and they let the vegetable rot in the fields. A Thavamani of Allinagaram in Theni district said that he had cultivated pumpkins in five plots of 60 cents each. “I was overjoyed, when the vines started flowering and the fruits began developing well with the timely rain. But now the traders are asking them for 50 paise/kg, which is too low,” he said. Around 100 farmers have cultivated pumpkins in more than 50 acres in Allinagaram, and they say that the price is the lowest ever in recent times. P Mathavan, a farmer from Allinagaram, says that he spent about Rs 20,000 on an acre for the cultivation of the 90-day crop. “We were looking forward to the Sabarimala season, when the hotels in Kerala buy vegetables in huge quantity every year. But this year the e-pass system for pilgrims has hit the business badly. He says that he would lose five tonnes of his produce due to the price fall. “I will have to pay men Rs 400 per day for picking and transporting, and women workers each Rs 200 a day for picking, which is not feasible,” he said. The lowest price at which the farmers can sell their produce is Rs 5/kg. Meanwhile, the farmers’ markets in Madurai continued to sell a slice of white pumpkin for Rs 5 to Rs 7 per kilogram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pumpkins-rot-on-fields-as-price-plummets-to-50p/kg-from-rs-15/articleshow/79651939.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Jalgaon dist’s recovery rate improves from 88% to 96.8%||Nashik: The recovery rate of Covid-19 patients in Jalgaon district has further improved from 88% in the last week of October to 96.8% now.The district, which was once the epicentre of the Covid in Maharashtra, has been able to curb the spread of the virus due to the efforts of various stakeholders. District collector Abhijit Raut has been overseeing and monitoring all Covid-related activities in the district. The district officials said for over a month, the number of cases reported per day has been in double digits unlike the earlier trend of triple digits.“The number of patients recovering daily has been more than the number of cases reported per day for over a month. The deaths have also reduced significantly. There have been several days in the last month, where there were no deaths reported,” said the officials.District health officials that over 3.15 lakh people have been tested so far. As many as 53,100 patients have recovered, 427 are currently undergoing treatment and 1,306 have succumbed to Covid.“In the last five months, we have been undertaking aggressive testing to detect and treat Covid patients early. This has not only helped in curbing the spread of the virus but also improve our recovery rate. But we are not lowering our guards at all,” added officials. In a new initiative, the district administration has started testing people who come into close contact with a large number of people like hawkers, vendors, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-dists-recovery-rate-improves-from-88-to-96-8/articleshow/79648494.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 10, 2020||Madurai||‘Consider nature of job while prescribing educational qualifications’||MADURAI: Public administration is suffering due to selection of higher qualified candidates for lower posts as officials are unable to extract work from such candidates, the Madras high court has observed. It suggested the state government to consider the nature of the job while prescribing educational qualifications and criteria for selection to various posts. The court was hearing a petition filed by M Vijayalakshmi who challenged the rejection order and sought appointment as junior engineer (civil) in Chennai Metro Rail Limited. The court dismissed the petition on the ground that the petitioner was an engineering graduate and only diploma was prescribed as a qualification for recruitment to the post. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that lakhs of youth are unemployed in our nation and youths with minimum qualification are longing to secure public employment through an open competitive process. In the event of not prescribing the maximum qualification, the opportunities for youths with minimum qualification would be taken away. “Candidates, who are possessing higher qualifications, may have many opportunities to apply for various posts. However, those opportunities may not be available to those who are possessing minimum educational qualifications,” observed the judge. The judge noted that candidates who possess masters, engineering degrees are appointed to posts such as office assistants and sweepers. The administration is now struggling to extract work from those higher qualified candidates. The judge observed that failure in the recruitment process can never be tolerated, as the appointees are receiving decent salary from the taxpayers’ money and therefore, the authorities are duty bound to ensure that they appointed perform their duties. The situation requires a drastic change in the matter of prescription of minimum and maximum educational qualifications and the public administration, as a whole, is bound to revisit the entire situation, in order to uphold the Constitutional perspectives, the judge observed. Hence, the judge suo motu impleaded the chief secretary to take appropriate decision in the matter of recruitment to the public posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/consider-nature-of-job-while-prescribing-edu-qualifications/articleshow/79651976.cms||Kaushik Kannan
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Diocese mag article irks UDF, church regrets it||Kottayam: An article by an aide of the late Kerala Congress (M) chairman, K M Mani, in a publication brought out by the Palai diocese of the Syro-Malabar Church has caused a big controversy in the wake of the local-body elections. Kurias Kumbalakuzhy, in the article which appeared in ‘Deepanalam’, slams opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala for his alleged role in the bar bribery scam involving Mani. The author says the vigilance probe ordered by the LDF government into Chennithala’s role in the scandal is ‘poetic justice’ as the Congress leader was instrumental in torturing Mani with the bribery allegation. This, according to Kumbalakuzhy, led to the deterioration of the health of the late leader, culminating in his death. The publication is widely considered the official mouthpiece of the church and the article, appearing as it did just ahead of the ongoing election, has irked many. While the Jose K Mani-led faction of KC (M), which is part of LDF, views it as a godsend, the article has proved to be a headache for UDF. “K M Mani was disturbed as a vigilance probe against a veteran leader like him, who was also the senior-most cabinet member, was ordered without any deliberations. If Chennithala had not issued a quick verification against Mani and the probe was delayed the case would not have taken the course it did and Mani sir would not have died so soon,” Kumbalakuzhy says in the article. The church, however, has distanced itself from the article saying it does not agree with the author’s views. It said the article appeared in a magazine which focuses on art and culture. Church PRO Joseph Thadathil said the church does not seek to use the magazine to set political agendas. “We have asked the editor to be more careful in future. We have asked him to read articles carefully, irrespective of author, before publishing them,” he said. “The sentiment expressed in the article could be genuine but when it appears during an election time it can create difficulties for some. The church does not want that,” Fr Thadathil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/diocese-mag-article-irks-udf-church-regrets-it/articleshow/79649446.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Hunt for main supplier of swords is on||Nashik: As the 70 swords seized by Malegaon and Dhule police were brought illegally from Rajasthan, the north Maharashtra police have started a search to nab the main supplier. Pratap Dighavkar, the Nashik range inspector general of police, told TOI, “These swords were made in Rajasthan and smuggled to Maharashtra for sale. The selling price of each sword is around Rs 1,500-2,000.” He said the main supplier is absconding. “Our police teams are working overtime to nab him,” said Dighavkar refusing to share any more details about the kingpin at this point. Malegaon police intercepted an auto at Pawarwadi on Mumbai-Agra national highway on December 1 and arrested three people. Forty swords were seized from them. On December 4, Dhule police confiscated 30 swords and arrested two people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hunt-for-main-supplier-of-swords-is-on/articleshow/79648501.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
December 10, 2020||Kozhikode||‘Raveendran skipping ED summons to hide secrets’||KOZHIKODE: The opposition on Wednesday sharpened its attack on the LDF government saying that Pinarayi Vijayan’s additional private secretary C M Raveendran has been evading interrogation as he has many things to hide. Raveendran, who was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate, was hospitalized on Tuesday, apparently because of post-Covid health issues. UDF and BJP leaders tried to put the CPM on the defensive saying that Raveendran was avoiding questioning because he has secrets to hide. Addressing a meet-the-leader programme organised by the Calicut Press Club, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said enough security should be provided to Raveendran as in the case of Swapna Suresh, the accused in the gold smuggling case. Many VIPs will be in trouble if Raveendran is interrogated and that is why his appearance before the ED has been postponed, he said. “Raveendran should be examined by a team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences,” Chennithala said. He added that the government is trying to sabotage the investigation into the gold smuggling case and asked the government to divulge the name of the VIP referred to by Swapna in her statement. “People have the right to know about the person who is involved in the reverse hawala,” he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said Raveendran’s life is in danger as he is the ‘storehouse of secrets’ of many VIPs, including the chief minister. Addressing a news conference in Kannur, he said Raveendran is employing the same strategy used by M Shivashankar when confronted with the ED. About the threat to Swapna’s life, Mullappally said the chief minister will be responsible if anything happens to her. The Congress leader alleged that Pinarayi has stalled the investigation into the leaking Swapna’s voice message. BJP state president K Surendran said Raveendran is staging a drama with the help of the health minister K K Shailaja. Addressing a news conference in Kannur, he said medical colleges have turned into asylums for criminals. Meanwhile, BJP national executive council member P K Krishnadas told reporters in Kasaragod that the chief minister himself is behind the move to issue threats to Swapna. He demanded that the officers who threatened her should be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/raveendran-skipping-ed-summons-to-hide-secrets/articleshow/79649450.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Striped hyena found dead in Peth||Nashik: The forest department on Wednesday morning found the carcass of a striped two-and-a-half-year-old female hyena at a village in the Peth taluka. According to one health department official, the carcass was taken to a veterinary centre for autopsy. “According to the autopsy report, the animal had not received any internal injuries. There is no vehicular traffic at the location where the animal was found dead,” he said. The forest department officials believe that the hyena could have collided with a stone or any other object.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/striped-hyena-found-dead-in-peth/articleshow/79765263.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 10, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city records 30% rise in active cases in past 10 days||Nashik: The number of active cases has increased by 30% in the past 10 days as the number of active cases rose to 1,935 on Tuesday — from 1,497 cases on November 28.The increase in the number of cases reported per day in the last few days has led to the rise in the number of active patients. Also, the number of cases is higher than the number of patients recovering per day.The recovery rate of the city was 96% between November 11 and December 5 but now it has reduced to 95.82%.The officials of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) said there has been a marginal rise in the number of cases and all precautions are being to taken to contain the infection.“About a fortnight ago, there were 178 cases reported per day, and now it has increased to 218 cases per day,” the officials said.NMC officials said as 85% of the total patients are asymptomatic, they can be treated at their homes if they have facilities of being isolated in their houses. Of the 1,935 active patients, 55% of them are being treated at their homes.“We have taken all the measures in view of the second wave. We have reserved over 4,500 Covid beds in civic and private hospitals. Over 80% of them are already vacant,” added the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-records-30-rise-in-active-cases-in-past-10-days/articleshow/79648508.cms||Tushar Pawar
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Seropositivity in Ahmedabad rose by 0.96% in 3 months||AHMEDABAD: The post-Diwali “record breaking” spike Covid-19 cases is yet to ebb from public memory. As the city was head into Diwali in the second week of October, an important serology survey for Covid antibodies conducted by the civic body on 22,492 Amdavadis, warned that just 21% of the young population, those between 10 and 30 years old, had antibodies for the SARS-Cov 2 virus. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) took blood samples from 6,157 youngsters in that age group. What health officials found was that among 114 children between 0 and 9 years old, seroprevealence of antibodies was 32.5%. “The higher seroprevealnce of antibodies in children is also a matter of investigation, so we know they are getting infected,” said a senior AMC official. Serology tests indicates that people have antibodies in their blood or had a history of infection, which means they had contracted the disease and recovered quietly. In those older than 30 years, the presence of antibodies increased with age, and is at between 26% and 31% in the population. The study further claims, “This may be because of more asymptomatic or mild infections among young individuals when compared to the elderly who are more likely to be symptomatic and have a higher severity of the disease and for a longer duration.” In terms of overall seroprevalence in the city, there was no encouraging indication. The study found that seroprevalence saw a marginal increase of 0.96 of a percentage point — from 23.24% to 24.2% — from the serosurvey carried out in the second half of August. An interesting point was seropositivity among health care workers. Seroprevalence among 1,738 health care workers was 21%, which is lower than the overall city’s results. “Health care workers included in our study are not those working at Covid care hospitals but involved in field duties from urban health centres. So, these health care workers are at low risk compared to those at Covid hospitals,” the survey states. Among the 1,708 individuals who had Covid, antibodies were found in 54.51%. Seropositivity was 54.78% among women and 54.3% among men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/seropositivity-in-city-rose-by-0-96-in-3-months/articleshow/79650814.cms||Paul John
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s micro-contained societies drop to 174||AHMEDABAD: With just four more new societies, three of which were from western part of the city, being added to the micro-containment list, the number of micro-contained societies has come down to just 174. In the first week of December this number had increased to over 300. In the last two days, only four societies were declared as micro-contained. On Wednesday, no society was added to the list. Of the four societies, Siddhachakra Apartment is in Usmanpura while one Shlok Parisar was from Gota and Shantiniketan apartment was from Thaltej — all three in the western part of the city. Just one, Ganesh Park in Isanpur, was from South Zone of the city. Officials in AMC said that the low number of societies in micro-containment has raised doubts as to whether the AMC has stopped declaring the areas as micro-contained. Pointing out an example he said that in a house in Bodakdev Ward there were three members who had tested positive. But the AMC has did not clear the area of this society as micro-contained and even did not put stickers outside the house. The officer said that the city continues to receive more than 260 cases daily, but if one looks at the areas under micro-containment it gives an impression that there is almost no infection or its threat in the city. However, a health officer defended the move and said that the cases are sporadic in the city and they are not coming from one cluster or an area. “A society or a section is micro-contained only if there are three or more cases from a specific floor or a portion of the society. According to AMC, the city now has 2,568 active cases which was over 3,200 active cases in mid November. On Wednesday the West Zone including areas of Thaltej, Gota, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia had the highest 474 active cases followed by 459 cases in Ranip, Naranpura, Navrangpura, Paldi and Usamanpura. The areas of Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Bopal, Sarkhej had 422 active cases in. While the contribution of other zones includes North (297 active cases), East Zone (273 cases), South zone (386 cases) and Central Zone 257 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-micro-contained-societies-drop-to-174/articleshow/79650875.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 10, 2020||Madurai||All is fine sans mask in Madurai as authorities go easy on violators||MADURAI: No strict implementation of rules by the authorities to collect fines from violators has made public in Madurai district go lethargic on wearing masks and throw caution to the winds, after the easing of lockdown restrictions. Madurai district administration was one of the first districts to impose Rs200 fine from June 13 for not wearing masks in public. However, all the measures have taken a beating and the district administration which kept giving updated reports of the fines collected, on a weekly basis, till former collector Dr T G Vinauy was in office, has stopped doing so now. Sources said that the administration was no longer keeping track of the fines, and that various departments were maintaining them. Earlier, fines collected by the city and rural police, corporation staff and flying squads constituted by the collector were consolidated by the district administration. The fines fetched more than Rs 2 crore in September. However, now there is no compliance to safety precautions by the public and the authorities have also stopped imposing fines strictly. “I forgot to wear my helmet and mask, but i was fined only for not wearing the helmet,” said S Raju of Gomathypuram V P Manikandan, a social activist said that the government should now create awareness on the importance of wearing masks. “People seem to think that the disease is no more, but, it is now that caution should be exerted to the highest level,” he said. A police officer from the city police said that they continue to book cases for mask violations. The automated mask violation detection system using a special software launched in a couple of station limits is also in operation. But, it is becoming difficult to implement the rule because too many people are violating it, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/all-is-fine-sans-mask-in-madurai-as-authorities-go-easy-on-violators/articleshow/79652016.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Four more pairs of special trains announced for south Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: The railway board has approved two pairs of special trains and two pairs of festival specials to the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Fare of the special trains will be 1.3 times the normal fare. Train No. 06343 Trivandrum – Madurai daily special will leave at 8.30pm and reach Madurai at 10.10am the next day. The service will commence on December 23. In the return direction, train No. 06344 Madurai – Trivandrum daily special will leave at 4.05pm and reach Trivandrum at 5.20am the next day. The service will commence on December 24. The trains will have stoppages at Varkala, Kollam, Kayankulam, Chengannur, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrisur, Ottappalam, Palghat, Palghat Town, Kollengode, Pollachi, Udumalaipettai, Palani and Dindigul. Train No. 06344 will also have additional stoppages at Karunagapalli, Mavelikara, Tiruvalla and Chenganaseri. Train No. 06065 Tambaram – Nagercoil tri-weekly special will leave at 7.25pm and reach Nagercoil at 7.30am the next day. The train will commence operations from December 16 on Sundays, Mondays and Wednesdays. Train No. 06066 Nagercoil – Tambaram will start at 4.15pm and reach Tambaram at 4.15am the next day. From December 17, it will commence its journey on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays. The trains will have stoppages at Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Vridhachalam, Trichy, Dindigul, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sattur Kovilpatti, Tirunelveli and Valliyoor. Train No. 06070 Tirunelveli – Bilaspur will leave Tirunelveli at 1.15am on Sundays and reach Bilaspur at 9.35pm the next day. Three services will be operated from December 13 to 27. In the return direction, train No. 06069 Bilaspur – Tirunelveli will leave Bilaspur at 8.15am on Tuesdays and reach Tirunelveli at 3.15am on the third day. Railways will operate three services from December 15 to 29. The trains will have stoppages at Nagercoil Town, Trivandrum, Kollam, Kayankulam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam Junction, Aluva, Thirsur, Palghat, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Renigunta, Vijayawada, Warangal¸ Balharshah, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Bhandara Road, Tumsar Road, Gondia, Dongargarh¸ Raj Nandgaon, Durg, Raipur and Bhatapara. Train No. 06072 Tirunelveli – Dadar will start at 7.15am on Wednesdays and reach Dadar at 3pm the next day from December 16 to 30. In the return direction, train No. 06071 Dadar – Tirunelveli will start at 8.40pm on Thursdays and reach Tirunelveli at 4 am on the third day from December 17 to 31. The trains will have stoppages at Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul, Karur, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Palghat, Shoranur, Kozhikode, Kannur, Mangalore Junction, Udupi, Honnavar, Karwar, Madgaon, Thivim, Kankavali, Ratnagiri, Chiplun, Panvel and Thane. Train No. 06071 will also have halt at Kovilpatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-more-pairs-of-spl-trains-announced-for-south-tn/articleshow/79652057.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Heart of Kerala promises a pulsating contest today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The second phase of the local-body election, covering five districts, will be held on Thursday, with two corporations, 36 municipalities, five district panchayats, 58 block panchayats and 350 grama panchayats up for grabs. There are 98,56,943 voters in the five districts — Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad — going to the polls today. Thrissur leads the way with 26,91,372 voters. There are 51,28,361 women voters in the list for the penultimate phase, while men number 47,28,489. New voters in these five districts comprise 57,895. The state election commission has set up 12,643 polling booths for the second phase. Among these, 473 have been declared sensitive and will have webcasting facility. About 63,187 officials and 19,736 police personnel have been deployed for the smooth conduct of voting. The police force will include 63 DySPs, 316 inspectors, 1,594 sub-inspectors and senior civil police officers. The first phase of voting seems to have boosted the confidence of parties with leaders – across the political spectrum – talking up their chances. The contest for the Kottayam district panchayat will be one of the most closely watched in the second phase. UDF currently controls the panchayat and the Congress has been relying heavily on Oommen Chandy for campaigning here. The former chief minister spent more than a week in the district. LDF, meanwhile, is betting on its newfound ally, the Jose K Mani-led faction of Kerala Congress (Mani), to turn the tables. Along with Jose, the Kottayam district panchayat will be decisive for the other KC (M) faction, led by P J Joseph, which decided to stay in the UDF. The heft they will command in their respective fronts will be determined based on the number of seats they win here and the other local bodies in the district. Kochi and Thrissur corporations will also be in focus. While UDF will be hoping to retain Ernakulam, LDF is eyeing a major upset. In Thrissur, BJP is gunning for a good showing. It also cannot afford to lose Palakkad municipality, which was its sole scalp at the municipal level in 2015. Though Wayanad is considered a UDF bastion in Lok Sabha and assembly elections, this has not been the case in local-body polls. The front will be looking to defy the odds this time, especially with Rahul Gandhi representing the constituency in Parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/heart-of-kerala-promises-a-pulsating-contest-today/articleshow/79649494.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zoos in Gujarat step up their vigil||AHMEDABAD: Zoos in the state including those at Ahmedabad and Junagadh have begun taking special precautions. Zoo staff have been asked to be vigilant and ensure that no visitors goes near the animal cages. Officials has stepped up their vigil following news of four lions at Barcelona zoo testing positive for Covid. This is the second known case in which lions have contracted the virus. An official they are particularly worried about mammals catching the infection. Officials said staff at the Kamala Nehru Botonical Garden (Kankaria Zoo) has been asked to remain vigilant. The zoo has set up barricades at a safe distance from the cages. Officials said usually visitors are seen getting close to the monkey enclosures and feeding them. Staff have been asked to be extra cautious. Apart from checking the temperatures of visitors and ensuring they have masks on, an antiviral foot bath has been kept at the gate. R K Sahu, director of Kankaria Zoo, said the cases are regularly disinfected. According to Central Zoo Authority of India directives, no keeper is allowed to touch animals. At zoos abroad keepers are allowed to get close to the animals, which increases the risk of infection. Staff have been asked to clean utensils twice a day and disinfect them before food is served to the animals. The staff, in line with protocol, have to undergo medical checks and stay away if they have a cough or fever. At Sakkarbaug zoo in Junagadh, the authorities have also stepped up their vigil. CCF D Vasavada said, “We are taking all precautions and the cages are disinfected regularly. The doctors at the zoo are also monitoring the health of the animals. The staff is asked to be extra cautious and ensure that no visitor with high temperatures or any symptoms enters the premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zoos-in-state-step-up-their-vigil/articleshow/79650874.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
December 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rumours of my links with gold case baseless: Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan here on Wednesday termed fictitiously unfounded the rumours and allegations that are doing the rounds, linking him with persons accused in the controversial gold smuggling case. In a statement released by his office, the speaker said that it was unfortunate that his name was dragged into the controversy, without any substantial evidence to corroborate the wild allegations he was forced to field. “There is no truth in the allegations. All official trips were carried out by sticking to the rule book,” he said. Political leaders in BJP and Congress have claimed that the ‘shocking name’ that figured in the statement given by the smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh before the court was none other than speaker Sreeramakrishnan. “Details of all the foreign trips carried out by the speaker are available in speaker’s office and the same were undertaken after intimating the authorities concerned. The speaker has nothing to hide in this regard. The speaker had neither travelled along with the controversial persons nor had he met any of them during any of his trips to foreign countries. The speaker had journeyed abroad on invitations by several organizations and also for personal purposes,” the statement said. The speaker’s office said the insinuating allegations against him were cropping up as if from nowhere and media were picking it up without verifying. Instead, there were deliberate attempts to keep the speaker and his office under the cloud of suspicion. Government funds were used only for trips carried out for official purposes. The speaker has cleared the air when there were similar attempts to drag his name into the controversy during the initial stages of the controversial case which the central investigating agencies were probing into. The expense for trips on invitations from various cultural and other organizations were borne by them as per the norms. There was no lack of clarity on that aspect as well. “It’s not right to drag a constitutional authority into controversies. There is no truth behind the rumours and allegations. The untrue campaigns should be rejected with due disdain,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rumours-of-my-links-with-gold-case-baseless-speaker/articleshow/79649496.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Non-designated hospital treats Covid patients, sealed||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation sealed Atmiya Hospital in Naroda, for treating Covid-19 patients even though it was not designated a Covid hospital. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who is in charge of the city’s Covid response, in a statement said the AMC has also initiated police action against the hospital. He said the AMC received intelligence about the hospital after which an inquiry was initiated. Officials said an officer of the level of assistant professor was sent to the hospital to verify the complaint and it was found that there were 13 patients undergoing Covid treatment. The AMC officer found that the patients were admitted based on high-resolution computerized tomography tests. Officials then verified the treatment sheets of the patients and found that remdesivir was also administered. Moreover, officials found that the ‘Form C’, the document for operating a hospital, was given by the AMC for only six beds, but the hospital had admitted more patients than permitted. Officials said that all the patients were transferred to other hospitals and the hospital was sealed. Officials said the management will also be booked under the Disaster Management Act apart from sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/non-designated-hospital-treats-covid-patients-sealed/articleshow/79650870.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Water released from dams in Tirunelveli to benefit nearly 18,000 acres||TIRUNELVELI: Water was released from the Manimuthar and Kodumudiyar dams in Tirunelveli district on Wednesday to benefit 17,799 acres under cultivation in the pisanam crop season. It includes 12,018 acres to benefit through the release of water in the 3rd and 4th reaches of Manimuthar dam and 5,781 acres under Kodumudiyar dam. In Manimuthar reservoir, water was released on the 3rd and 4th reaches as it is the turn for the two reaches in 2020-21. Speaking on the occasion, adi dravida and tribal welfare minister V M Rajalakshmi said that up to 445 cusecs will be release from Manimuthar till March 31, 2021. The discharge would depend on water availability in the reservoir and rains in the catchment areas. Release from Manimuthar dam will fill 167 tanks – 93 in the 3rd reach and 74 in the 4th reach – in Nanguneri, Thisayanvilai and Radhapuram blocks in Tirunelveli district and Eral, Srivaikuntam, Sathankulam and Tiruchendur blocks in Tuticorin district. Water level in Manimuthar dam stood at 102.35 feet against the full reservoir capacity of 118 feet on Wednesday morning. At 3,999 MCFT the availability was 72.5% of the full storage capacity of 5,511 MCFT, while the inflow was 1992 cusecs. Discharge of water from Kodumudiyar dam at 60 cusecs will continue till March 31, 2021, facilitating direct irrigation in 240 acres, 2,518 acres through tanks and 3,232 acres through the Vadamalayan channel. The dam has 35 feet water against the full capacity of 52.5 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-released-from-dams-to-benefit-nearly-18k-acres/articleshow/79652086.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||How do you propose to enforce circular on fees, Kerala HC asks government||KOCHI/ THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Kerala high court on Wednesday asked the state government how it plans to implement a circular requiring schools to collect only expenses as fees this year in view of Covid-19-induced disruptions. It was considering a set of petitions filed by students and parents against schools which have been insisting on unreasonably high fees during the current academic year when classes were conducted only virtually. Justice Devan Ramachandran sought the views of the government, in an interim order, after the court was told that a circular was issued on December 2 asking all schools, including CBSE and ICSE ones, to collect only expenses as fees this academic year as previously suggested by the court. The court said, “I direct the learned senior government pleader to obtain instructions from the competent authority as to how the circular now placed on record can be enforced and whether a specified authority in the state education department can look into the complaints of overcharging of fees in appropriate cases; and also if the income and expenditure statements filed in these cases can be verified and scrutinized for further action.” Following the high court order, the government issued guidelines directing authorities to collect only the necessary amount they require for running the affairs of schools for the 2020-21 academic year. This assumes importance as Covid-19 has “upset the financial condition of most parents”, an official statement said on Wednesday. The court had earlier asked schools to file statements explaining the expenses and had directed the government and CBSE to verify those statements. CBSE informed the court, on Wednesday, that it is not in a position to verify those statements and that it is powerless to enforce a circular against schools under it. The court said CBSE’s stand is distressing and unfortunate and that the board is washing its hands off the responsibility and placing it on the government. “Asking CBSE to issue a circular in such a circumstance would be an empty formality and waste of time,” the court said while directing the government to inform it about setting up a mechanism for dealing with complaints of overcharging of fees by schools during the pandemic. The court will now hear the case on December 17. ‘Don’t explore other profit avenues’ No direct or indirect measures for making a profit must be explored this year, the guidelines said. Fees should be fixed only on the basis of facilities made available to students during the pandemic. The instructions are only applicable for 2020-21 and they would cease to exist after the current academic year, it added. Private managements, however, say many schools are on the verge of closure as a decisive chunk of parents are opting not to pay fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/how-do-you-propose-to-enforce-circular-on-fees-hc-asks-govt/articleshow/79649509.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Delhi||CM’s neighbours in HC against Delhi cops||NEW DELHI: Neighbours of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal approached Delhi High Court on Thursday seeking contempt action against Delhi Police for allowing dharna and protests to be held in their area, causing road closures and traffic disruption. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva issued notice to the Delhi Police chief and the chief secretary, seeking their response to the plea filed by Civil Lines Residents Association. Citing the court’s orders against agitating JNU students who obstructed administrative work and orders where court restrained Delhi Vidyut Board Employees Union and its members from holding any dharna, demonstration, picketing within 500 metres of any offices of BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd, the residents have urged the court to crack the whip. “Since yesterday, mayors and councillors of municipal corporations are sitting outside the CM’s residence on Flag Staff Road and have blocked the public road once again obstructing free movement of residents of the area. The protesters have, therefore, flagrantly violated the directions passed by this honourable court,” the plea says. The high court had in 2017 disposed of a petition directing the police commissioner to ensure that adequate steps were taken for keeping residential areas streamlined for traffic movement and to prevent it from being obstructed due to dharnas and protests. Claiming that it was impossible for residents to access the public roads outside the CM’s residence due to the continuous dharnas and protests, the RWA said it sought to know from CM’s office if any steps had been taken to remove the protesters to normalise traffic on the said public road. “Shockingly and unfortunately, the petitioner was informed that despite calls having been made by the personal secretary of the chief minister to the home secretary, Government of India and to the commissioner of police, no steps had been taken and that since yesterday the chief minister has been virtually been held hostage in his official residence and his movements have been seriously restricted and impeded,” the plea claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cms-neighbours-in-hc-against-cops/articleshow/79670429.cms||Abhinav Garg
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Coronavirus fines reach Rs 98 crore in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: From June to December 8, about 21.9 lakh people in the state have paid approximately Rs 98.4 crore in fines for breaching Covid norms. According to the DGP’s office, on December 7 alone, 14,271 persons paid fines to the tune of Rs 1.4 crore. On December 8, 7,056 people paid more than Rs 70 lakh. It is noteworthy that as compared to December 7, the number of persons paying fines for violating corona protocols dropped by 50%. DGP Ashish Bhatia said that instructions have been passed to cops across the state to strictly deal with people who don’t wear masks or don’t maintain social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/corona-fines-reach-rs-98-cr/articleshow/79650832.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Allahabad||Dissatisfied with exam score? Newre-evaluation won’t leave a doubt||Prayagraj: A common re-evaluation system has been implemented in all state universities, including Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University and Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) in Prayagraj. Under this system, action would be taken against callous examiners and a notice would be served to an examiner if there is more than 20% change in score in the assessment of answer sheets evaluated by him/her. If more than three such instances are found in the same paper, then the full remuneration for evaluation will be withheld. If there are more than five such cases, the examiner will be debarred for two years, and if 10 instances are found in same paper, then examiner would be debarred and an adverse entry made in personal statement book. “Till now there was only the provision for scrutiny, wherein only awarded marks were added again, but in ‘re-evaluation’ the student can challenge that he has been awarded less marks and a panel of two separate examiners, appointed by the vice-chancellor would evaluate the copy and award marks separately and their average would be considered,” said UPRTOU VC Prof K N Singh, who is also officiating as VC of Rajju Bhaiya university. The marks would be changed only if there is difference of over 20% of marks awarded to the student, he added. Students dissatisfied with their score in exam can now challenge the assessment in two stages. First, they can see the scanned copy of their answer sheet and then can challenge the evaluation. The examinee will apply within 30 days of declaration of result and pay Rs 300 per question paper to view the scanned copy.  Similarly, they will have to deposit a fee of Rs 2,500 per question paper for revaluation provided they apply within 45 days of the result announcement. The head of department will prepare a panel of four subject experts and the vice chancellor and controller of examinations of university would select any two experts. The subject expert will be selected by a committee constituted by the VC. Moreover, the numbers awarded in the answer sheet will be masked so that subject expert evaluates it without any bias.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/dissatisfied-with-exam-score-newre-evaluation-wont-leave-a-doubt/articleshow/79650831.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Corporation summons MLA Shaji’s wife||KOZHIKODE: City corporation has issued a notice to K M Asha, wife of MLA K M Shaji, asking her to appear before the authorities personally to explain details related to the land where the MLA has built a house. Asha has been asked to appear on December 17. Corporation has measured the house under Vengeri village office as per the direction of the Enforcement Directorate, which is investigating the bribery case against Shaji. It was found that the construction of the house has violated original permission. The corporation had asked Shaji to regularize it by paying fine. It was also found that there is some encroachment on the land where the house was constructed. A total of 90 cents was bought by Shaji, MLA M K Muneer, and other IUML leaders. Both the land and the house are in Shaji’s wife’s name. Enforcement Directorate had questioned Nafeesa, wife of M K Muneer, on Tuesday. Her statement was recorded as the land at Vengeri village is in her name.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/corporation-summons-mla-shajis-wife/articleshow/79649529.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Oxygen leak scare at Covid hospital in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: An oxygen cylinder at a private hospital designated to treat Covid-19 patients in the Maninagar area developed a leak on Wednesday. This caused panic among the relatives of patients who called the fire brigade thinking that a fire had broken out. The faulty valve of the leaking cylinder was later repaired, said officials of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES). A tragedy was averted as fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and plugged the leak in afternoon, said a fire officer. The leak occurred in the storage area of Little Flower Hospital in Maninagar. “After getting the call, seven fire personnel and one fire tender rushed there and controlled the situation,” said the fire officer. The official said the cylinders were inside a room at the facility and were connected to pipes taking the gas to the ICU. “Oxygen started leaking from one cylinder on Wednesday afternoon. Luckily, the leak was capped in time by our men. No one was injured or shifted elsewhere,” said the officer. Hospital authorities told reporters that oxygen supply to Covid patients was not affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/o2-leak-scare-at-covid-hospital/articleshow/79650836.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Common entrance test for MPhil, PhD admissions at MKU||MADURAI: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) will hold an online common entrance test (CET) for MPhil and PhD admissions for the academic year 2020-21 on December 19. More than 2,500 candidates have registered for the exam. As per the press release from MKU registrar (in-charge) V S Vasantha, CET will be two hours duration consisting 100 multiple choice questions, including 50 questions in general and remaining in their subject concerned. Candidates must take up the exam with either their computer or laptop with web camera and microphone on or smartphone or tablet. In case of any technical/connectivity issue or power interruption, the candidate will be permitted to re-login for a maximum of three times, after which the application will not allow the candidate to continue the exam. The candidates are hence advised to ensure uninterrupted power supply and stable internet connectivity in their location during the exam. The university will also be holding two mock tests for students to get a hang of the exam and ensure minimal technical difficulties on the day of the exam. Each test will have 25 MCQs with a duration of 30 minutes. While taking up the CET, the candidates will be monitored by the proctors online by capturing their images and audio.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/common-entrance-test-for-mphil-phd-admissions-at-mku/articleshow/79652116.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Street library takes wings to help primary school kids in Madurai||MADURAI: A street library has been initiated at Karuppapillai Enthal area in Madurai to help primary school students get access to books and develop reading habit from home. K Saravanan, headmaster, Dr T Thirugnanam Primary School, who also runs ‘Nool Vanam’, started the street library initiative with the aim of helping students from poor backgrounds get access to books and help them read better even when schools are shut. “We used to introduce our school children to public libraries and help them get memberships. However, now most libraries are not functioning as usual. So, with the help of members of parent teacher associations, self-help groups, we are looking to set up street libraries across Madurai,” he said. The street libraries will be run by parents who will maintain it just like a lending library. “As the first part of the initiative, around 100 books worth Rs 5,000 were put together to establish the street library at Karuppapillai Enthal area. Students in nearby streets would be able to access these books any time. Depending on the response and if we can have more parents involved, we are planning to develop such libraries in 11 more areas,” said Saravanan. At the primary school, already a home-schooling initiative is going on wherein teachers are going to different localities where students live and give them lessons. “These street libraries can help support the home-schooling as students can develop reading habit and read more books on their own without worrying about spending on them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/street-library-takes-wings-to-help-primary-school-kids-in-madurai/articleshow/79652149.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Environment crusader Prof S Sitaraman is no more||Kochi: Renowned environmentalist prof S Sitaraman passed away at his home in Aluva at 11.30am on Wednesday. He was 74. Prof Sitaraman is survived by wife P E Parvathy and sons Jayanarayanan and Hariswaran. The last rites will be performed after the arrival of his sons, both of whom are in the US. Sitaraman retired as head of department of chemistry from Sree Sankara College, Kalady, and later went on to head science and humanities department at Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology. An active green crusader, Sitaraman was associated with protection of river Periyar. As state secretary of All- Kerala river protection council, his contribution to protection of the rivers in the state, especially Periyar, was immense. He was among the first lot of environmental activists in the state and founder-secretary of association of environmental protection. Sitaraman’s campaign to protect river Periyar saw him file a petition against DTPC restaurant Mazhavillu when he was president of the association of environment protection, Aluva. He moved the court alleging violation of Kerala coastal zone management act. Supreme Court, which heard the case, gave stringent orders to district collector to demolish the illegal building in February 2014. He also led afforestation programme along the banks of Periyar at Aluva Manappuram to prevent excessive soil erosion at the confluence of its tributary Mangalapuzha. He called it ‘Kutti vanam’ or mini forest. Sitaraman was vocal on air pollution, especially industrial pollution which saw effluents and heavy metals being dumped into the river. Being a chemistry professor, he carried out research on heavy metal contamination in Periyar and led campaigns against sand mining in rivers. As a teacher, he was actively involved in raising environmental awareness among students in high schools in the district. Sitaraman was the chief coordinator of national green corps, Ernakulam district, which is under Union ministry of environment and forests. He was also the chairman of Western Ghats protection council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/environment-crusader-prof-s-sitaraman-is-no-more/articleshow/79649565.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Madurai||Steady rise in cases in Virudhunagar, Dindigul blamed on easing of curbs||MADURAI: Though there has been no significant rise in Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu post Diwali, active cases in Dindigul and Virudhunagar have slowly climbed to 186 and 137 respectively from reporting less than 100 active cases in early November. Health officials from both districts said that while the district was reporting Covid-19 cases in single digits daily in October end and early November, post Diwali, around 20-30 new cases are reported daily. “The cases in Dindigul may have seen a 20% rise compared to before. But, it must be noted that if there was any outbreak, the cases would have climbed past 50-100 per day, which we are not seeing. If wearing of masks and social distancing is strictly enforced, we are sure the cases will come down further,” said a senior health official from Dindigul. In both districts, an average of 1,500 samples are tested daily for Covid-19. Though it is less compared to 3,000-4,000 samples being tested in the districts, the current positivity rate is only around 1%. During the weeks after Diwali (since November 23), 179 cases were recorded in Dindigul, while in Virudhunagar 138 cases were reported. The active cases are now at 186 in Dindigul and 137 in Virudhunagar whereas in early November, the number was well below 100 in both districts. “Movement is something unavoidable now as lockdown is almost completely relaxed. The cases have all been sporadic and across different areas with no clusters reported. Further, now we are not able to monitor those travelling in and out of the district unlike previously, especially in case of functions like marriages or funerals. With better enforcement of Covid-19 safety measures, the cases can be brought down,” said a health official from Virudhunagar. Officials from both districts also added that there have also been cross-notification cases (wherein only the address is in the respective district but the person may be under treatment in a different district) as well, which would be pushing up the Covid-19 tally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/steady-rise-in-cases-in-virudhunagar-dindigul-blamed-on-easing-of-curbs/articleshow/79652159.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
December 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||C M Raveendran still in hospital, may undergo MRI scan today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: C M Raveendran, the additional private secretary to the chief minister will not be appearing before enforcement directorate (ED) officials for interrogation on Thursday. He is continuing treatment at the medical college hospital where he has been admitted since Tuesday. This is the third time he is evading ED notice to appear before them to collect details on the gold smuggling case. The medical board of the medical college hospital which reviewed Raveendran’s health status advised a detailed examination by the neurology specialists since he has been complaining about continuous headache. Sources said that brain MRI scanning was advised and it will be done on Thursday to find out whether Covid-19 has affected his brain. Raveendran was infected with Covid-19 and hence he could not appear before the ED when the first notice was served. However, when the second notice was served by the ED, he again got admitted for post-Covid treatment. However, the opposition has lashed out at the CPM for safeguarding Raveendran from appearing before the ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/raveendran-still-in-hospital-may-undergo-mri-scan-today/articleshow/79649575.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold imports plunge, demand dips||Ahmedabad: Muhurat purchases and Diwali season failed to add the needed glitter to gold demand. Consequently, yellow metal imports, even at 2.48MT, declined by a whopping 45% in November against last year’s imports of 4.54MT.  Bullion traders suggest that the high price of gold, and a recessionary trend have hampered sentimental buying of gold driven by auspicious muhurats. The yellow metal price stood at Rs 50,800 per 10 gram on Tuesday. Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA), said, “While demand for gold jewellery was certainly better during Diwali season, it was way less than that of last year. This time, while weddings are downsized, there is also an impact visible because NRI customers, who contribute to a huge chunk of sales, have not yet arrived.” “Even those who purchased bullion or jewellery had pre-planned purchases for weddings and other occasions. However, even those purchases were half in terms of volumes and budgets, as the wedding season has shrunk,” Soni further added. Bullion traders and jewellers explained that the consumer sentiment has gone weak, amid the second wave of infections and a recessionary trend. Ketan Choksi, managing director of a Vadodara-based jewellery business, said, “Weddings take place during this time of the year typically. However, amid the pandemic, people have postponed their events or have been downsized. Typically, this is a peak season for jewellery retail. With a fresh wave of cases, the demand will be less and therefore, sales are expected to plunge.” “As financial insecurities are not going away, the sales are bound to be impacted,” Choksi further added. Bullion traders also claim that the demand for bullion for investment purpose and that for gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs) also declined as prices began declining. In a clear irony, gold jewellery demand has failed to pick up despite a dip in gold prices. From its peak in November of Rs 54,400 per 10 gram, gold price plunged by Rs 4,500 to Rs 49,900 per 10 gram on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-imports-plunge-demand-dips/articleshow/79537021.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Voters reposed faith in farm laws: Union mins||Jaipur: The victory in gram panchayat polls has come to the rescue of Union government which is facing protest by farmers over agriculture laws. The central BJP leaders and union ministers have claimed that the victory in 1,989 gram panchayats out of 4,371 is the evidence that rural voters have reposed faith in farm laws.Union minister of environment Prakash Javadekar held press conference in New Delhi and used the party’s victory to counter the farmers’ protest.BJP president J P Nadda also used the opportunity and tweeted to dispel the fear of farmers.The victory becomes significant in a sense that for the first time in the recent years that the ruling party has lost rural election. The victory has given a shot in the arm of the BJP state president Satish Poonia who chose to follow a distinct campaign strategy by reaching out to the beneficiaries of the Central government schemes to create a buzz in the poll-bound segment. Being in the opposition, it was the best bet for the saffron party to bring PM Modi element to the fore in rural polls.“The ongoing schemes like Ujjwala, PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission etc have a large number of takers in the rural areas. Every poll segment had the beneficiaries who were reached out and they were more than happy to share how their lives have changed by these schemes has countered the ruling state government influence,” said Poonia.The polls took place in the midst of the farmers’ protest seems to make not much impact for the BJP. The party is thanking its booth level reach out programs to highlight the benefits of the farm laws held September-October-November to minimise the damage of farmers’ protest.Along, the party didn’t hesitate in repeated the farmers’ loan waiver promise made by the Congress government like one of the main common poll strategies. The victory has also given him an upper edge over other senior BJP leaders in the state. His style of working has developed a rift with the senior leaders during the municipal polls last month.It didn’t prevent him to keep his say in the ticket distribution, while the Congress had given the free hand to the MLAs. The state party leaders have briefed the central leaders about the importance of the polls which was held in rural areas and concerning farmers. The Centre was quick to take the line and started using it as a countermeasure. Meanwhile, the BJP has started rushing its elected gram panchayat and counsellors ahead of the election for pradhan and zila pramukh to the hotels and safe places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/voters-reposed-faith-in-farm-laws-union-mins/articleshow/79650845.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Customs arraigns M’luru native as accused||Kochi: Customs (preventive) has arraigned Rajendra Prakash Pawar from Bhavanthi Street in Mangaluru as an accused in the gold smuggling case. On Wednesday, the agency moved the additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) seeking a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against the accused. Also, customs received permission from NIA special court to question Rabins Hameed. The accused person was arraigned as respondent number 24. According to a report filed in court by customs, Pawar’s role came to light from the statements of various respondents who were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. “Though several summons were issued, he neither responded nor appeared before the investigation officer on the set date. Given the circumstances, this report is submitted with a request that Pawar may be added as accused R 24 in the above case and the report may be accepted,” customs said in the application to include additional respondents. Sources said that the accused has a history in gold smuggling and had allegedly purchased smuggled gold from the racket. His alleged connections with hawala networks, involved in gold smuggling, is also being probed, said an official source. “Since the respondent resides outside Kerala, the court having jurisdiction of the case has to issue a NBW against the said respondent, so that the issue can be taken up through appropriate authorities. As the value of seized gold exceeds Rs 1 crore, the offence committed by the above person is non-bailable as per provisions contained in Customs Act, 104,” customs said in its request. Customs to quiz Rabins Meanwhile, NIA special court permitted customs to record the statement of Rabins Hameed under Section 108 of the Customs Act. Rabins is considered to be one of the masterminds in the smuggling case and was key link of the racket in the UAE. NIA had recorded his arrest on arrival at Kochi airport on October 26, and he was later remanded in judicial custody. Sandeep Nair files bail plea Another prime accused, Sandeep Nair, filed a bail petition at NIA special court. In the petition, he stated that NIA investigation against him was over and that he had given a confession statement under CrPC Section 164 in the case. The court will consider his petition on Friday. Sources said that the agency has decided to make him an approver. However, Customs had invoked Cofeposa against him and he is presently in preventive detention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-arraigns-mluru-native-as-accused/articleshow/79649616.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey Hospital victim’s kin moves SC||AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court on Wednesday permitted the kin of a victim of the Shrey Hospital fire tragedy to participate in the litigation on the incidents of fire in hospitals. Vishnubhai Sindhi, whose wife died in the fire that broke out on August 6 in the ICU of Shrey Hospital, had moved the apex court and requested it to allow him to join in the litigation as a party respondent so that he could assist the court on the subject, sources said. On September 30, Himanshu Bhavsar had approached the Gujarat high court with a similar request to join the litigation that the HC was hearing seeking action about the fire tragedy. Bhavsar had lost his father, Arvindbhai Bhavsar, in the fire incident along with seven other patients. The HC was hearing the issue on a PIL filed by advocate Amit Panchal. The SC has been hearing the issue after taking suo motu cognizance of the subject.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-hospital-victims-kin-moves-sc/articleshow/79650879.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan panchayat elections: Win a shot in the arm for BJP before bypolls||JAIPUR: The BJP has scored points over the Congress by winning the gram panchayat elections held in three poll-bound assembly segments — Sujangarh (Churu), Sahara (Bhilwara) and Rajsamand (Rajsamand). The by-polls in these segments are due in March 2021. The seats went vacant due to the death of sitting MLAs including BJP’s Kiran Maheshwari (Rajsamand) and Congress party’s Bhanwarlal Meghwal (Sujangarh) and Kailash Trivedi (Sahara). The saffron party is filled with confidence in the poll-bound constituencies after the spectacular victory in the rural bodies and is gearing up for the next big political fight with the Congress. The party has held a couple of rounds of consultations for the by-polls. In Rajsamand constituency, BJP claimed five gram panchayats out of eight, which continues to be seen as a stronghold for the BJP. Maheshwari was a stalwart leader, who had been representing the seat from the past three terms from Rajsamand. The party is looking for a woman candidate to fill the vacuum left by Maheshwari. Sources said that so far, the family members of Maheshwari have refused to participate in the electoral process which if the party makes possible, it will be a sure shot victory. Congress has lost two gram panchayats and has won one with a narrow margin under the Sahara constituency and if the trend continues, the battle seems to be against the ruling party. Trivedi won the seat by a narrow margin, that too when BJP candidate lost significant votes to a BJP rebel, making it an easy seat for BJP. “The victory is very important for both the parties which would be projected as the mid-term verdict by the people. Both the parties are expected to campaign full throttle to ensure that they can set the victory narrative for next 2.5 years,” said Avadesh Akodia, a political analyst. The sympathy wave for all three MLAs is expected but the candidate will matter the most in the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/win-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-bjp-before-bypolls/articleshow/79650838.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Goa govt utilised only 23% funds for tribal welfare, claims federation||POINGUINIM: The Goa government has spent only 23% of the total funds earmarked for the Scheduled Tribes’ (ST) welfare in the state. Till October this year, the government has spent only Rs 107 crore of the Rs 451 crore funds allocated under the Tribal Sub Plan (TSP), the Gawda, Kunbi, Velip and Dhangar federation (GAKUVED) has said. Secretary Rupesh Velip said that under TSP, the state government has been making a budgetary provision of 12% every financial year for use by 28 departments. However, most of the departments are not showing an interest in spending the funds, Velip said. “In the year 2019-20, the state government had allocated Rs 452 crore under TSP. However, only Rs 227 crore or around 50% of the total allocation was utilised. The main reason for non-utilisation of TSP funds is the absence of a planning authority and non-functioning of the tribal advisory council (TAC). In addition, the TSP funds are also misutilised or diverted,” said Velip. The 28 line departments have designed these schemes as per their own convenience and not as per the needs of the ST community he said. “Also the state budget is about Rs21,000 crore and therefore ST communities are entitled to get about Rs1,900 crore at 12%, and not just Rs 400 to Rs 500 crore,” said Velip. He said that the agitation by United Tribal Association Alliance (UTTA), which led to the deaths of two youth from the community in Balli had as one of its main demands, the setting up a planning authority. “All the self-proclaimed leaders of UTAA slept after BJP formed the government in the state, which we suspect was their agenda and not to have their demands met. Therefore for effective implementation of TSP funds, a planning authority is a must. The planning authority must have members from the legislative assembly, ST organisations, members of ST commission and the nodal agency (tribal welfare) and should meet at least once a month,” said Velip. Planning, monitoring and auditing of the authority should also be carried out, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-utilised-only-23-funds-for-tribal-welfare-claims-federation/articleshow/79650880.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Father-son murder: 24 detained in Sikar district||JAIPUR: Fatehpur police of Sikar on Wednesday detained 24 persons in connection with the murder of the son-father duo during a winning procession of a candidate on Tuesday. The chilling incident reported during the winning procession of a BJP candidate who won the gram panchayat polls on Tuesday bypassing the Congress candidate house. Both the groups engaged in the verbal argument leading to the violent clash. The stone-pelting which lasted for an hour from both sides lead to 10 persons injured, including father and son duo Pyarelal and Kanhiyalal died due to injuries. The victim’s family in the FIR named 51 identified accused of planning to kill the father-son. Sikar SP Gagandeep Singla said that the matter is being investigated by police. “So far 24 persons have been detained and they among those who were named in the FIR. They will be arrested once the primary investigation confirms their involvement in the case,” said Singla. The police are scanning the CCTV footage and videos taken by the onlookers to identify the accused in the case. Amid heavy security the bodies of the deceased were consigned to the flames. Heavy police have been deployed in the area to avoid the escalation of the violence The victim family has demanded the arrest of all named accused in the case and compensation from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/father-son-murder-24-detained-in-sikar-dist/articleshow/79650853.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||GFP: Resolve water woes by Dec 19||Poinguinim: Accusing the state government of claiming that water would reach every household while ignoring problems related to supply in Canacona, Goa Forward Party’s (GFP) secretary Prashant Naik on Tuesday warned the government to face consequences if the water woes are not resolved by December 19. Naik said that water supply has been erratic in all parts of Canacona, be it Agonda, Shristhal, Loliem-Polem, Poinguinim, Cotigao, Gaondongorim or municipal limits. “All households have taps but with no water,” he said, adding, “During Diwali, BJP MLAs had distributed flattened rice and jaggery, but people had no water to even mix or cook these items. Such is the water crisis in the taluka.” “If this is the scenario in November and December itself, what would be the fate of Canconkars in summer,” Naik further said. Naik also highlighted the pending works of the bandharas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-resolve-water-woes-by-dec-19/articleshow/79650886.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||BJP breaches Cong bastion in Barmer||Jaisalmer: Barmer, which has remained a bastion of the Congress, was breached by the saffron party in the rural body polls as it bagged seats equal to that of the Congress. RLP, which contested for the first time in Barmer, will play the role of kingmaker here. The possibility of RLP supporting BJP is high, said sources. With this BJP will probably have its zila pramukh for the first time since Independence. Of the 37 seats, BJP and Congress got 18 each and RLP won one seat. In the past panchayat elections, BJP never performed better than Congress. Both parties will now have rope in RLP. On the other hand, in 21 panchayat samitis, Congress will form board in 13, while BJP will form board in six samitis. In two boards, BJP and Congress will have to take help of independents. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-breaches-cong-bastion-in-barmer/articleshow/79650873.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Results give us motivation to work better in future: Govind Singh Dotasra||JAIPUR: Despite being in power, the Congress party was not able to put up a stellar performance in the panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections held in 21 districts. Generally, the ruling party gets the advantage of using the office of power to their favour. While the BJP is jubilant, there is muted reaction from the Congress on its performance. Even many ministers could not save their pocket borough. “These results give us the motivation to work better in future, the Congress party will do better in the upcoming elections by keeping a good synergy between power and organization,” tweeted Congress state president and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, while the chief minister is yet to react on the poll outcome. The moribund party organisation and the demoralisation of the party workers due to the inordinate delay in political appointments could be some of the reasons for the below par performance of the ruling party. After Sachin Pilot was removed from the post of PCC president following his revolt in July-August and Dotasra was made the party chief, the party had dissolved the state, district and block committees. Officially, now Dostara is the only functionary in the party organisation. “The near absence of the party organisation at the grassroot level has done immense damage to the party. In the absence of party organisation, MLAs have been calling the shots and the chief minister who was busy facing threat to his government had been more than willing to accommodate their wishes,” said a leader on condition of anonymity. The party reorganisation has been delayed inordinately as the three-member committee constituted by the AICC which brokered a rapprochement with Pilot is yet to give its report on accommodation of various factions in the party and government. The official camp felt that the delay is to their advantage and they could call the shots. But this had alienated the other factions, opined another leader. Now the AICC general secretary incharge Ajay Maken says it will be done by December end. The party has also been delaying distributing the perks of office to party functionaries. There were talks of political appointments which were delayed to the tug of war with the chief minister and his deputy earlier. “The government is completing two years, but the cabinet expansion and political appointments are still awaited. This had demoralised the party workers and leaders,” said another leader. Though the state government had done pretty good job during lockdown and in Covid management, people who have been struggling to meet their both ends due to inflation and price rise due to the ever-increasing fuel prices and utilities like power bills, the state government did little to reduce the burden, said Hari Singh, a contract worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/results-give-us-motivation-to-work-better-in-future-dotasra/articleshow/79650878.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur all set for local body polls||THRISSUR: The stage is set for local body polls in Thrissur on Thursday. Elections will be held in corporation, district panchayat, 16 block panchayats, seven municipalities, and 86 grama panchayats. There are 26,91,016 voters in the district, of which 12,66,921 are men and 14,23,966 are women. There are 24 voters from the transgender community and over 100 non-resident Keralites. The voters have to elect 1,794 people’s representatives to 111 local bodies in the district; there 7,101 candidates in the fray from various political parties and also independent candidates. Also, 230 candidates are contesting to win in the corporation. There are 3,331 polling booths in the district and collector S Shanavas said that polling materials have been distributed to all stations and 16,655 officials have been deployed on election duty. Each booth will have five officials, in addition to two persons on reserve duty. District medical officer Dr KJ Reena said polling official, agents, voters and others have to obey Covid protocol and biomedical waste generated from polling stations must be disposed in accordance with prescribed norms, she said. According to official sources there are 417 polling stations which are considered as ‘trouble-prone’ and ten others that are ‘clash-prone’. More police personnel have been deployed in these booths. Special CCTV cameras have been installed here to monitor the situation, said DIG (Thrissur) S Surendran, adding that 3,000 policemen and another 3,000 special police personnel have been deployed for polls Police strike force and Thunderbolts conducted vehicle inspections at Thrissur-Palakkad border to avert untoward incidents during polls. The three major political fronts are predictably optimistic about their poll prospects. “There is no family in the district which has not received the benefits of various developmental activities and welfare programmes implemented by LDF government and local bodies. We are posed for a major victory,” said CPM district secretary MM Varghese. Congress MP TN Prathapan said voters are waiting to express their anger against LDF government which is neck-deep in corruption. “We will regain our lost ground and win a comfortable majority in corporation, district panchayat, block panchayats, municipalities and grama panchayats,” he claimed. BJP district president KK Aneesh Kumar said NDA will make impressive gains in local body elections.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/thrissur-all-set-for-local-body-polls/articleshow/79649641.cms||T Ramavarman
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||India’s GDP set to hit $28tn by ’50: Adani||Hyderabad: India’s GDP is expected to hit the $28 trillion mark by 2050 from the existing $2.8 trillion and account for 15% of the global GDP of $170-180 trillion (currently $85 trillion as the country emerges as a preferred investment destination for every global company, Adani group chairman Gautam Adani said on Wednesday. A bullish Adani also said he sees the stock market indices to increase by a factor of 13X by 2050 with the BSE Sensex hitting a range of 6,00,000 points by then. Adani, who was virtually delivering the keynote address on `Incredible India and the opportunities ahead’ on day two of the TiE Global Summit 2020, also said India’s population, which will hit 1.6 billion by 2050, will be its most potent asset. “By 2050, one in every three of the world’s middle class consumers will be Indian, making it the world’s largest middle class population. This middle clas will insulate India and drive an unmatched rate of internal consumption.” “In my view, India is today at a dramatic inflexion point. I believe that over the next few decades, India will have firmly positioned itself as the greatest opportunity of the 21st century and will become even stronger year 2050 onwards,” said Adani. He said transformational impact of intersection of digitisation and sustainable energy as well as the accelerated new possibilities unlocked in a post Covid world will drive India’s trajectory in global economy despite challenges.  “I expect that inexpensive green power in combination with digital technologies that include sensors and IoT, AI & ML, 5G and Cloud Infrastructure will all converge to give us ability to economically microsize several processes and convert every process into a service. Micro farming, micro water, micro healthcare, micro housing, micro manufacturing, list is endless,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indias-gdp-set-to-hit-28tn-by-50-adani/articleshow/79650890.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CCTV footage of women’s prison examined||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The prisons department undertook an examination of the closed circuit television feeds in the Attakkulangara women’s prison where the key accused in gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh has been housed here, on Wednesday. The footage was examined in the wake of Suresh pleading before the court that she is facing threat to her life as some of the persons who visited her in prison had threatened her demanding that she should not reveal the names of bigwigs involved in gold smuggling and should not cooperate with the probe by central agencies. DIG (prisons) undertook a detailed examination, including the video footages, to find out if anyone had visited Swapna overlooking the jail procedures for visiting a prisoner. When the news about Suresh’s plea came out on Tuesday, DGP (prisons and correctional services) Rishiraj Singh ordered a probe into the matter to find out who had visited her in prison. It is learnt that the examination could not find anything suspicious. The prisons department had increased the security for Suresh two weeks ago. While the prison is guarded by armed police, the cell housing Swapna is under CCTV cover round-the-clock. Also, there is a woman guard outside her cell. In her plea before the court, Suresh had said that some persons, identifiable by sight, claiming to be prisons and police officials had visited her and had warned her against disclosure of names of persons in high authority, suspected to have involvement in alleged criminal activities. She had also said that they had asked her not to cooperate with the investigation. She had said that she was threatened for several days prior to November 25, and now that she had made revelations before the judicial magistrate which has come out in the media, she is facing threat for her life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cctv-footage-of-womens-prison-examined/articleshow/79649656.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Procedure to get fire NOCs goes online in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has decided that to get fire no-objection certificates (NOCs), no citizen will need to visit any office. As part of the Smart City project, the AMC has taken the entire process online. Nitin Sagnwan, the deputy municipal commissioner in charge of the Smart City project said, “The AMC has started the online process where the application for fire NOC can be made online. The opinion for it will also be online and the certificate also can be downloaded,” he said. AMC officials said the online system will reduce the interface with citizens and also irregularities. The official giving the opinion will have to state the exact number of various pieces of equipment installed and this will be mentioned on the certificate. If there is a fire and equipment is missing or not functioning, the person who gave the opinion can be held responsible. Officials said the entire process will be login-based and no one will be able to operate another person’s account. The officer said a feature will also be added where an SMS or email will be generated before the NOC expires.. The AMC, as part of the Smart City project added an additional feature to its complaints portal. The feature enables citizen to give feedback about the handling of the complaint that they lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/procedure-to-get-fire-nocs-goes-online/articleshow/79650908.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand adopts Centre’s tightened public procurement criteria for border countries like China||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet which met on Wednesday gave a nod to a proposal to adopt the Centre’s tightened eligibility criteria for public procurement or contract which stipulates specific conditions for bidders of nations sharing land borders with the country, including Pakistan and China. The state, which shares an international border with both China and Nepal, had in the past passed orders to ban the use of Chinese products in its official works. On Wednesday, an amendment was also made in the Uttarakhand Procurement Policy 2017 to incorporate the changes made by the Centre regarding participation of firms from bordering countries. Sources said that the move is an indirect attempt to prevent Chinese firms from participating in projects in the state. The Union government in October had tightened the eligibility criteria for public procurements of contracts, stipulating that firms of countries, which share a land border with India, would have to provide details of outsourced parts, goods and sub-contracted works and services, technical issues, country of origin and specification of manufacturers. Providing further details, urban development minister Madan Kaushik said, “Uttarakhand is a strategically-located state and a lot of factors have been to be kept in mind while floating global tenders. The past few months have seen heightened tension on the border areas. Therefore, it is a matter of concern and also national security and tender bids should be awarded after thorough check and examination.” Though he denied to name any country, he said, “We all know where the tension was in the past few months.” In another important development, the cabinet approved the education department’s proposal to open higher education institutions in the state from December 15. All private and government colleges, degree colleges, institutes and universities would accordingly restart after a gap of over nine months. The higher education department is expected to come up with a detailed advisory soon, mentioning the social distancing norms and set guidelines that would have to be followed by college and university authorities. On the issue of Covid vaccine, authorities said that district and block-level committees had been formed and the required training was being provided to the health staff so that around 20 per cent population of the state can be administered the vaccine in the first phase. The cabinet also cleared the proposal to provide water connection at the rate of Rs100 per connection to the urban poor, which would comprise of people enrolled under the Below Poverty Line list or those from financially-weak backgrounds. Further, the cabinet approved 44 posts of super-speciality for Doon Medical College and 927 posts for Rudrapur Medical College. Doctors going in for PG courses would have to either choose between a stipend or salary given by the state. Earlier, there was a provision that such doctors would give a bank guarantee of Rs 1 crore. The state cabinet has now brought down the bank guarantee to Rs 50 lakh from Rs 1 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-adopts-centres-tightened-public-procurement-criteria-for-border-countries-like-china/articleshow/79648636.cms||Kautilya Singh
December 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: 132 cured, 101 fresh Covid cases takes active tally to 1,276||PANAJI: Goa’s mortality count shot up to 704 on Wednesday with two deaths. Two men — a 50-year-old from Miramar and a 68-year-old from Ponda — succumbed to the virus. Both had more than one comorbid conditions. The 50-year-old man also suffered from chronic kidney disease. As many as 132 patients were declared cured and 101 fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected during the day. With recoveries exceeding new cases, the count of active cases fell to 1,276. Total of 37 patients were hospitalised and 90 opted to be home isolated. The state’s positivity rate dropped to 6% and recovery rate remained steady at 96 %. For over two weeks the state’s recovery rate has hovered between 95% and 96%.  A total of 47,056 patients have been cured since March and the tally of cases has touched 49,036 in the last nine months. The caseload of the Panaji urban health centre dropped to 64 while that of Porvorim rose to 82 with two new cases found. The Chimbel primary health centre and Mapusa urban health centre also witnessed a drop in new cases, and their caseload went below 50. Margao urban health centre reported 13 new cases whereas Ponda witnessed a drop. Margao’s caseload rose to 117 while that of Ponda fell to 67. The centres at Canacona, Vasco, Cansaulim and Cortalim have slightly more cases, but their individual tally is between 50 to 70.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/132-cured-101-fresh-cases-takes-active-tally-to-1276/articleshow/79650896.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Agra||Agriculture laws will not be repealed, says Uttar Pradesh minister||AGRA: A senior minister in the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday said that the Centre’s stand on the new agriculture laws is very clear and it will not be repealed. UP’s finance, medical and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna said, “The stance of the Narendra Modi government towards the new farm laws is very clear. They are for the benefit of the farmers and will not be taken back. The opposition parties are playing dirty politics on the name of farmers.” The cabinet minister was in Agra to review Covid-19 situation. He added, “Prime minister has already said that you cannot build a new century with old laws. The three farm laws will not be repealed. Political parties supporting the ongoing agitation against the new laws had mentioned them in their election manifestos. They are trying to mislead the farmers.” Meanwhile, UP’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was in Agra to inaugurate road construction work, targeted the Samajwadi Party and Congress for supporting farmers’ agitation. “SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and former Congress president Rahul Gandhi have no concern for farmers. They will not be able to differentiate between the leaves of coriander and carrot,” Maurya said. “Rahul and Akhilesh do not know the basics of agriculture. Whatever the opposition parties are doing now is against the interests of the farmers. I am the son of a farmer and would like to assure everyone that Narendra Modi can never cause any harm to the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agriculture-laws-will-not-be-repealed-says-up-minister/articleshow/79647967.cms||Deepak Lavania
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Loss of Muslim support for Gazi Fakir’s family||Jaisalmer: The results of panchayat elections in Jaisalmer have increased the worries of the family of Gazi Fakir. It was clear from the election that Congress leader Gazi Fakir is losing his grip on Muslim votes because Gazi’s son and cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad’s brother Amardeen lost to the Congress candidate from his community Janab Khan.Apart from this, the Fakir family could not stop former zila pramukh and daughter of MLA Ruparam, Anjana Meghwal from winning the election. Anjana won from Sam area with a huge margin, which has forced political analysts to believe that now the votes of the Muslim community are slipping away. Anjana and Mohammad’s brother Abdullah Fakir won from their ward in Zila Parishad and both have claimed for Zila Pramukh ticket. In Tuesday’s counting, the Congress won 9 and BJP won one seat and in such a situation, the Zila Pramukh will be of Congress, but there is a confusion over the dispute between two groups. After the assembly elections, the fight between Congress MLA Ruparam and Congress leader Gazi Fakir’s family had intensified over political supremacy. After the allegation of interference of Gazi Fakir’s family in Jaisalmer assembly constituency, there is a cold war going on between Saleh Mohammad and Ruparam. In the panchayat elections, the fight for supremacy reached its peak and the Fakir family tried that Ruparam's son Harish and daughter Anjana lose the election for Zila Parishad, but the Fakir family could not succeed. The Fakir family could not even get Amardeen, who is also the vice president of youth Congress, to win the election from Sam area as an independent candidate. The Fakir family, which had its monopoly in Muslim community, is losing its hold as Amardeen lost to Janab Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/loss-of-muslim-support-for-gazi-fakirs-family/articleshow/79650881.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Municipal polls: Over 14 lakh to cast votes||Jaipur: As the campaigning for elections to 50 municipal bodies in 12 districts came to an end on Wednesday, over 14 lakh voters will cast their votes at 2,622 polling booths on December 11 to elect 1776 ward members. There are 7249 candidates in the fray for the elections to these municipalities. Of the total municipal bodies, there are 43 municipalities and seven municipal councils. There were reports of violence in Nadbai Nagar Palika in Bharatpur district. Two groups indulged in a clash at the time of campaigning. Police reached the spot and took control of the situation. According to Station House Officer (SHO) Narendra Pareek, both the sides lodged complaints and two FIRs have been registered. According to police, the clash was between supporters of independent candidates.Meanwhile, on the issue of petition filed against the election of Jaipur Greater Mayor Saumya Gujjar, district collector and election officer Antar Singh Nehra said as per election rules, there is no provision to make the state election commission (SEC), district election officer (DEO) and returning officer (RO) a party by the court in the matter. “Our reply to the court will be that there is no provision in the election rules to make us a party in the matter.” The district court has sought a reply in this matter from the election commission. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/municipal-polls-over-14-lakh-to-cast-votes/articleshow/79650885.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Quepem local complains against cop||Margao: A citizen from Quepem, in a letter addressed to the director general of police (DGP), has complained against a middle rank policeman attached to the Quepem police station for “extortion” and “undisciplined behaviour.” Pointing out that the policeman has been posted at the Quepem police station since 2006, the complainant has questioned why he hasn’t been transferred even once since then. Police sources confirmed that the policeman has been working at the police station since the last 14 years. “…He never wears his uniform, is always seen in toilet slippers, and never wears even the (police) cap,” the complaint points out. He is mostly found absent on duty but is never marked absent at the Quepem police station, nor does he apply for leave as his duty is adjusted as per his wish. The same can be checked from the duty register,” the complaint reads, further accusing the policeman of demanding money from mining trucks and interstate vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quepem-local-complains-against-cop/articleshow/79650893.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Threats to CM: Court denies pre-arrest bail to accused||Panaji: The sessions court has denied anticipatory bail to 25-year-old Ashish Suresh Naik from Cortalim for sending abusive and threatening messages to kill the chief minister of Goa Pramod Sawant. The court stated that the messages “cannot be taken lightly” because they were addressed to the chief minister of the state. His custody is required to ascertain the purpose in sending the messages, to find out if any other person is involved besides him, and to know whether he is supported or backed by any class/community or person, the court stated. “Whenever such abusive and threatening messages were sent, it creates lot of mental tension in the minds of the family members of the person to whom it is sent,” the court held. “It is in fact a serious crime because all the other family members are also hurt and affected by the said messages. Every person has freedom of speech and his right to express his opinion, but he/she cannot send such messages to any person. In fact, such messages cannot be uploaded on social media,” the court stated, adding that such messages tarnish the name of the person to whom it is addressed. Naik had sent obscene, derogatory, abusive and threatening messages on WhatsApp to the personal number of the chief minister, and after he complained an FIR was registered against Naik. There are three more crimes registered against Naik of similar nature at Ponda, Verna and Curchorem police stations. Advocate J Diukar, representing Naik stated that he didn’t intent to hurt any person but was only trying to put one Jayesh in trouble and had shown the name of Jayesh as sender of the messages. He added that Naik has no criminal antecedents. Public prosecutor Poonam Bharne stated that Naik abused, threatened and also asked for random from the head of the state, the chief minister. Bharne also stated that Naik tried to insult and humiliate both Jayesh and the chief minister via the messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/threats-to-cm-court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-to-accused/articleshow/79650898.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Kochi||NIA must probe threat to Swapna’s life: Thomas||Kochi: Congress MLA P T Thomas on Wednesday demanded an inquiry by the National Investigation Agency into the complaint raised by Swapna Suresh, a key accused in smuggling gold through diplomatic route, that her life is under threat. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Thomas said Suresh, who is in judicial custody cannot be threatened without the knowledge of the chief minister and hence the complaint should be investigated directly by NIA. “State police chief and DGP prisons should be kept away during the inquiry,” Thomas said, adding that an audio clip, purportedly of Suresh, that came out earlier, was linked to this. Suresh had informed the court on Tuesday that four persons visited her in jail and demanded that the names of VIPs should not be revealed and that she should not cooperate with investigating agencies. Thomas alleged that Swapna was threatened by police on behalf of the chief minister. “Why did the chief minister, who heads the home ministry, did not order an enquiry into the incident? It is a mystery,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nia-must-probe-threat-to-swapnas-life-thomas/articleshow/79649688.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Big blaze at Vatva GIDC, 3 units closed||AHMEDABAD: A major fire broke out in a chemical factory and spread to some adjoining units in Vatva industrial area in the city in the wee hours of Wednesday, officials said. There was no report of any casualty, they said. After the fire, the labour and employment department issued closure notices to three chemical industrial units in phase-2 of Vatva GIDC where the fire broke out. The fire was so furious that the Ahmedabad fire and emergency services (AFES) gave a brigade call and deployed 40 fire tenders to douse the flames which continued till late Wednesday evening. The fire also gutted some temporary shelters of construction workers near the factory, but they managed to move out to a safer place in time, additional chief fire officer Rajesh Bhatt said. The blaze started in the chemical unit around 1am and quickly spread to four factories located in the vicinity, said Bhatt, who led the firefighting operation. According to report of the Director Industrial Safety and Health (DISH) officials, fire broke out in units of Jagson Colorchem Ltd, and Matangi Industries LLP, and spread to Bhavin Industries’ office. Director of industrial safety and health P M Shah said that state government has issued a resolution on November 26 mandating that factories will now be required to take NOCs from fire department under Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/big-blaze-at-vatva-gidc-3-units-closed/articleshow/79650903.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala local body polls: Candidates remove posters, repaint walls||ALAPPUZHA: During every election, political parties and their members are an enthusiastic lot when they stick posters and etch graffiti seeking votes for their candidates. But after elections, normally, they will just leave the area as if nothing happened, without giving a second thought to the posters and graffiti. But this time, after local body elections ended in Alappuzha, many candidates – who were working without rest for weeks – set an example as they came forward on the very next day of polling and removed posters, repainted walls and thus eliminating graffiti works. Bairanjith, the LDF candidate from ward 1V of Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat, came out early on Wednesday morning along with his supporters and started removing his posters and cleaning walls that sported graffiti. “We placed our posters and election graffiti on the walls of private persons with their consent. All people allowed us to exhibit our posters and graffiti during campaigning. So, it is our duty to remove them after election. So, we removed all such posters and the like. My friends and party supporters joined me for this exercise. It has become a success like my election campaign,” he said. Like Bairanjith, many candidates followed suit and many on social media witnessed the act and appreciated this change. DP Madhu, LDF candidate from Arattuvazhi ward of Alappuzha municipality, independent candidate from Beach ward Shiju Visvanath, Mary Rani, independent candidate from Thathampally ward were also busy on Wednesday removing posters and election graffiti. They said they will finish the cleaning activity within two days. At the same time, poll officials informed on Wednesday that the final polling percentage of the district stood at 77.35.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/day-after-candidates-remove-posters/articleshow/79649679.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Factory where GCCI chief invested gutted in fire||AHMEDABAD: Ten days after the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) president sought to relax fire safety-compliance norms from the civic body through a representation, a factory where his own company has invested, was gutted in the fire late on Tuesday night. According to the primary report of the Director of Industrial Safety and Health (DISH), one of the two units where fire first broke out was Matangi Industries LLP. When queried, GCCI president, Natubhai Patel, confirmed that his company, Meghmani Organics, has invested in Matangi Industries LLP. When asked about the incident, Patel said, “The representation and the fire incident are separate issues.” Despite the closure report by DISH confirming that fire originated at Matangi Industries LLP, Patel denied the same saying, “Fire spread to Matangi Industries LLP and did not originate there. In fact, the unit was under construction and there was no electrical equipment whatsoever; only raw material was there.” The representation made by GCCI dated November 28, had sought that the validity of a fire safety no objection certificate (NOC) be extended to five years. Currently, a fire NOC issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) is valid for one year. Senior officials of Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) confirmed that Ahmedabad alone witnesses some 400 cases of industrial fire every year. “Even with a year’s validity for fire safety NOC, the compliance towards fire safety is poor with equipment often found unusable,” said a senior official of AFES on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/factory-where-gcci-chief-invested-gutted-in-fire/articleshow/79650900.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Labourer accidentally mowed down by truck||Jaipur: A labourer was killed when a truck unloading gravel accidentally reversed due to which the victim came under the tyre.The family of the victim is yet to claim the body and the accused driver absconded from the spot. The victim and the accused worked together. Cops claimed that they are awaiting FIR from the victim’s family.The deceased was identified as 27-year-old Sohanlal and the incident happened in Sadar police station area.Elaborating on the accident, the officer said, “The victim worked with the accused and they were unloading gravel at a construction site. The driver did not realise that Sohanlal was standing just behind the truck and reversed due to which the victim came under the wheel. He was taken to the hospital, but was declared brought dead. The body was kept in the mortuary and the officer added, “Till now we have not received any complaint that the gravel was illegal. We are yet to start the investigation.” Cops are yet to find the driver who was behind the accident and claimed that they will proceed further only after receiving the complaint from the victim’s family.Although cops have neither confirmed nor denied if it was actually illegal bajri. There is a Supreme Court ban on mining bajri in Rajasthan, but that hasn’t stopped the mafia from spreading its wings. The mining mafia, allegedly operating in collusion with police and state mining department, has set off a blood-letting spree in Rajasthan through attacks on locals who opposed the illegal trade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/labourer-accidentally-mowed-down-by-truck/articleshow/79650887.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: New body will control WB funds||AHMEDABAD: It was in 1987 that the BJP first snatched the reins of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) from the Congress. Those municipal elections were delayed, as the anti-reservation riots had caused major political upheaval. This time it is the Covid pandemic. The delay comes at an interesting moment. This is also the year when the municipal limits of Ahmedabad have grown to 503 sq km from 464 sq km. World Bank (WB) funds of close to Rs 2,500 are also expected this year. “This year the municipal commissioner will place the budget only after the new elected body takes over in February and by March 31, the new general body will have to approve the project,” said a senior standing committee member. Mayor Bijal Patel added, “The political wing’s term will end on December 13 and the last general board will be held one day earlier. All development works which we had cleared will be implemented by the administrator.” Concerning nagarpalikas, chief minister Vijay Rupani late on Wednesday evening directed all chief officers, who will now act as the administrative heads of their municipalities, to carry out the day-to-day operations till the next elections in the absence of the political wing. Of the 51 municipalities in the state, 16 nagarpalikas are in ‘Category A’, 23 in ‘B’, and 12 in ‘C’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/new-body-will-control-wb-funds/articleshow/79650902.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Sarpanch gave nod without panchayat resolution: HC||Panaji: While setting aside the construction licence issued to Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd, the high court has held that the sarpanch could not herself have issued the construction licence “without any backing of the resolution of the panchayat”. Section 47 of the Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, provides that the secretary is also empowered to exercise the powers on matters relating to issue of licence for construction, etc. In pursuance of the resolution of the panchayat, the court observed and added that on this ground alone, the construction licence dated October 5, 2020 issued is liable to be set aside. “According to us, the sarpanch could not have issued the construction licence, without any backing of the resolution of the panchayat,” stated the division bench of the high court comprising justices Mahesh Sonak and M S Jawalkar. “No provision has been brought to our notice under which the sarpanch could have issued such construction licence by making use of the letterhead of the panchayat,” the court further stated. Counsel Gauresh Malik representing the four Molem villagers submitted to the court that the licence was issued to Goa Tamnar by the sarpanch in her personal capacity without there being any resolution of the panchayat to the same. He stated that it is illegal and invalid and submitted that the application of Goa Tamnar ought to have been placed before the gram sabha for discussion and deliberation according to the panchayat’s resolution taken on September 11. For these reasons, he submitted that the construction permission is liable to be set aside and a writ issued to place Tamnar’s application before the gram sabha for discussion and deliberation. Regarding the prayer in the petition seeking a direction to the village panchayat of Molem–Tal to place the application of company before the gram sabha for discussion and deliberation as per the resolution of the panchayat body, the court directed that the application of Tamnar for construction licence be disposed of by competent authorities on their own merits and in accordance with law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sarpanch-gave-nod-without-panchayat-resolution-hc/articleshow/79650909.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Allow foreign capital in Indian banking sector’||Hyderabad: Batting for infusion of capital by foreign investors in India’s banking sector, Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee said India must allow foreign capital because the Indian banking system is capital-starved and in a “zombie” state. “Once we take on the view that the banking sector needs more private ownership, I think restricting it to Indian ownership is a mistake. I think we have some ideological view that Indian capitalists are somehow good capitalists and foreign capitalists bad,” Banerjee said. He pointed out that there have been many payment defaults by Indian capitalists and banking sector is in a “complete mess” due to enormous debt. “There is no way of writing it down unless there is capital inflow from abroad…we have a banking sector that is half dead because they are not lending as they do not have the capital and that capital can come easily from abroad than from India,” he said. The economist stated that a huge part of government fiscal effort, announced as a response to Covid-induced slowdown, was to bail out borrowers and to protect banking sector.  He said that banks will have to be recapitalised to boost growth in the country as currently, credit in India is very expensive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/allow-foreign-capital-in-indian-banking-sector/articleshow/79650906.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||All five organ recipients doing well, says Goa civic body dean||PANAJI: Goa’s deceased donor transplant programme has been named ‘Nave Jivit’ under the State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) after it handled the first case on Monday where five organs – heart, two kidneys, lungs and liver — of Pradhyum Soni, 21, who died of head injuries, were harvested and transplanted to five recipients on Tuesday. ‘All five recipients are doing well, including a 59-year-old suffering from non-ischeamic dilated cardiomyopathy,” Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said. He was speaking at a programme held on Wednesday to felicitate the parents of the deceased donor. Expressing his sadness at their loss, health minister Vishwajit Rane, who presented a memento to the parents, said he is grateful to them for deciding to donate their son’s organs. “We are here to express our gratitude to them. Five people have got a new lease of life due to their son,” Rane said. Bandekar said all faculties concerned of GMC have worked hard since Saturday and that it would not have been possible to attain the results without them. The brain death certification was done by Dr Teresa Ferreira. The lungs were transplanted to a 58- year-old recipient who was on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation and (ECMO) and diagnosed with a post Covid fibrosis while the liver has been successfully transplanted to a 59-year old male admitted to a hospital in Nagpur, Bandekar said. “All three recipients are now doing well. The kidney recipients at GMC are also doing well,” he said. Dr Madhumohan Prabhudesai, head of GMC’s urology department and Dr J P Tiwari, head of nephrology department, handled the kidney transplants. Both kidney transplants were conducted on Tuesday. “This is just the beginning and we have a long road ahead. Goa is now on the organ donation and transplant map of India,” Bandekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-five-organ-recipients-doing-well-says-gmc-dean/articleshow/79650930.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Wheat scam: Six officials arrested for swindling in Sirsa||SIRSA: The crime investigation agency (CIA) wing of Sirsa police has arrested four officials of the food and supplies department and two of the Haryana State Federation of Consumers’ Co-operative Wholesale Stores (CONFED) for their alleged role in misappropriating 15,000 quintals of wheat in 2015. One of the arrested officers had since retired. The arrested officials in this case have been identified as assistant food supply officer (AFSO) Jagatpal Singh, posted at Rania and a resident of Panniwala Mota in Sirsa district; AFSO Narendra Sardana, posted at Sirsa and a resident of Ganesh Vihar, Sector 9, Sirsa; inspector Sanjeev Kundu, posted at Sirsa and a resident of Urban Estate, Hisar; inspector Ravinder Kumar, posted at Sirsa and a resident of Patel Basti, Sirsa; retired sub-inspector Ashok Kumar, a resident of Laxman Nagar, Sirsa; and retired storekeeper of CONFED Mahender Mehta, a resident of Sirsa district. According to the case, during 2015-16, officials of the district food and supplies department had embezzled around 15,000 quintals of wheat by showing fake bills. An investigation was marked after the matter came to the notice of higher officials. The investigation found involvement of 58 depot holders, besides 12 officers. After this, on October 10, 2017, Sirsa city police registered a case on the complaint of then DFSC Ashok Bansal under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document [document or electronic record]), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and the Essential Commodities Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/wheat-scam-6-officials-arrested-for-swindling/articleshow/79650907.cms||Kumar Mukesh
December 10, 2020||Agra||Former MP, MLAs among 159 booked for violating prohibitory orders during protest against farm laws||AGRA: Aligarh police have registered 11 FIRs against 94 identified people, including former MP, MLAs and Samajwadi Party workers and 65 unidentified people, for violating prohibitory orders and Covid-19 guidelines during their protests on Monday and Tuesday expressing solidarity with farmers against the new farm laws. According to police, 11 FIRs have been registered at various police stations, including Kawarsi, Civil Lines, Khair and Tappal on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday as the protests were held without valid permission and violated prohibitory orders clamped in the city. Covid-19 guidelines were also not followed by the protesters, said police. MP Bijendra Singh and former MLAs -- Zamirullah Khan, Jafar Aalam and Thakur Rakesh Singh -- along with several Samajwadi Party workers, were booked under sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 3 of the Epidemic Act, and section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act at Kawarsi police station. Kisan union leaders were also booked. Former Samajwadi Party MLA from Chharra, Thakur Rakesh Singh, was also booked for allegedly assaulting police personnel during the protest. The video of the incident in which he held the collar of a police personnel, after the latter asked the protesters to end their stir, went viral on social media. The FIR was registered against the MLA under section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the IPC at Kawarsi police station. Talking to the media, former MP Bijendra Singh said it is unfortunate that the country's “annadata” (food provider) is fighting for their justified demands and police are not allowing “us” to support them. “We have been booked on the directions of Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath. We have neither flouted the Covid-19 guidelines nor have committed a crime; the situation worse than pre-independence British rule,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/former-mp-mlas-among-159-booked-for-violating-prohibitory-orders-during-protest-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79647989.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||‘Recover fine from info officers’||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has ordered the state information commission to recover the penalty imposed on information officers for their failure to provide information under Right to Information Act on time.The commission imposed fines for not giving timely information by the information authorities, but that penalty amount is not recovered with the connivance of the government officials and there is an outstanding amount of about Rs 2.5 lakh. HC division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Satish Sharma issued the order on a PIL by Tarun Agarwal of Public Against Corruption. Poonam Chand Bhandari, counsel for the petitioner, told the court that the second appeal is made before the State Information Commission for not providing information under Right to Information Act. Under Section 20 of the Right to Information Act, the State Information Commission has the power to impose a fine of up to Rs 25,000 on guilty information officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/recover-fine-from-info-officers/articleshow/79650897.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: SHO suspended, three more cops get notice||PATIALA: A day after the excise department busted an illegal liquor bottling unit and seized 20,000 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA), holograms, bottles and labels of country-made brands at Rajpura in Patiala district, the station house officer of Rajpura City was suspended for laxity. Notices have been issued to SP (D), DSP Rajpura, DSP (D) and CIA in-charge. After the recent hooch tragedy that claimed the lives of 112 person in the state, the police is now investigating to find out if the illegal liquor from this bottling unit was supplied to any wine shops or other places in Punjab. The excise officials claimed that illegal factory in Rajpura seemed to have established around two months ago and the modus operandi of the accused was to pilfer the ENA from tankers and then mix water in ENA-loaded tankers. They added that the pilfered ENA was then mixed with some essence and water to further fill it in bottles at the illegal unit and supply it to liquor smugglers. Punjab financial commissioner (tax) A Venu Prasad said the policy of ‘zero tolerance’ adopted by the Punjab government towards the trade of counterfeit and illicit liquor was being strictly followed. He revealed that under ‘Operation Red Rose’ against illicit liquor trade in the state, the excise revenue had increased by 29% over the previous year. He added, “Due to the increase in the sale of liquor, the excise department has, for the first time, increased the quota of liquor by 15% that resulted in increase of revenue of Rs 785 crore. We had already roped in stringent measures like installation of GPRS on transporting vehicles that used to carry ENA to check the pilferage more minutely. Rajpura and Shambhu areas were adjacent to Haryana and such a factory may have been set up near the National Highway due to strictures on transportation of ENA. The matter is being investigated and it would be ascertained where the liquor was supplied”. Excise Commissioner, Rajat Agarwal appealed to the people of Punjab to immediately report the illicit trade of liquor on the helpline number 98759-61126 of the excise department and said the factory has also been unearthed on the basis of confidential information. “Action is being taken across the state and crack down on such illicit liquor manufacturers and bootleggers in Tarn Taran, Beas, Ludhiana, Hoshiarpur and Amritsar. So far about 13,000 cases have been registered and 11,000 persons arrested.” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sho-suspended-3-more-cops-get-notice/articleshow/79650911.cms||Bharat Khanna
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||MGNREGA: Notices issued to Jothwara BDO, asst engr; 4 officials chargesheeted||Jaipur: Divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Wednesday directed chief executive officer Zila Parishad to chargesheet four officials and issue notices to the block development officer (BDO) of Jothwara panchayat samiti and assistant engineer for irregularities in the measurement of two MGNREGA projects. The junior engineer and village development office (VDO) of Hathojh gram panchayat and junior technical assistant (JTA) and VDO of Sarna Chour gram panchayat have been chargesheeted. In another matter, 12 officials have been chargesheeted for absenting themselves from duty at Kalwar community health centre. The report of the probe committee set up by divisional commissioner to investigate irregularities in two MGNREGA works was submitted on Wednesday.“There are two different works under MGNREGA. The sanctioned amount for the development work at a crematorium in Hathojh gram panchayat was Rs 9.45 lakh. So far, payment of Rs 6.32 lakh has already been made. However, after the probe, it was found that there was an excess payment of Rs 74,305, (10.5% of the actual sanctioned amount). There were irregularities in the measurement of work,” said Kushboo Sharma, tehsildar at the divisional commissioner office.“Similarly, in development work of a model pond at Sarna Chour gram panchayat, the sanctioned amount was Rs 10.86 lakh. The payment made so far in this project was Rs 3.11 lakh. However, the probe revealed that there was an excess payment of Rs 85,411 (which is an excess of 27.42% of the actual sanctioned amount,” she added. In another matter, a doctor at an ayurvedic centre has been chargesheeted for having not found on duty. Sharma instructed all the all officers and employees to work with discipline by ensuring their presence in the office at 9.30 am.Officials were appointed for the WhatsApp group, which has been created to maintain attendance register. District-wise supervision team was also constituted for effective monitoring and tehsildar (Khushboo Sharma) has been made its in-charge. Sharma informed that for effective monitoring of works in the division information technology will be used by the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mgnrega-notices-issued-to-jothwara-bdo-asst-engr-4-officials-chargesheeted/articleshow/79650895.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||India||Unimpressed with government’s offer, more jathas from Punjab to head for Delhi||JANDIALA: Unimpressed with the government’s offer of tweaking the three agri-marketing laws, the farm unions plan to send more jathas to the Delhi border to add impetus to the struggle. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) chief Satnam Singh Pannu told TOI on Wednesday: “The Centre wants not to resolve the farmers’ issue but create a rift between the agitating bodies. We won’t let anyone defame the agitation or divide us.” KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said all offers were meant to buy time, when farmers had made it clear that they wouldn’t settle for anything less than scrapping of these laws. He said the invitation for talks should have gone to all the farm unions of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have sat with them since he had the authority to scrap the laws. Pandher said more than two dozen vehicles left for Delhi’s Kundli border every day and that 10,000 to 20,000 farmers would join them on December 11 to build pressure on the Union government. Border Area Sangharsh Committee president Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “On Wednesday, 250 farmers left for Delhi by 12 vehicles. The Centre’s proposals are not acceptable. The government was trying to complicate the issue and create confusion.” On Tuesday night, the farmers had staged a sit-in at Daburji toll plaza with a “kirtan samagam” and asked passing motorists to support the protest. AAP’s Seema Sodhi said, “Our women volunteers are supplying essential items to the women at the Delhi border. So far, they have distributed 3,000 sanitary pads, and will continue to serve them throughout the protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unimpressed-with-governments-offer-more-jathas-from-punjab-to-head-for-delhi/articleshow/79653602.cms||Yudhvir Rana
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||Car rams into rear of moving truck, two dead||Rajkot: Two men died and their three friends were injured when their car rammed into a truck near Malgam in Kodinar taluka of Gir Somnath district on Tuesday night.The five friends, all residents of Kodinar, were returning home after spending a day in Diu when the accident took place around 9.30 pm. Police said that the car they were travelling in, rammed into the rear part of the truck when the truck’s driver applied sudden brakes. The front body of the car was completely mangled.Two persons identified as Jitu Chudasama (25) and Alpesh Vanza (24) died on the spot. The driver of the car Kush Kamaliya suffered grievous injuries and was rushed to a hospital in Kodinar. He was later shifted to another hospital in Veraval for further treatment. Two other passengers of the car – Bhavdeep Aparnathi and Mohsin Mansuri – received minor injuries.Based on Aparnathi’s complaint, Kodinar police have lodged an offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence against the unidentified driver of the truck. The driver fled from the spot leaving his vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/car-rams-into-rear-of-moving-truck-two-dead/articleshow/79648710.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court defers hearing against Salman Khan for hurting sentiments||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Wednesday deferred hearing on complaints against Salman Khan for hurting sentiments of Scheduled Caste (Valmiki community) while promoting his film ‘Tiger Zinda Hai’ on a TV show in 2017. The next hearing in the matter will be subject to disposal of the similar petitions pending before the Supreme Court. Khan’s counsel Nishant Bora said that two complaints had been filed each in Jodhpur and Churu against Khan stating that he had hurt the sentiments of scheduled caste by using derogatory term for them in a TV talk show presented by Karan Johar during promotion of his film in 2017. “We had moved the high court seeking quashing of these FIRs against Khan,” said Bora, adding that the high court had stayed investigation in both these FIRs. On Wednesday, Bora argued that about half a dozen similar complaints had been field against Khan in the same matter in different police stations across the county and Khan had moved Supreme Court with a prayer to quash these FIRs. “The Supreme Court has already allowed the petition of Khan and has stayed investigation in all these matters,” he said. “So we prayed to the court not to hear the petition until the matter is disposed of in the Supreme Court since all these petitions were similar,” he said. Granting the prayer of Khan’s counsel justice Sandeep Mehta deferred the hearing for eight weeks stating that an identical controversy was reportedly pending before the apex court and investigation of the FIRs in these miscellaneous petitions also has been stayed by the Supreme Court, matter is kept awaiting decision of the petitions pending before the apex court. The Valmiki community had complained against Khan in Rajasthan and other states. Taking note of the complaints, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) had also sent notices to the information and broadcasting ministry as well as police chiefs of Mumbai and Delhi, asking what action they had taken against the actors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-defers-hearing-against-salman-for-hurting-sentiments/articleshow/79650901.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||For Chicalim’s garbage collectors, earmarked waste dumping site serves as bed and bath||VASCO: For waste collector Abdul, life begins at around 8am. Working without a break through the day, he collects the waste from households and shifts it to the earmarked dumping site at Chicalim industrial estate. And as the sun sets, Abdul returns to the same garbage dump to spend the night, a place which is his home. Around 20 garbage collectors of Chicalim village are living in what can be called sub-human conditions, in the same premises where the garbage is dumped. They are huddled into a tiny makehift hut that lacks basic amenities like safe drinking water, bathroom and toilet facilities, forcing them to answer nature’s call in the open. The temporary living arrangment, provided by the garbage contractor who employs the workers, is a tin-covered shed that has some broken cots as beds, while the same space is used to cook meals, even as a nauseating stench wafts around the vicinity. The young workers have left their families back home in Uttar Pradesh in search of employment in Goa. The garbage collectors don’t have any benefits, weekly offs, provident fund, or social security. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, garbage collection has increased due to bio-medical waste which is collected without any protective equipment. The violation of human rights of these workers was extensively debated at the Village Development Committee meeting of the Chicalim panchayat held a week ago. Interestingly, Chicalim panchayat was awarded the best green panchayat by the state government in January 2019. When TOI spoke to Chicalim sarpanch Sebastao Pereira, he said, “Welfare of the workers is the sole responsibility of the garbage contractor as per our agreement. However, as the villagers have been raising concern about the violations of human rights of these labourers, I have asked the contractor to provide them better living conditions.” The panchayat said that it has no land for the workers, and that the contractor will have to make alternate arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/for-chicalims-garbage-collectors-earmarked-waste-dumping-site-serves-as-bed-and-bath/articleshow/79650926.cms||Ruvina Khan
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Kutch village moves Gujarat HC opposing landfill site||AHMEDABAD: Residents of a village in Kutch have moved the Gujarat high court opposing the creation of landfill site on their village land for the Gandhidham municipality. They complained that the authorities did not take their consent before allotting the plot for a solid waste dump on their village revenue land. The bench headed by Justice J B Pardiwala has issued notices to the authorities concerned and sought a response in a week, posting a further hearing for December 15, said the petitioner’s advocate, Shakeel Qureshi. The petition was filed by residents of Vada village of Anjar block in Kutch. The district collector on October 24 allotted a plot for dumping solid waste from the nearby port town of Gandhidham. The village panchayat and residents had been making representations to the authorities since then against the decision to create landfill site in the revenue area of the village, but the authorities did not change their decision. In their PIL, the villagers asserted that the village is 15km away from Gandhidham town and they do not want to allow the village to be converted into a dumping site. They submitted that the landfill site will cause air and water pollution and will have an adverse impact on the people and cattle of the village, which is completely dependent on agriculture and animal husbandry. The PIL contended that the district authorities earlier had to change their decision about the location of landfill site after the high court stayed the creation of such a site at Shinay village. It further argued if Shinay village could be affected, the villagers of Vada will face the same problem. The PIL also contended that while passing the order, the authorities had not consulted the village panchayat or got permission from the Gujarat Pollution Control Board. Thus, the decision was not taken in accordance with the law and should be revoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kutch-village-moves-hc-opposing-landfill-site/articleshow/79650927.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Goencho Avaaz opposes Rs 100cr Liberation Day celebrations||Panaji: Questioning the state government’s motive to spend Rs 100 crore to mark 60 years of Goa’s Liberation, Goencho Avaaz on Wednesday said that faulty policies have pushed Goa into a modern slavery of debt and crony capitalism. Goencho Avaaz has described the celebration as a harsh and cruel joke on the people of Goa who are protesting in all corners of the land and struggling for their very survival on all fronts. Convenor of the NGO, Viriato Fernandes, said the BJP government’s policies are not for the development of the state but for the benefit of industrialists in Karnataka. “Today, Goa is turning into a slave of crony capitalists,” said Fernandes while addressing a press conference in the state capital. “Goa is drowning under a debt of Rs 25,000 crore and they have no plan on how to repay it. Now the government is selling Goa for the benefit of crony capitalists.” Goencho Avaaz said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has failed to protect Goa’s interests and has instead encouraged the Centre’s anti-people and environmentally destructive plans. He also said the state could not increase its financial burden just because elections are around the corner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goencho-avaaz-opposes-rs-100cr-liberation-day-celebrations/articleshow/79650917.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Appointment of Punjab DGP under SC scanner again||CHANDIGARH: The appointment of 1987-batch Indian Police Service officer Dinkar Gupta as Punjab police chief has again come under the Supreme Court scanner. The apex court on Wednesday put the Union government, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the Punjab government, Gupta and ex-DGP Suresh Arora on notice for filing their replies on petitions challenging Gupta’s appointment. The petitions filed by Punjab DGP-rank officers Mohammad Mustafa and S Chatopadhyaya challenging the Punjab and Haryana high court judgment of November 6 upholding Gupta’s appointment as the state police head came up for hearing before the bench comprising Justice S Abdul Nazeer and Justice Sanjiv Khanna. The case is now likely to come up for hearing next month. Earlier, in February, the Supreme Court had declined to intervene in the matter when Mustafa had knocked its door challenging the high court order staying the central administrative tribunal (CAT) judgment in his favour. Appearing for Mustafa, senior advocate Paramjit Singh Patwalia and advocate on record Ejaz Maqbool submitted that both the petitioners were the senior most eligible officers in the list of officers sent by the Punjab government yet the UPSC chose to override their seniority and proceeded to empanel the other three candidates, thereby violating the criteria of seniority as well as merits. It was submitted that then Punjab police chief Suresh Arora, who was not found fit to even record the annual confidential report (ACR) of Chattopadhyaya was allowed by the UPSC to decide upon his empanelment for the post of DGP, which itself showed that the entire proceedings of the empanelment committee were vitiated by bias and malafide. The court was told that in a suo motu drug scam case in the Punjab and Haryana high court, the special investigation team head Chattopadhyaya had filed an affidavit levelling serious allegations against Gupta (present DGP) and Arora (then DGP). Due to this affidavit, instead of Arora, Chattopadhyaya’s ACR was initiated by the home secretary as there was an apprehension of bias. The petitioners also submitted that the high court had reversed the judgment of CAT which had earlier held that the UPSC had carried out Punjab DGP’s selection by using a procedure which was not in conformity with the Supreme Court guidelines and the procedure encouraged favouritism. It was argued that Mustafa, only IPS officer in the country to have received four gallantry awards, was not selected by the empanelment committee as it chose to cherrypick five core policing areas so as to favour certain candidates in complete disregard of the Supreme Court guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/appointment-of-pb-dgp-under-sc-scanner-again/articleshow/79650920.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan high court defers hearing against Salman Khan for hurting sentiments||JODHPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Wednesday deferred hearing on complaints against Salman Khan for hurting sentiments of Scheduled Caste (Valmiki community) while promoting his film ‘Tiger Zinda Hai’ on a TV show in 2017. The next hearing in the matter will be subject to disposal of the similar petitions pending before the Supreme Court. Khan’s counsel Nishant Bora said that two complaints had been filed each in Jodhpur and Churu against Khan stating that he had hurt the sentiments of scheduled caste by using derogatory term for them in a TV talk show presented by Karan Johar during promotion of his film in 2017. “We had moved the high court seeking quashing of these FIRs against Khan,” said Bora, adding that the high court had stayed investigation in both these FIRs. On Wednesday, Bora argued that about half a dozen similar complaints had been field against Khan in the same matter in different police stations across the county and Khan had moved Supreme Court with a prayer to quash these FIRs. “The Supreme Court has already allowed the petition of Khan and has stayed investigation in all these matters,” he said. “So we prayed to the court not to hear the petition until the matter is disposed of in the Supreme Court since all these petitions were similar,” he said. Granting the prayer of Khan’s counsel justice Sandeep Mehta deferred the hearing for eight weeks stating that an identical controversy was reportedly pending before the apex court and investigation of the FIRs in these miscellaneous petitions also has been stayed by the Supreme Court, matter is kept awaiting decision of the petitions pending before the apex court. The Valmiki community had complained against Khan in Rajasthan and other states. Taking note of the complaints, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) had also sent notices to the information and broadcasting ministry as well as police chiefs of Mumbai and Delhi, asking what action they had taken against the actors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/court-defers-hearing-against-salman-for-hurting-sentiments/articleshow/79658103.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Manilal’s murder out of personal enmity: FIR||KOLLAM: Rejecting the claim of the CPM leadership and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan that homestay owner Manilal’s murder at Munroethuruth was a political murder, police noted in the FIR and the remand report that the murder was out of personal enmity. On Sunday night, CPM activist R Manilal, 50, of Nidhi Palace, Villimangalam, and owner of Mayoogham Homestay was stabbed to death. Ashokan, 56, a former Delhi Police personnel, and auto driver Sathyan, 58, of Panikkathara house, who helped the accused escape from the spot, were arrested the same night and remanded the next day. According to the FIR and remand report there was a running feud between Manilal and the accused Ashokan, of Thuppasseril, over tourists to the homestays owned by them. Ashokan had entered into an argument with Manilal on Sunday for bringing tourists from his homestay to ‘Mayoogham’ homestay. Despite pressure from the CPM leadership and chief minister’s open statement that it was a political murder, police took the stand that there should be a comprehensive probe to find the reason behind the murder. CPM district leadership had alleged that Ashokan was a RSS worker and was trained to kill people with a single stab. Rural SP R Ilango said further probe would be conducted to find whether the murder was a premeditated one or had any other reason, besides personal enmity. CPM district secretary S Sudevan, however, said the fact would be out by the end of the investigation. BJP district president B B Gopakumar had claimed that both Manilal and Ashokan were CPM workers. Meanwhile, investigation officer East Kallada inspector Mahesh said that statements of Manilal’s wife Renuka and daughter Nidhi were recorded. The statements of those present at the LDF booth committee office and its surroundings, family members of Ashokan and local BJP workers would be recorded soon. SP Ilango said investigation was on to find out whether there were more people involved in the conspiracy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/manilals-murder-out-of-personal-enmity-fir/articleshow/79649699.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 75% quota for domiciles in private jobs challenged in HC||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s decision to provide 75% reservation in its private industries for the domiciles of the state has been challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The state assembly had passed the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill 2020 for this last month. Industrial Welfare Association Panchkula, a body of several industries operating in the state of Haryana, has filed a petition before the high court against Haryana government’s decision on the grounds that the bill is unconstitutional and against the public interest, as the state had no right to create reservation contrary to Article 16 (2) of the Constitution to secure political goals by creating discrimination. The petition is expected to come up for hearing on Thursday. It has also been argued by the petitioner body that the bill is an infringement of constitutional rights of employers because private sector jobs are purely based on skills and analytical bent of mind of the employees who are citizens of the country having constitutional rights on basis of their education to do jobs in any part of India as provided by the Constitution. They have sought the quashing of the notification dated October 31, 2020, through which the state had notified the provisions of the bill in the official gazette. It has been submitted that the very purpose of reservation is to protect the weak against competition from the open category candidates and not to create reservation on the basis of residence domicile in private sector jobs which are based on skills/mind acumen. "The act of respondent (Haryana government) forcing employers to employ local candidates in private sector vide this bill dated October 31, 2020, is the a violation of the federal structure framed by the Constitution whereby government cannot act contrary to public interest and cannot benefit one class," the petitioner body has submitted. Recently the Haryana state assembly had passed The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill 2020. As per the proposed law, 75% jobs in the new factories/industries or already established industries/institutions would be given to the domiciles of Haryana. The new bill provides for 75% employment to local candidates on jobs having salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various privately managed companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms etc. situated in Haryana, employing 10 or more persons. However the employers will have the option to recruit local candidates from one district up to only 10%. The proposed rule would be applicable only for new openings and would not affect the already working employees. The bill was much awaited as Dushyant Chautala-led Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) had promised in its manifesto to reserve 75% of jobs for the local youth, which constitute a sizeable chunk of nearly 1.83 crore voters of the state, in the industries located in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/75-quota-for-domiciles-in-pvt-jobs-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/79650923.cms||Ajay Sura
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Plea for CBI probe dismissed||Kochi: The high court has dismissed a petition seeking a CBI probe against Paravur MLA VD Satheesan for allegedly receiving foreign funding as part of flood relief. A division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly dismissed a petition filed by Jaison Panikulangara alleging that 500 pounds were collected from each person who attended a meeting held at Birmingham in England in the name of Punarjani Society. The court held that the plea cannot be entertained as the petitioner has not submitted any documents to support the demand for a probe. It was alleged that foreign funding was received in violation of foreign contribution regulation in the name of Punarjani Society following the 2018 floods. The society was formed by the MLA and representatives of local self-government institutions of Paravur region. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/plea-for-cbi-probe-dismissed/articleshow/79649701.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||HC gives girl’s custody to aunt instead of ‘killer’ dad||Jodhpur: Honouring the decision of a 5-year-old girl, the high court here ordered the girl to be sent with her mausi (maternal aunt) instead of her father and grandparents. The girl, who had appeared in the court with her father, charge-sheeted for dowry murder of his wife, clearly pointed to her maternal aunt and maternal grandparent, when asked whom she wanted to go with. The girl’s maternal grandparent Mohan Singh had filed a habeas corpus petition seeking custody of his granddaughter, an eye witness of the murder of her mother by her father and paternal grandparents in Haryana in January this year.But in spite of her statements before the magistrate against her father, the Child Welfare Committee had given her custody to her father Parvinder Singh, who is out on bail. Petitioner’s counsel Deepesh Singh argued that there was an imminent threat to her life if the custody is retained by her father, who has been charge-sheeted for the dowry death of her mother. Division bench of Justice Sandeep Mehta and Justice Devendra Kachhawaha decided to leave the decision on the girl herself and ordered to produce her in the court. On being asked as to whom she wanted to live with, the child categorically stated in presence of her father, his counsel and the petitioner that she wanted to stay with her maternal grandfather and maternal aunt present in the court.“She immediately rushed into the lap of her maternal aunt Sumitra Kanwar and looked to be very happy and satisfied throughout the proceedings,” the bench observed. The court also observed, “Keeping in view the best interest of the child and a genuine apprehension in our mind, if custody of the child is retained with the father, not only will she be deprived of proper upbringing but a serious threat will always lurk about her safety and well being. We are also of the conscious opinion that if the child continues to be with her father, then she will not be able to make an uninfluenced deposition at the trial.” With this observation the court directed that custody of the child be given to the petitioner and his daughter Sumitra Kanwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-gives-girls-custody-to-aunt-instead-of-killer-dad/articleshow/79650910.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Six years on, survey identifies 43,000 industries for relocation in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Almost six years after the proposal, the Haryana government has finally started working on relocation of industries operating from non-confirming areas. To start with, the industries department has identified around 43,200 such units in Faridabad, Rohtak, Panipat and Yamunanagar districts and forwarded its reports to the urban local bodies (ULB) department. Officials of the two department are now working out final plans to be discussed with chief minister office (CMO) in the third week of this month. According to information available, the industries department has bifurcated the survey in two parts. While four cities have been covered in the first part, the remaining cities will be taken up for survey beginning early next year. While 22,500 such units have been identified in Faridabad city, 11,500 are in Panipat, 4,800 in Yamunanagar and 4,200 in Rohtak districts. Officials said the survey reports of Yamunanagar, Faridabad and Rohtak, and Panipat were submitted on November 6, 11 and 13 respectively. The work on relocation of industries began in 2014. Some clusters were planned and created but actual work could not take off for want of survey. “We have done our job. Now it is over to the ULB department, for it to examine the report and create clusters for relocation. All this will be done during the meeting of officials of both the departments that will be chaired by the principal secretary to chief minister,” a senior official of industries department said. Meanwhile, representatives of industries remain skeptical about the project. “We have been hearing about this for the past six years. The question here is about the process of relocation and the affordability for entrepreneurs,’’ said Bhim Rana, president of Dyers Association as well as Federation of Industries Association of Panipat. Mukesh Aggarwal, member of executive committee of Faridabad Industries Association, termed the move as yet another initiative to promote and protect the unauthorised industries in the city. “What is the surety that those allotted space under relocation policy will give up the existing spot. I have serious doubts about it. Anyhow, let the government take some step. We will see then,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-yrs-on-survey-identifies-43k-industries-for-relocation-in-hry/articleshow/79650929.cms||Manvir Saini
December 10, 2020||Goa||Panaji corporation takes down over 60 illegal hoardings||PANAJI: Over 60 illegal signboards and banners were removed in Panaji from the Divja circle to the Dona Paula circle on Tuesday night by the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP). “It is mandatory for commercial establishments to take permission from the authorities to erect signboards. We identified violators and took down their boards,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “In some cases, shop owners sought permission for displaying one board, but erected more than one,” he said. The advertisement fee is calculated based on the size of the board. The amount to be paid is increased by 30%, 50% and 60% for every second, third and fourth board, respectively. “Some of the boards that were taken down had advertisement of liquor, while others shared tourism related information like contact numbers for boat rides. Some restaurants also featured standees of their menu or cuisine. Regular inspections are being conducted across the city and strict action is taken if any unauthorised boards are erected, Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-corp-takes-down-over-60-illegal-hoardings/articleshow/79650931.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, servant held for man’s murder; lover at large||Kota: Fed up with the constant harassment and beating by her husband, a 41-year-old woman in Jhalawar district conspired with her lover and servant to murder her 40-year-old brother-in-law, who allegedly instigated her husband for torturing her.The wounded body of the brother-in-law was on Monday morning recovered from a well in Borekhedi village under Sarola police station of Jhalawar district. The woman and the servant were arrested on Wednesday while the lover is yet to be nabbed. The body of deceased, Siyaram Meena, a resident of Chandaniyakhedi village was on Monday morning recovered from the well in an agriculture field, said SP Jhalawar Kiran Kang Siddhu on Wednesday. The police lodged a case of murder under Sections 302 and 34 of IPC in the matter and initiated investigation, that led to two suspects — identified as Guddi Bai (41), a resident of Chandaniyakhedi and her servant in the agriculture field in nearby Borekhi village Shyam Bheel (30), a native of Chattisgarh, the SP said. The woman, during interrogation, admitted that she, along with her lover identified as Sonu Mali of Sarola village and the servant Shyam Bheel, conspired to murder her brother-in-law Siyaram, on the night of December 6, she said.On the motive behind the murder, the accused woman said that her brother-in-law would instigate her husband, who is mentally unstable, to beat and harass her and that she was fed up with the constant torture, which is why she planned the murder. Accordingly, the three accused called the deceased in the field on pretext of handing him over a torch on Sunday night and when he came close, one of the accused, Sonu Mali attacked Siyaram with a stick from behind and when he collapsed, the servant also launched an attack on him, the accused woman stated and added that the three later pulled his wounded body to the well and threw it into water, the SP said. Efforts to nab the third accused Sonu Mali are underway. The accused woman and the man will be produced before court on Thursday, SHO at Sarola police station Raghuveer Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-servant-held-for-mans-murder-lover-at-large/articleshow/79650918.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC condones delay in Gujarat local body elections||AHMEDABAD: The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted the state government permission to delay local body polls and to appoint administrators for the interim period. It also directed that the currently appointed executive heads of local bodies will discharge the duty as administrators without taking any policy decision. The state government had approached the apex court seeking permission to appoint administrators for the interim period of three months because the tenure of the local bodies is getting over on December 10. The elections have been delayed for three months, but the Gujarat high court’s judgment delivered in 2015 mandates the authorities to hold elections and bring in the new elected bodies after completion of five-year tenure. The state government sought a temporary stay on the HC order citing its inability to prepare for the elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The state election commission has postponed the process of preparation of voters list for three months. On a query by the SC, the state election commission submitted that the elections would be completed before the end of February 2021. After hearing this, the bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan said, “In the meantime, we are of the view that the Chief Executive Officer (whatever designation called in each local body) shall carry on necessary functions without taking any policy decision so that all local bodies will be smoothly run till the newly elected bodies take charge.” The court, however, made it clear that the constitutional provision of Article 243E and 243U, the tenure of elected bodies is only for five years from the date appointed for its first meeting and no longer. “After expiry of the tenure in the month of December 2020, it goes without saying that elected bodies shall cease to function and as submitted fresh steps for constituting the fresh elected bodies shall be undertaken within the time stated hereinabove,” it said. In the meanwhile, the present executive heads of all local bodies will continue to discharge function of administrators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-condones-delay-in-local-body-elections/articleshow/79650937.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Under construction bridge’s slab falls, several injured||Kota: At least a dozen people were injured as the slab of under construction over bridge of Smart City project in front of city mall collapsed on Wednesday late evening. One critically injured has been admitted in the ICU. State government formed a committee to inquire into the matter. Kota district collector Ujjawal Rathore, who reached the spot immediately after the incident told at least 11 persons were injured after one of the slab of the under construction over bridge collapsed late on Wednesday evening.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/under-construction-bridges-slab-falls-several-injured/articleshow/79650922.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||Dozen stray dogs die mysteriously in Morbi||RAJKOT: Over a dozen stray dogs died mysteriously in Ambedkarnagar of Morbi district in nearly 12 hours between November 6 night and November 7 afternoon. Local police initiated an investigation on Wednesday after an NGO approached senior officials on Tuesday. By midnight of November 6, health of six to seven stray dogs deteriorated following which locals called an NGO – Kartavya Jeevdaya Trust – to help the animal. Initially, residents believed that the dogs must have become rabid and even pelted stones at them. A veterinary doctor, who had come along with the NGO president Vishwa Koringa, found that the dogs’ heartbeats were abnormally high and were spitting foam-like saliva. Until the next afternoon, the NGO received several more calls and around 14 to 15 stray dogs succumbed to similar conditions. The veterinary doctor suspected that the animals could have suffered food poisoning. “On November 7, we approached B division police station to investigate the incident, but they refused to look into it as it was concerning stray dogs. We then approached the superintendent of police on Tuesday and made a written representation,” said Koringa. Cops took statements of some locals but could not find any CCTV cameras, while post mortem could not be done as the carcasses were disposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/over-a-dozen-stray-dogs-die-mysteriously/articleshow/79648735.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kochi||Family from Athirappilly gets an unexpected crawly visitor||Thrissur: As Nirmala, whose house is located near Athirappilly waterfalls, opened the door around 5 am on Wednesday, she was in for a shock of her life — a fully grown mugger crocodile was lying in the portico of her house. Nirmala, 48, ran back into her house, screaming and woke up her husband Shaji and other members of the family. “We first tried to drive it away by hitting it slightly with an iron rod. But it was becoming more violent. Then we called up the VSS president, secretary and forest range officer. Our cries had woken up the neighbours too,” said Shaji. Shaji works as forest watchman attached to the Vana Samrakshana Sena (VSS), and occasionally joins MNREGA projects. His son, daughter-in-law and two-and-half-year-old grandson are staying with him. When the crocodile saw people gathering around, it tried to crawl back into the river, falling into a trench in between. Forest officials then lifted it with a rope, with help from local residents. All of them together released it into the waters. It took about a couple of hours to complete the operation. “We remained indoors till the whole operation was over,” said Nirmala, who was yet to recover from the shock. Ajikumar, forest range officer of the area, said river and riverine forests in the Athirappilly area are ideal habitats for crocodiles, due to easy availability of fish. Several crocodiles were spotted there during the recent floods. There were a couple of instances when crocodiles were seen near human settlements, but this was the first time one was located so close to a house. “This is a new kind of man-animal conflict situation. By now, we are familiar with wild animals like elephants, and wild boars, straying into human habitations. New strategies will have to be worked out to avert instances like crawling of crocodiles from water bodies into human settlements,” Ajikumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/family-from-athirappilly-gets-an-unexpected-crawly-visitor/articleshow/79649720.cms||T Ramavarman
December 10, 2020||Goa||Onion rates start to stabilise in Panaji, prices down by half||PANAJI: Retail prices of onions in the Panaji market have started to fall with prices nearly halved and the bulbs now going at Rs 50 per kg. According to traders, this is mainly because of fresh arrivals from the neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra. “While the rates have not fully normalised yet, we are hopeful that the prices will continue to remain in this bracket till December-end. Complete relief from the drastic shortage of onions that we faced this year may come about only in January,” vegetable vendor, Bashir Shaikh said. The wholesale prices of onions have also dropped drastically in the Belagavi markets — from where they’re largely sourced — going at Rs 38 per kg. “The situation has started to stabilise in the wholesale markets of Belagavi, but we’re yet to reach the bracket of ‘affordable rates’. This may take another fortnight or so,” Ramesh Pawale, a supplier from Belagavi said. He said that the stocked-up produce of the crop has been pushed into the markets from Maharashtra owing to which the prices have fallen in Karnataka as well. The ripple effects of the same are therefore being experienced in Goa. “While we are relieved that we’re able to procure onions at Rs 38 per kg as opposed to Rs 80-90 last month, we’re hopeful that the wholesale rate will further drop to Rs 20 per kg in January,” Pawale said. Prices at the horticulture outlets managed by the Goa State Horticulture Corporation Ltd (GSHCL) have also reduced. “Unseasonal rains ruined the onions owing to which a lot of the crop had gone to waste, but now that the rains have receded, the supply has normalised and as a result the prices have also come down,” GSHCL chairman Pravin Zantye said. Owing to the skyrocketing prices of onions, the state government had also commenced sale of subsidised onions sourced from the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation, at fair price shops across the state||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/onion-rates-start-to-stabilise-prices-down-by-nearly-half/articleshow/79650945.cms||Nida Sayed
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||GIS-based solid and liquid waste mgmt in state||Jaipur: Additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development Rohit Kumar Singh on Wednesday said a ‘village sanitation map’ will be prepared and the project under solid and liquid waste management will be GIS-based. Through this, the progress of work in the villages will be reflected on Google map. “Detailed guidelines were prepared for effective implementation of soild and liquid waste management project in the state. It includes methods, techniques to be adopted and the process of preparing DPRs (detailed project report) for solid and liquid waste management,” said Singh while reviewing the progress of the preparation of guidelines for solid and waste management project.  “The project will be GIS-based and the progress of work will be reflected on the Google map. Implementation of this project on the ground is very challenging. Hence, this guidebook has been prepared,” he added. The Convergence for the project will be worked out among SBM-G, MGNREGA and FFC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gis-based-solid-and-liquid-waste-mgmt-in-state/articleshow/79650928.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||India||Govt should listen to farmers: Jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has advised the Centre “to understand the pain of farmers and leave its stubbornness”. While talking to mediapersons in Amritsar on Wednesday, Singh said, “A government is for the people and if the people are angry... it (the Union government) should understand the ‘mann ki baat’ of farmers and immediately scrap all the three laws.” In reply to a question regarding the Khalistani angle to the protest, he alleged that a section of media was towing the government’s line to defame the farmers’ peaceful struggle. “There is a conspiracy to torpedo the farmers’ movement by linking it with Khalistan, which has no concern or connection with the struggle of Indian farmers,” he said. “While the economies of other countries are in downward slide due to the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s only saving grace is the farming sector that has played a crucial role in not only maintaining but accelerating the economic growth,” Singh claimed. He also asked the farmers’ bodies to maintain decorum and stage their protests peacefully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-should-listen-to-farmers-jathedar/articleshow/79653607.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||4 of Hyd family die after car overturns||Hyderabad: Four people died in a road accident at Gudigandla in Narayanpet district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Yellaiah, 55, his wife Govindamma, 55, their daughter Harika, 22, and their relative, Sarada, 56. Yellaiah’s son Vinod, 23, and Sarada’s grandson suffered injuries in the accident. The accident occurred when Vinod, a civil engineer from Badangpet in Hyderabad, along with five of his family members was travelling in a car to Navodaya Medical College in Raichur of Karnataka for orthopaedic treatment on Wednesday. At Gudikandla in Makhtal mandal, Vinod lost control over the vehicle due to speeding.“The car veered off the road and overturned in abutting fields. Four victims, including Vinod’s parents and his sister, died on the spot due to multiple injuries. Vinod and three-year-old Sravik escaped with injuries,” Makhtal police said. Police said Sravik was out of danger, while Vinod’s condition was critical. The bodies were shifted for post-mortem examinaton to Mahbubnagar government hospital. A case was registered under Section 304-A and 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-of-hyd-family-die-after-car-overturns/articleshow/79650980.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four-year-old girl raped by her landlord in Sikar||JAIPUR: In a sordid act of crime, a four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her landlord in Sikar on Tuesday night. While the minor has been taken for medical examination, the 58-year-old accused has been brought to the police station for further questioning in the matter. The girl’s father works as a labour and he along with his son had gone to attend a marriage ceremony in the evening hours. The girl along with her mother were expected to turn up later for the event. The family of the landlord too had gone for the marriage event and he was alone in his portion of the house. The survivour’s mother made the complaint on which a case was registered against the landlord, who is the father of three. According to the complaint, the accused works as a carpenter and was alone as his family had gone for the marriage ceremony. The woman claimed that she along with her husband and two children had been staying in the house as tenants for last 18 months. The complainant maintained that while she was on way to the bathroom of the house, she spotted her child coming out in a “shocked and shattered state” from the room of the landlord. On being asked about, she informed the mother about the crime and claimed that the he had lured her inside his room and forced himself upon her. The minor stated that the landlord had threatened her not to inform anyone about the crime. Getting the information, the police team rushed to the spot and brought the landlord for questioning. Meanwhile the girl was taken for medical examination. Recently a four-year-old girl was sodomised in Alwar’s Thanagazi allegedly by her cousin, who is also a minor, less than a week back. The girl was admitted to the hospital and is undergoing treatment, while the accused has been detained. The minor boy has been booked for sodomy. The incident happened when the accused was alone at home with the child. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-year-old-girl-raped-by-her-landlord-in-sikar/articleshow/79650933.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Kota man duped by Guj-based thugs, gang nabbed in Dungarpur||Udaipur: Dungarpur police nabbed a gang of inter-state thugs who cheated people by alluring them by offer of gold at cheaper price and took away their money.Four persons have been arrested by Bicchiwada police in Dungarpur district on Wednesday who duped a businessman of Rs 3 lakh in lieu of gold at cheaper price.Sagarchand, 59, a resident of Kunhadi in Kota city filed a report claiming that a gang with most of their members based in Bhuj, offered to sell him gold at cheaper rate than the market. The men introduced themselves as Bhavesh Patel, Rizwan, Mohammad Bhai and Imran.They asked him to meet at Nilgiri hotel near Bicchiwada Circle on December 7 and when Jain and his aide met them, they asked him to give Rs 3 lakh and then they would get him the gold. The men took away the money, but did not come back with gold or returned him the cash. Their mobiles were switched off. A special team was constituted to nab the culprits who were arrested on Thursday from Gonga mod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-man-duped-by-guj-based-thugs-gang-nabbed-in-dungarpur/articleshow/79650949.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Jaipur||Constable hangs self in Udaipur||Udaipur: A constable was found hanging from the ceiling fan of a room in Gariyawas area of the city under Hiran Magri police station limits on Thursday morning. Narpat Lal Meena, the deceased was resident of Kachumbara village of Kanod block, who was posted in Udaipur. The room was a rented accommodation of his girlfriend Sumitra Meena and the couple wished to marry, police said. Sumitra told police that they had plans for marriage, however, his family was not in favour of the alliance. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/constable-hangs-self-in-udaipur/articleshow/79650942.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘It’s a people movement and has our absolute support’||The students of Punjab Agricultural Universities have been standing with the farmers right from the outset by putting forth logical explanations as to why the farmers need protection. Now with the escalated protest, some are have made it to Delhi to stand with them. But those who couldn’t make it, tell Mehak Jain that they stand with them in spirit to take the movement forward I would like to appreciate the farmers for their zeal, strength and strategy. They are fighting for the generations to come and are setting an example. A few students are going to Delhi, those who can’t make it, are with them in spirit. We students started green ribbon movement and are trying to hold a dialogue with others about why the laws are detrimental for agriculture. We are also planning for rallies in the coming days. We hope for a decision in favour of the farmers. Shamylee Saini, II year MSc Agricultural Economics We are witnessing a historical movement, probably biggest of our times. Now, as there is a huge build up, focus should be on strengthen it further to push the government to roll back all the three farm laws. Farmers will not settle for anything less than that. Along with farm laws, we should stride forward to get the amendments in the labour laws scraped. Only then we could call this movement, ‘kisan mazdoor ekta’. Vikramjeet Brarh, II Year MSc Entomology I think this is the first time we are witnessing such a well-planned protest. Huge respect for those heroes working in the fields. I am in total support of the farmers. Privatising every sector is not the obvious solution.Therefore, to show our support to farmers, the PAU students are backing them in every possible way. We have come up with the “green-ribbon movement”, wherein discussions, rallies and active social media presence is maintained. We hope for positive results. Simranpreet Kaur, II year MSc Agricultural Economics Farming is our heritage and we respect our heritage. We will definitely go to Delhi at some point to support our farmers. We must keep a vigil so that these black laws come to an end. Varinder Khepar, PhD Chemistry The farmers protest laws which began in Punjab is now national Struggle of farmers against pro-corporate policy of government. I, myself visited Delhi and witnessed thousands of youth participating in kisan morchas for first time. Having signs of worry about their main feeding sector -agriculture. And also hope , as they found the path which needs them , which cannot reach towards destination without young blood.Now farmers from many states are on boundaries of national capital. Asking yes or no from central government About their main demand : end agri.laws .Thousands of women having 'basanti chunnis'(dupatta) as uniform of kisan army are present on 25 km stretch near Tikri border. At night women and men make jaago and march seve wherein kilometres making spirit of protesters high. Volunteer Youth teams move on tractors as vigilance to check security of farmers , needs of farmers. About 2 lakh people stay in trolleys near tikri border. Walk early in morning and start cooking their breakfast. We can guess how hard is life of farmer as they start bathing with cold water before sunrise in this winter season.On more thing is that men and women cook together , work together . youth is now having a goal which was blurred by attack of drugs and pop culture.The 25 km non resident area of highway is most attractive place for locals and harayanvis and now they bring tons of milk , vegetables , fruits , clothes and everything. This activity of support by other sections of society have converted it into 'people's Struggle' not of any specific religion or state.Shopkeepers of the area are happy as they saw secular content of the farm organisations , demands like stop entry of corporates , make more jobs in public sector ,free education and free health care. Amitoz Singh Maan,B.sc agriculture , 2nd year Shubham Anand, PhD Agrometeorology The base of these Farm laws is anti-farmers as it will phase out the MSP and APMC system despite tall claims of the government that these facilities will not be taken back. Government is befooling people as Liberal market, of which government talks about and MSP cannot go hand in hand. The question is that Is there any need of liberalising farming sector at first place? Appeasement of Corporates is the only priority of this government. We as students of PAU need to spread this word and make people realise the need to take a stand against these bills. These bills are not only anti farmer, but anti people, especially the amendment of essential commodities act. Abhishek Dhir, Research Fellow, Dept. Of Climate change and Agrometeorology We are supporting this protest by the farmers as the Farm Laws passed by the BJP led Modi govt are anti farmer in nature. I would further go on to say that these laws are even anti people. These are meant to serve a few corporate houses such as Adanis and Ambanis. These corporates will gain full control over our lands and we (farmers) will work on our own fields merely as labourers. Through amended essential commodities act, they will play with inflation rates. We demand complete roll back of all the three farm laws Sarbjit Kaur, M.Sc. Plant Pathology We should create more awareness among the people of other states regarding farmers protest as well as farm laws. We should be aware about the traps set up by govt to divert the attention of farmers from the major issue.Infact , people are defaming the celebrities like Kangana and Payal who do not play active role in this and swaying away from their main motive. People should stick to the target. Jagjit Singh MSc plant pathology final year student I believe that there can be a different path to solution. Yes, government can’t procure such large quantities of wheat and rice. But, why don’t they think about paving way for other crops. What about crop diversification? A minimum amount should be set for different crops and penalise those who tend to buy below that. Another thing that can be done is strengthening the marketing system for horticultural crops, that will encourage more farmers to engage in different crops. Government can provide incentives to different groups of farmers, to build infrastructure and processing plants, this way gap between 5rs per kg from farmers and 40rs per kg for consumers will reduce and farmer would ultimately earn more. Processing will add more value and ultimately more share for farmers. You want to remove the ‘vicholiyas’, then add the processing units to farming community and remove those traders who without land and farmers work earn most of the consumer’s end money. We don’t need more private players to destroy our farmers, we need to strengthen them. We should stop copying things from west, because situations here are exactly opposite and for once do something, for betterment of our farmers. Tavisha Singh,Ph.D Botany (Ist year) A wave of protests against the three farm bills (anti-farmer) by the farmers' are actually for their freedom from indebtedness and remunerative prices. However, if not accepted then this will lead to a monopoly of trader cartels. In fact, farmers suicides are still continuing are due to mounting debts and such scenarios will set an unrest to all the farmers, citizens and government too. I hope the government to take further actions in favour to the farmers positively. Khushpreet singh sran ,3rd year student,B.sc agriculture I am from Tarkhanwala (bathinda) and was at tikri border site with Bhartiya kisan union (ekta ugrahan). I witnessed the unity of the people and the unity is the main thing due to which this protest is successful. Other is the following rules and regulations by people this ensures the protest to be nonviolent. The People of Panjab and Haryana sit together share food and talk day long. Thousands Women having yellow chunnnis/dupatta as symbolic uniform Bhartiya kisan union (ekta ugrahan).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/its-a-people-movement-and-has-our-absolute-support/articleshow/79650996.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Add lesson on Sonia in syllabus: Congress||Hyderabad: The Congress on Wednesday urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to include the life story of AICC president Sonia Gandhi in school syllabus as a mark of respect to her for playing a crucial role in granting statehood to Telangana. Referring to KCR’s own words that formation of Telangana state would not have been possible without UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said that it is high time that the TRS, as a mark of respect to Sonia Gandhi, include her life story in educational syllabus in the state. He was speaking at an intellectual summit organised at Gandhi Bhavan on Wednesday on the occasion of Sonia Gandhi’s birthday. On December 9, 2009, on the birth anniversary of Sonia Gandhi, the Congress-led UPA government at the Centre had announced the formation of separate Telangana state. “Sonia Gandhi fulfilled her promise and now the TRS government should show its gratitude,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leaders including TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy distributed sarees to poor women tomark the birthday of Sonia Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/add-lesson-on-sonia-in-syllabus-congress/articleshow/79651006.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pre-Covid routine back in Rabindra, Subhas Sarobar||KOLKATA: Starting Thursday, Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar will stay open through the day. KMDA, the keepers of both the premises, has decided to keep the gates open from 5.30am till 6pm. “The minister-in-charge (urban development minister Firhad Hakim, who is also KMDA’s chairman) has given us the instruction to keep the lakes open all day. We are issuing the formal order accordingly,” KMDA CEO Antara Acharya told TOI on Wednesday. A KMDA official added: “We shall change the sign boards with the new timings on Thursday.” The matter of reopening the two lakes is being discussed ever since the Centre issued the Unlock 4 guidelines on August 29. But the decision took some time because of the rising graph of Covid-19 cases in Bengal. Rabindra Sarobar, which is Kolkata’s largest man-made lake sprawling over 192 acres at Southern Avenue, and Subhas Sarobar, the 40-acre lake at Kadapara off EM Bypass, have remained closed from 5pm on March 23. Ever since lockdown restrictions started easing in May, morning walkers and green activists started lobbying for reopening the lakes for morning walks. On June 30, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the reopening of parks and gardens for morning walkers, saying she wanted them to use the lakes to stay fit and healthy. From July 1, the two grounds were opened for three hours — from 5.30am to 8.30am, much to the relief of morning walkers. During the pre-pandemic era, 8,000 to 10,000 morning walkers would assemble at Rabindra Sarobar and around 6,000 at Subhas Sarobar. At present, more than 3,000 walk in Rabindra Sarobar every day and around 1,000 at Subhas Sarobar because people are still reluctant to venture outdoors in the pandemic times. The two premises have been going through graded reopening ever since. On November 2, KMDA opened the two lakes during the evenings as well — from 3pm to 6pm. In October, an hour was extended in the morning window. Environmentalist SM Ghosh said: “We have been reading in newspapers that the gates of the two lakes are going to remain ajar all through the day. We are happy about it because walking and exercises are good for immunity. At the same time, we wish the authorities would make sure that the two premises are kept clean and pollution-free.” The pandemic has done the lakes much good. The number of tortoises has gone up considerably and birds, especially those sighted rarely, are chirping again. The lakes are home to three species of turtles, common toads, bullfrogs, cricket frogs, skittering frogs, squirrels, around 60 species of butterflies and around 30 kinds of dragonflies and snakes. But, as the lakes were kept open for longer time, a lot of garbage, especially plastic, are being dumped in the grounds and the water bodies as well. Plastic is a threat to aquatic life. Recently, dead fish have been spotted floating in the water. KMDA officials said security would be beefed up now that the lakes will remain open throughout the day. Currently, there are 58 security staff are guarding Rabindra Sarobar, including six supervisors. Around 30 are on duty at Subhas Sarobar. KMDA officials revealed that patrolling the premises is a challenge because several CCTV cameras have been lying defunct ever since cyclone Amphan. “We have informed Lalbazar. The CCTC cameras are supposed to be replaced by Kolkata Police,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pre-cov-routine-back-in-lake-subhas-sarobar/articleshow/79649761.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP cadre clash during KTR’s visit to Sircilla||Hyderabad: TRS and BJP workers clashed in Sircilla during municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao’s visit to his constituency on Wednesday. After KTR inaugurated the Munnuru Kapuru Sangham building and was on his way to attend a party worker’s wedding, a group of BJP workers came in front of his convoy. Police removed them from the scene. However, enraged at this, TRS workers allegedly beat up four BJP workers. A two-wheeler was also damaged. BJP workers staged a dharna at the police station demanding that those BJP workers who were arrested be released and also TRS workers who allegedly beat up BJP workers be arrested. A tense situation prevailed for sometime and the BJP workers left after police gave them an assurance that action would be taken. BJP leaders said the party workers had merely tried to reach out to KTR to ask that farmers be given MSP as they were demanding for fine rice variety. The minister inaugurated a 6,000-litre capacity liquid oxygen tank put up at a cost of Rs 40 lakh at the Government General Hospital. Five dialysis units, set up at a cost of Rs 50 lakh, were also inaugurated. He also interacted with patients undergoing treatment. A 50-bed specially fabricated shed, where Covid patients were being treated on the roof of the hospital building, was also inaugurated by the minister. The shed was constructed at a cost of Rs 40 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-cadre-clash-during-ktrs-visit-to-sircilla/articleshow/79651019.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||Powder hidden in sandal turns out to be brown sugar||Rajkot: The powder hidden in the sandal of a man seized by the Rajkot police on December 4 turned out to be brown sugar worth Rs 5 lakh in the domestic market. This was revealed on Wednesday after forensic report confirmed the powder to be brown sugar.The Rajkot police had intercepted Wasim Multani (28) near Maliyasan bus station on Kuvadva road on December 4. During his search, police found some kind of powder in a plastic bag hidden in the heels of the man’s sandals. Police sent the powder for forensic validation which on Wednesday confirmed it to be brown sugar weighing 103.65 gram and worth Rs 5.18 lakh. Talking to TOI, crime branch police inspector V K Gadhvi said, “Multani brought this drug from somewhere in Rajasthan. He had been smuggling the drugs for the last one year and selling it in Rajkot. He himself is a drug addict.” According to police, Multani is a resident of Ramnathpara area and used to sell the drugs in nearby locality. Investigation in the case has been handed over to Kuvadva police station. A team will be sent to Rajasthan to find the mastermind of this drugs smuggling racket. Multani was earlier booked for various offences like theft and under Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/powder-hidden-in-sandal-turns-out-to-be-brown-sugar/articleshow/79648778.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Night curfew eats into food takeaway business in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: With restaurants forced to shut early in the evening because of the night curfew, it is not just the dine-in business that has taken a beating but revenues through takeaways have also been dented. Estimates of Food Entrepreneurs’ Alliance (FEA) in Ahmedabad suggest that 80,000 deliveries a day were recorded during the Diwali period. The number is slightly higher than what the city used to clock before the lockdown. But now, the figures have once again taken a hit. Estimates suggest that deliveries are down to 25% because the majority of people tend to order in during the evening. “Whether it is takeaways or dine-in, at least 85% of the business comes during the evening,” said Rohit Khanna, founder-member, FEA. “Due to the curfew imposed from 9pm, we are forced to shut the restaurant at 8pm even if we are operating on the takeaway-only basis, since our staff needs to make it home in time.” Restaurants which have chosen to operate during the evening hours have begun opening early. “The earliest takeaway orders begin pouring in by 7.30pm and with the curfew in place, it is not possible to cater to customers as even deliveries are shut,” said Rushad Jinwala, a restaurateur. “We start the restaurant kitchen at 6pm to be able to meet customers’ needs early. Walk-ins are few.” Those in the food and beverage segment have in fact asked the government to either relax the curfew timings or exempt takeaways. “The business which picked up so well before Diwali, even while operating at 50% seating capacity, has once again come crashing down,” said Dilip Thakkar, partner at a city-based restaurant. “Most restaurateurs are struggling with operational costs. We hope that the government at least allows takeaways till late so that restaurateurs can sustain their businesses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/night-curfew-eats-into-food-takeaway-biz/articleshow/79651013.cms||Niyati Parikh
December 10, 2020||India||Centre refers to Hooda-led panel’s proposals on reforms to corner opposition||NEW DELHI: In another attempt to embarrass opposition parties supporting the farmers’ protests, the proposal sent by the government to the farmers referred to a committee headed by former Haryana chief minister Bhupendra Singh Hooda, which had recommended repeal or overhaul of the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. Other members of the committee included then CMs Parkash Singh Badal (Punjab), Nitish Kumar (Bihar) and Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal). “In May 2010, a working group on agricultural produce headed by Bhupendra Singh Hooda had been set up. The committee had the then Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, West Bengal and Bihar CMs as its members,” the government said in its letter to farmers’ unions. The government claimed the committee had recommended that restrictions on marketing of agricultural produce be removed. “The committee also recommended that there should not be monopoly on the markets of agricultural produce, neither of mandis of the APMCs nor the mandis of corporates,” the letter claimed. It said the panel had suggested strengthening private sector in marketing of agricultural produce and developing terminal markets with the help of individual entrepreneurs. The reference to the Hooda-led committee came days after BJP circulated letters of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who as Union agriculture minister in 2010-2011 had written to CMs seeking changes in the state APMC Acts to encourage private participation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-refers-to-hooda-led-panels-proposals-on-reforms-to-corner-opposition/articleshow/79653612.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Pilots sight runway amidst fog warning, operate all flights||Kolkata: According to the meteorological department readings, the fog conditions at Kolkata airport on Wednesday lasted longer than Tuesday. Yet, there were hardly any flight disruptions as the higher reading from another instrument installed along the runway allowed nearly all flights to operate on schedule. Readings from the meteorological office at the airport cautioned the air traffic control and pilots about a gradual decline in visibility from 1.30am on Wednesday. By 5am, visibility was down to 50m, the threshold for flight operations to be called off to ensure safety. "Our readings showed visibility remained below 50m for three-and-a-half hours up to 8.30am. Thereafter, it began to improve rapidly," a Met department official at the airport told TOI. Yet, flight operations didn't stop like it had done for two hours on Tuesday when visibility had similarly dipped below 50m. While the instrument landing system at Kolkata airport allows flights to operate till visibility is as low as 50m, any further decline leads to the halting of operations. What made the crucial difference on Wednesday was the reading from another instrument known as the runway visual range (RVR) that gives the measurement of the distance over which a pilot of an aircraft on the centreline of the runway can see the runway surface markings. While the Met’s general visibility report gives the lowest visibility in 360° direction, the RVR is specific to visibility on the runway. “The RVR reading was higher than the general visibility reading provided by the Met. Since a decent stretch of the runway was clearly visible from the cockpit, flight operations continued despite the warning. This isn't uncommon since fog does not spread evenly. While it may reduce visibility to less than 50 m on one side, there may be no visibility issues on the other,” a pilot who operated a flight on Wednesday morning explained. Airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said it isn't unusual for the general visibility and RVR to provide different readings but airport officials and airlines were pleasantly surprised to see the visibility over the runway remain steady all through the morning. “We have had no reported disruption in flight operations. Had the fog been as disruptive as Tuesday, more flights would have been affected as nearly 50 more flights operated on Wednesday,” Bhattacharjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pilots-sight-runway-amidst-fog-warning-operate-all-flights/articleshow/79649771.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Goa||Return to online classes: Congress, GFP||PANAJI: Congress and GFP on Wednesday urged the state government to revert to the earlier practice of conducting classes and exams online. The demand comes after two Covid-19 cases were detected at educational institutions at Usgao and Cujira. Congress’s student wing, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) met with education department officials after the director of education refused to meet their delegation. “The Covid-19 cases among faculty and students have created panic among other students, parents and teachers,” state NSUI president Ahraz Mulla said. GFP’s youth wing on its part has written to the Goa University registrar asking for all classes to be cancelled and for examinations to be held online. “We don’t feel it is right to conduct exams in offline mode when we have an option to conduct them in online mode,” GFP’s youth wing vice president Runal Kerkar said. “Even if standard operating procedures are issued, there is no clarity whether they will be followed with due care as it has also been observed that colleges are not following them. Even after taking precautions, there are chances of students getting infected by Covid more easily.” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said, “Pramod Sawant cannot hold an assembly session because of Covid-19, but he chooses to hold offline exams for Goa’s children risking both their health and education. Here is an example of why we should save Goa now from the Goa chief minister’s cluelessness and inconsideration.” Congress said that there should be an investigation to ascertain how two Covid-19 patients were allowed to enter the educational institutions in Usgao and Cujira. “Government needs to call off all the offline classes and until this is done, we are not going to keep quiet. There is chaos and panic,” Mulla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/return-to-online-classes-cong-gfp/articleshow/79651032.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||NMC’s two UPHCs bag top 2 spots in state-level contest||Nagpur: Two urban primary health centres (UPHCs) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have bagged the first and second place in state-level ‘Kayakalp award’ contest under the Central government’s National Urban Health Mission (NUHM). Indora UPHC has won first prize and Futala UPHC obtained second prize in ‘Kayakalp award’ of 2017-18. Jagnath Budhwari and Shanti Nagar UPHCs were given consolation prizes. Officiating mayor Manisha Kothe, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja and other officials presented cash prizes and awards to doctors and staff of the four UPHCs at a programme held on Wednesday. Under NUHM, the NMC in association with Tata Trusts had developed 26 UPHCs like private clinics. Tata Trusts had given training to staff and facilitated various types of materials for all UPHCs. Tata Trusts even developed state-of-the-art pathology laboratory at these UPHCs. Radhakrishnan said NMC officials and staff should ensure all 26 UPHCs win prizes in the next round of contest. He said a large number of UPHCs across the state had participated in the contest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmcs-two-uphcs-bag-top-2-spots-in-state-level-contest/articleshow/79649783.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Achampet govt hosp doc dismissed||Hyderabad: A doctor working as a medical officer at the Achampet civil hospital was dismissed from service on Wednesday on charges of being negligent towards his work. Nagarkurnool district collector L Sharman ordered the dismissal of Dr Bhikku. The DMHO Dr Sudhakar Lal said Dr Bhikku was dismissed as the collector himself had noticed his negligence. During two surprise visits that the collector made to the Achampet civil government hospital in recent times, it was found that Dr Bhikku had absented himself without even prior intimation. The DMHO said strict action would be taken against anyone being negligent towards their duties. Meanwhile in Nirmal, collector Musharraf Ali Faruqui paid a surprise visit to the area hospital and Maternal and Child Health hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/achampet-govt-hosp-doc-dismissed/articleshow/79651028.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||With three areas on C-list, Ballygunge still a spot of bother for KMC, cops||KOLKATA: The latest containment zone list has five areas from the city — three of them in Ballygunge and one each at Bhowanipore and Ekbalpore. While two towers at Ballygunge Phanri have managed to shed the tag, a fresh one — an entire floor in a multi-storey building at Sunny Park — has been made its way into the list. Incidentally, four of the five containment zones are multiple flats. The one at Rowland Road is the only single unit on the list. However, there is still some confusion over the latest containment list. The KMC health department maintained it was being prepared with the help of local police, the local coordinator and the civic health officer. “The decision is taken based on the number of residents residing close by vis-a-vis the number of infected, whether there are real chances of it spreading through use of common passage and lifts, proximity to markets and a host of local issues. In the case of Ballygunge in particular, there is a repeated outbreak in apartments often in the range of more than seven active cases at any given point of time,” said a KMC health official. The problem has become all the more acute with domestic help and construction works — travelling in local trains — gaining access to apartments. “The festive season and the marriage season has not helped matters either. The area between Elgin road and Ballygunge Phanri is most problematic as the spread of Covid is faster here as compared to any other place,” explained the official. Police though said that unlike in the past, KMC is intimating them about the creation of a containment zone. “We are not receiving instructions from Lalbazar,” said an officer, adding that at almost all places on the containment list, the total number of active cases is declining. KMC has instructed police that restricting the movement will be necessary to stop the spread into Bhowanipore on one side and Karaya on the other — both of which had figured among the worst-infected zones a few months ago. Police sources said that in a departure from the present system, guardrails have been put up across two containment zones. “These zones are in a congested area and see a lot of footfall from outside. There was a need to regulate such movement,” said a KMC coordinator from Borough VIII, which now has four containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-3-areas-on-c-list-ballygunge-still-a-spot-of-bother-for-kmc-cops/articleshow/79649766.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||Five jailed under PASA for ‘naked parade’ in Khambhaliya||Rajkot: Five persons, who had allegedly paraded a man naked on the streets of Khambhaliya town of Devbhumi Dwarka district, were booked under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) and sent to jails in Vadodara and Surat.District collector issued an order in this regard after a proposal was forwarded by the superintendent of police (SP).Two accused — Kirit Bhojani and Bhara Bhojani — were sent to Surat’s Lajpore jail while three others — Kana Bhojani, Pratap Bhojani and Mansi Bhojani— were sent to Vadodara Central Jail.On December 1, they had allegedly kidnapped 38-year-old Chandu Rudach in their car, thrashed him and paraded him naked for nearly 45 minutes in the town. The accused later dropped him outside a police station.The accused were infuriated at Rudach’s rant against them in Facebook live, accusing them of bootlegging and cricket betting. While two of them paraded him in the town, one of the accused made the video and circulate it on social media.Rudach himself has several offences under prohibition and gambling lodged against him.Rajkot range DIG Saurabh Singh had ordered strict action against the accused to ensure that such an incident is not repeated, said deputy superintendent of police Samir Sarda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-jailed-under-pasa-for-naked-parade-in-khambhaliya/articleshow/79648812.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ludhiana||PAUTA president to sit on ‘fast unto death’ today||Ludhiana: After 57 days of protesting, to bring to attention of the authorities the seriousness of the issue, Harmeet Singh Kingra, president, of Punjab Agricultural University Teachers Association (PAUTA), announced that he will go on fast till death with immediate effect until all demands of teachers are met. Kingra said, “During the course of the agitation, teachers were targeted and PAUTA will ensure that these are reversed unconditionally. The incomprehensible attitude of the authorities, particularly the vice-chancellor (VC), has forced the PAUTA to take this decision to prick the conscience of the VC.” Kamaldeep Sangha, former president of PAUTA, said, “No teacher has taken this decision ever in the history. We have raised the demand repeatedly with additional chief secretary Anirudh Tiwari and Bharat Bhushan Ashu and other cabinet ministers of the state government as well as the chief minister, the prime minister and chancellor of Punjab. We have further planned to block Ferozepur Road tomorrow.” Baldev Singh Walia, president of PAU Employees Union said, “The executive of the PAU Employees Union again had a meeting with authorities and a consensus was made over the demands. They will put up the issue before the executive council of the PAU Employees Union and if agreed upon it would be placed before employees and will decide further course of action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pauta-president-to-sit-on-fast-unto-death-today/articleshow/79651030.cms||Mehak Jain
December 10, 2020||Bareilly||Woman commits suicide with childhood lover, three months after being forcibly married off elsewhere||BAREILLY: A 20-year-old woman and her 24-year-old childhood friend committed suicide by hanging in Budaun district on Wednesday, barely three months after she had been married off to someone else against her wishes. Despite repeated efforts, the lovebirds had allegedly failed to convince their kin and community to accept their union. This is the 18th instance of couples committing suicide in Bareilly division since January 2019, and the second this month. The lovebirds lived in the same locality and belonged to the same community, but their families were against “love marriage”, so, following diktats of a panchayat, the woman’s family got her married off against her wishes, police said. The woman, who was living with her parents, was supposed to return to her husband’s house on Friday as part of some rituals. The lovebirds lived next to each other in Mujahidpur village under Civil Lines police station, and were close friends since their childhood. However, family and community were against the relationship as the man, Om Singh Yadav, was poor, and community seniors ruled that “love marriage” wouldn’t last long. They forced the girl to marry another man from Sahaswan in the same district, during the lockdown. On Tuesday, the girl came to know her new husband was about to take her to her in-laws on Friday, so she eloped with Om that evening. The girl’s family tried in vain to search for them. On Wednesday morning, they were found hanging from a sheesham tree outside the village. The girl’s mother said, “My daughter was forcefully taken by Om and forced to commit suicide. She was happily married and was going to her husband’s house soon.” Om’s mother, though, said, “My son was preparing for army recruitment and wanted to serve the nation. I’m shocked by this step. Police should investigate the case as I don’t believe he can commit suicide.” Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma said, “Prima facie, it appears the lovebirds died by suicide. We’ve sent the bodies for autopsy. There is no evidence it was an honour killing, but we’ll wait for the autopsy report and take appropriate action. Both the deceased belonged to the same community.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-commits-suicide-with-childhood-lover-3-months-after-being-forcibly-married-off-elsewhere/articleshow/79647448.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt issues order imposing curbs on stocking of onion||Hyderabad: In an important development, Telangana government on Wednesday issued order imposing restrictions on the stocking of onions. The government order (number 16) issued by civil supplies department imposed restrictions on stocking on onions on up to 250 quintals for wholesale dealers and up to 20 quintals for retailers. The limitations will be applicable till December-end. However the limitations will not be applicable on importers of onions. The state government has taken a decision in the view of prices increasing abnormally in the state. The provisions of the Telangana Onions Dealers (Licensing, Storage and Regulation), Order, 2016 were used to enforce this stock limit. The state government was planning to encourage cultivation of onions in a big way in the wake of regular shortage of onion stocks, and give subsidies to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-issues-order-imposing-curbs-on-stocking-of-onion/articleshow/79651036.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Pvt medical colleges not paying stipend: Protesters||Hyderabad: A protest was held on Wednesday in front of the director of medical education’s (DME) office alleging that private medical colleges in the state were not paying stipend to postgraduate medical students. The protesters demanded that officials conduct an enquiry into the irregularities of private medical colleges with respect to stipends, and initiate action against erring managements. The protesters, who were members of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), submitted a representation to the DME in this regard. “Private medical colleges are depositing money into the students’ accounts to show they are paying stipends, but are taking the money back. If a student questions the management, and refuses to return the stipend, he/she is targeted,” said A Bhanu Prakash, state president, BJYM. The group alleged that this is a scam worth about Rs 150 crore per year as all private medical colleges are following the same procedure. As per MCI guidelines, those doing MD courses (broad-speciality) should be paid a stipend in the range of Rs 44,075 to Rs 48,973. For PG students pursuing super-speciality courses, the stipend is about Rs 48,973 to Rs 53, 859. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-medical-colleges-not-paying-stipend-protesters/articleshow/79651046.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris shuts shops, extends support to farmers’ protest against farm laws||Udhagamandalam: Shops and commercial establishments in all the six taluks in the Nilgiris district downed their shutters on Tuesday in response to Bharat Bandh called by farmers demanding the repeal of the new agriculture laws. The bandh call received complete support in Gudalur, Pandalur, Coonoor and Kotagiri taluks. Except for Ooty town where most of the shops were open, other places in the Ooty taluk extended full support to the bandh by closing the commercial establishments there. However, essential services remained open for the public. Meanwhile, cadres of opposition parties, including DMK and VCK, staged protests in various places across the district demanding the Union government to withdraw the laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-shuts-shops-extends-support-to-farmers-protest-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79632687.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Meerut||Over 5,000 farmers in Bijnor get loan recovery notices, may lose their lands; BKU threatens stir||BIJNOR: A cooperative bank has sent out notices to over 5,000 farmers in UP’s Bijnor district for allegedly defaulting on loan payments, a precursor before the lender seizes the agricultural lands the growers had mortgaged while borrowing the money. According to UP Sahkari Gram Vikas Bank, as many as 5,116 farmers owe around Rs 32crore to it. Assistant registrar of the cooperative bank, Amit Tyagi, said, “There are 5,116 defaulters who had taken loan by mortgaging their agriculture lands. These farmers have failed to repay the loan in time. Therefore, the bank has served notices to them. In the next step, their lands will be seized.” But, when TOI contacted bank officials in the loan section, most of them told that the farmers who mortgage their lands for loan are the last ones to default, unless they are pushed against the wall. A hard look at these farmers’ profile revealed a different side of the story. According to locals, farmers and the farm unions, most of these “defaulters” are sugarcane growers. And for the last several months, they have been waiting for the sugar mills to clear their dues. Some have not even been paid the last year’s dues. Officials said that the mills are yet to pay Rs 350 crore to farmers for the previous season’s crop they had purchased. And, when asked about this season’s payments, the mills said they are yet to calculate it due to the delay by the state government in announcing the State Advisory Price (SAP). Uttar Pradesh, the country’s largest sugar producing state, fixes its own sugarcane price called SAP. The state has not revised its SAP for the last three years. Last year, it was 325 per quintal. Digambar Singh, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) youth wing, said, “Banks are issuing recovery notices to the farmers who have failed to repay the loan which they had taken last year. But no action is being taken against defaulter mill owners. When mills pay the dues in time, farmers will be able to repay their loan. Government should tighten the noose on mill owners to clear sugarcane dues. If farmers are oppressed on the name of recovery notices, we will launch an agitation.” Atul Kumar, a farmer of Rashidpur Garhi village, said, “Most farmers in Bijnor grow sugarcane as it is a cash crop. But for some years, mills are not paying cane grower’s dues in time. The growers are reeling under debt. Most of the farmers receiving notices are mostly sugarcane growers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-5000-farmers-in-bijnor-get-loan-recovery-notices-may-lose-their-lands-bku-threatens-stir/articleshow/79648802.cms||Harveer Dabas
December 10, 2020||India||Punjab marriages turn fundraisers for farmers||BATHINDA/PATIALA: It is marriage season in Punjab and families of brides and grooms are going an extra mile to collect funds for the ongoing farmers’ protest against the agri laws. While a family in Muktsar district asked guests to not get gifts and instead donate for the farmers’ cause, a family in Patiala contributed the entire “shagun” (cash gifted by guests). A family at a village near Malout town of Punjab’s Muktsar district has gone an extra mile to collect funds for the ongoing farmers’ protest against the agri laws. At the wedding reception of his nephew, Jasdeep Singh Brar, sarpanch of a village near Malout town of Muktsar district, made a “no gifts for the bride and groom” announcement. “But donations for support to the farmers’ protest are welcome and those keen on doing their bit are welcome,” he said pointing to a collection box kept nearby. Brar’s family owns farmland and has a commission agent’s shop in Malout. His brother’s son got married on Monday and a reception party was organised in the evening. “A little less than Rs 1 lakh was collected for the farmers during the reception. We added some more to make it a lakh. We will go to the Delhi border on Friday to hand over the money to farmers’ organisations,” Brar told TOI. Flags of farmers’ organisations have been seen in some marriage functions in the last few days in Punjab. Even slogans have been raised at marriage parties in support of farmers. In Nabha town in Patiala district an educated farmer has announced that he will contribute the entire “shagun” during his marriage to help fund the farmers' protest at Delhi borders. Amandeep Sigh, 26, of Duladdi village of Nabha said this during a pre-marriage ritual at his village on Tuesday. “I would donate without mentioning my name as I want to serve the farming community. My father became an “arhtiya” (commission agent) after his health deteriorated and he was unable to work in the fields. I carry out farming along with my uncle Avtar Singh on 50 acres of land, of which I own 20 acres, while 20 acres is owned by my uncle and remaining 10 acres taken on lease,” said Amandeep who is getting married on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-marriages-turn-fundraisers-for-farmers/articleshow/79653626.cms||Neel Kamal
December 10, 2020||Goa||British Trust makes appeal to convert INS Viraat to museum||PANAJI: The proposal to save the decommissioned Indian Navy aircraft carrier INS Viraat from the blow torches at the Alang ship breaking yard may have been rejected by the ministry of defence, but now a British trust, The Hermes Viraat Heritage Trust has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson seeking their intervention. The Hermes Viraat Heritage Trust has appealed to leaders of both the nations to convert Viraat, which served with distinction in the Royal Navy as HMS Hermes, into a floating museum. The trust supports Mumbai-based Envitech Marine Consultants Pvt Ltd’s plan to anchor the 23,000 tonne warship in Goa. “We are united in wanting to save the ship for the future, whether she is located in India, and Goa, or in the UK where the Trust has found a proposed location in the Liverpool area,” said David Campbell Bannerman, the chairman of the trust and former Member of the European Parliament. Speaking to TOI through email, Bannerman said that Liverpool will make an excellent location for the former Indian Navy aircraft carrier. “It (Liverpool) is famous for the Beatles, and a great maritime centre and home of Cammell Laird shipbuilding, who have built many ships that sailed to India,” said Bannerman. In the letter , Bannerman pointed out that the aircraft carrier holds the Guinness World Record for being the longest serving active warship in the world. The Trust has reportedly spoken to international maritime salvage experts to explore the possibility of towing the decommissioned aircraft carrier to the UK from India. Given that the aircraft carrier served as Britain’s flagship in the Falklands war, it has a special significance for the UK. The Goa government along with Envitech offered to convert the warship into a maritime museum which would be anchored in Goa’s waters. This proposal was rejected by the defence ministry on December 4. The ship is currently at Alang where Shree Ram Shipbreakers is preparing to cut up the ship and sell the metal as scrap. Former chief of naval staff, Admiral Arun Prakash, has strongly supported the idea of the aircraft carrier being turned into a maritime museum but referred to the defence ministry’s refusal as “bizarre” and “incomprehensible”. “Author Franz Kafka’s writings gave birth to the term ‘Kafkaesque’: used to describe bizarre or surrealistic predicaments and incomprehensible bureaucratic manoeuvres to stall issues. Viraat NOC seems a good example,’‘ Admiral Prakash said in a tweet. There are some naval officers who see no merits in the maritime museum proposal. “With due respect to the ship and the men who served her, Viraat did not have a great history worthy enough for a heritage status,” said former Naval officer Cdr Atul Gupta. “It had a past of an imported lineage. None of her crew wore Op Vijay star. Vikrant museum already taught us the implausibility of such endeavours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/british-trust-makes-appeal-to-convert-ins-viraat-to-museum/articleshow/79651079.cms||Newton Sequeira
December 10, 2020||Meerut||UP: No FIR, no conversion, but Muslim man held for ‘love jihad’ probe||MEERUT: A Muslim man, 27, and a Hindu woman, 24, fell in love, eloped and started living together. Their parents, while not supportive, didn’t press charges. The woman had not been misled about the man’s religious identity. But now, under pressure from right-wing groups against what they said was a case of “love jihad”, police have been holding the man for questioning and have sent the woman to a shelter. But they don’t know how an FIR could possibly be filed. “The woman said the man hadn’t hidden his identity." "So, we called up her parents, who said they have disowned her but didn’t press charges,” Kankerkheda SHO Tapeshwar Sagar told TOI on Wednesday. An Allahabad high court judgment had weeks ago upheld personal liberty in choosing a partner, referring to interfaith marriages. And under The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religious Ordinance, 2020, conversion from one religion to another by “misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, coercion, allurement or marriage” is a criminal offence. But it’s a difficult case to make for this couple, police added. Yusuf Ahmad and Anshu Singh (name changed) were colleagues at a call centre in Bareilly. When they fell for each other, Anshu’s family was extremely unhappy. They applied for marriage at the Arya Samaj Temple in Bareilly, but it didn’t get processed. As family pressure kept mounting, they ran away to Meerut, where Yusuf got a job and they put up at a rented house. This was four months ago. When their landlord came to know of Yusuf’s religious identity, he told Balraj Dungar, the former west UP convener of Bajrang Dal. Dungar and other members of right-wing outfits banded together at the Kankerkheda police station, demanding action, on Tuesday. “We cannot allow right-wing groups to file a complaint for an FIR because they have no legal stakes,” SHO Sagar said. But they have been holding Yusuf for “investigation” since Tuesday. “If the woman’s parents file a complaint, it will definitely be an offence under the new law,” Sagar added, referring to the ordinance. Dungar insisted there was a conspiracy afoot. “This is nothing but love jihad," he said. But Anshu said she had never been misled: “I know about his faith and still want to marry him. He never asked me to convert. On the contrary, he wants to convert to Hinduism.” She has been sent away to Asha Women’s Centre, a shelter in Meerut. Meanwhile, taking off from the police statement that only the family could file an official complaint, the right-wing groups have got to work. Dungar said, “We have sent a few activists to speak to the woman’s parents in Bareilly today (Wednesday). We will try and convince them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-fir-no-conversion-but-muslim-man-held-for-love-jihad-probe/articleshow/79648822.cms||Sandeep Rai
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||FOKIA inks pact with Pennsylvania trade body||Rajkot: The Federation of Kutch Industries Association (FOKIA) on Tuesday signed an international partnership agreement with Pennsylvania Chamber of Business and Industry, USA for international trade. According to FOKIA, this agreement will help in promoting trade and investment opportunities and establishing a framework for efficient and measurable co-operation between the two organizations. Pennsylvania, the fifth most populous American state, is a producer of ships, iron, chemical, timber, oil, textiles, glass, coal and steel. The total trade between Indian and Pennsylvania was of $3.21 billion in 2019-20. There are over 18 Indian companies operating there and many Pennsylvania-based firms are engaged in various sectors in India like food processing, agriculture, IT and chemicals. The key highlights of the agreement include exchange of legal, economic, financial, and macroeconomic information of both the states to help business opportunities. Helping in capital investment, technology development, educational partnerships and market research will also be part of the deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fokia-inks-pact-with-pennsylvania-trade-body/articleshow/79648830.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||Newly merged areas in Rajkot to get water tanker service||Rajkot: The last standing committee meeting of Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) was held on Wednesday in which the proposals for Rs 20 crore work was approved. The important proposals approved include water tankers to newly merged areas of RMC and localities where there is no pipeline facility. It was also decided to create a flower market in Ramnathpara in central zone after demolishing the old building of Gau Shala (cow shelter). In all, 51 proposals were approved including cement roads paved footpaths for all wards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/newly-merged-areas-in-rajkot-to-get-water-tanker-service/articleshow/79648845.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Complaint filed against comedian Bhalla||Ludhiana: Shri Brahman Sabha, Punjab on Wednesday, has given a written complaint against Punjabi actor and comedian Jaswinder Bhalla, accusing him for hurting their religious sentiments. The complainant alleged that the celebrity had passed remarks against a community. However, Bhalla has refused the allegations. Complainant Vijay Kumar Sharma, advocate and a member of the sabha said Bhalla had released a video related to farmers’ protest, in which he had passed certain remarks, which had hurt the religious feelings of their community. Following this, they gave a written complaint to commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, who marked an inquiry to DCP (law & order) Ashwani Kapur. Meanwhile, Bhalla said, “I respect all religions and have not said any bad words against any community. I only made a video for farmers’ protest with no intention of hurt religious feelings of anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/complaint-filed-against-comedian-bhalla/articleshow/79649838.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Rajkot||Door-to-door vaccination survey in Rajkot begins today||Rajkot: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) will start survey for Covid-19 vaccination from Thursday. A meeting to frame strategies for the vaccination was held on Tuesday. Senior citizens will be asked to provide identity proof to health officials who will start door-to-door survey, said sources. RMC to make the lists of the all the citizens above age of 50. Municipal commissioner Udit Agarwal said “We will prepare a data bank of vulnerable people, like citizens above 50 years and people with co-morbidity like hypertension, diabetes, heart-related issues and the others under 50 years of age. List will be prepared election booth wise.” A statement issued by the RMC said that health officials will start door-to-door survey in which the concerned citizens are requested to provide identity proof other then Aadhaar card like election card, PAN card, passport, driving licence, bank passbook, ID card in case of government servant, health insurance smart card with pension document. This data will be uploaded in a specialized software designed for this purpose by the government and one mobile application will be created by RMC in which all the survey activity will be uploaded.The senior officials of RMC, civil hospital, and the representatives of police department attained this meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/door-to-door-vaccination-survey-in-rajkot-begins-today/articleshow/79648893.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||64 envoys tour city’s vaccine facilities||Hyderabad: A high level delegation of envoys from 64 nations toured the facilities of vaccine makers Bharat Biotech and Biological E in Hyderabad’s Genome Valley on Wednesday to get a first-hand experience of the Covid-19 vaccine development efforts underway in the world’s vaccine capital. The ambassadors and high commissioners from countries in North America, Europe, Asia, Africa, South America and Oceania were visiting at the invitation of the Union ministry of external affairs (MEA) as part of efforts to familiarise the global community about the key Covid-19 related R&D activities being taken up by India. Tweeting about the high-profile visit, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “In a first, a visit of more than 60 Heads of Missions was arranged to the research and manufacturing facilities of the leading biotechnology companies, Bharat Biotech and Biological E, in Hyderabad. The participants were briefed on India’s indigenous efforts to develop Covid-19 vaccines, including ongoing clinical trials.” “As the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, India will contribute significantly to global efforts for producing Covid-19 vaccines. As PM@narendramodi said, India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis,” he tweeted. The top brass of Bharat Biotech led by its chairman and managing director Dr Krishna Ella and that of Biological E headed by its managing director Mahima Datla held detailed discussions with the delegation that was divided into two groups and toured the two facilities turn by turn. The Bharat Biotech management held discussions about Covaxin, India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being developed by the company in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), with as many as 70 representatives of various countries. Covaxin is an inactivated virus vaccine that is being developed and manufactured using the vero cell manufacturing platform at Bharat Biotech's BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) bio-containment facility. The vaccine is undergoing Phase III efficacy studies on 26,000 volunteers across 25 sites in the country. Pointing out that Covaxin has garnered interest from several countries globally, Bharat Biotech joint managing director Suchitra Ella said the high profile visit was a reminder of how the world is looking up to India in the fight against the dreaded Coronavirus. At Biological E, the envoys deliberated on the vaccine candidates under development including the recombinant protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate that the company is working on along with the Baylor College of Medicine, Houston. The vaccine is undergoing Phase I/II trials in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/64-envoys-tour-citys-vaccine-facilities/articleshow/79651085.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: No more Metro e-passes for lean hours, Sundays||KOLKATA: Metro is inching towards the old normal, easing e-pass norms. Starting Monday, the digital passes will be needed only from 8.30am-11am and from 5pm-8pm. No e-passes will be required on Sundays. Women, kids below 15 years and elderly are already exempted from e-passes. Metro Railway will also add 12 services by increasing peak-hour frequency from Monday, taking the total number of trains to 216. The first signs of the old normal were visible this week on the city’s transport lifeline as commuters could access the 24 stations of the north-south Metro from 7am to 8.30am and after 8pm without e-passes. The carrier also inched towards its pre-pandemic timings, starting at 7am instead of 8am. The last trains left the terminal Kavi Subhas and Dum Dum stations at 9.30pm instead of 9pm. This way, 14 more services were added to the 190 available till last week. TimesViewThe resumption of Metro Railway services has been a boon to commuters and significantly eased the city's travel pains. It is up to commuters now to follow the basic norms, like wearing masks, to keep themselves and the city safe.Before Covid, the first and last trains left the terminal stations at 6.45am and 9.55pm respectively. “We are enhancing commuting convenience in phases, considering the Covid-19 situation,” Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi had told TOI earlier. Sanjay Chatterjee, who developed the e-pass technology, said, “The e-pass restrictions are being eased after studying the footfall. Data analysis shows relatively few kids, elderly and women passengers.” Chatterjee said the 400 passenger limit can be maintained if male commuters are allowed without e-passes during lean hours. He said the number of e-pass slots will now be reduced to six. The 8am-10.30pm operations were earlier divided into 14 one-hour slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-more-metro-e-passes-for-lean-hours-sundays/articleshow/79649850.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
December 10, 2020||Goa||GoaMiles and local taxis’ tussle heats up||VASCO: The tussle for customers between local taxi drivers and their GoaMiles counterparts has begun again. In response to an incident in Calangute on Tuesday that saw a GoaMiles driver being heckled and told not to pick up guests from a hotel, taxi drivers of the government-run app-based taxi service staged a retaliation at Dabolim on Wednesday. They stopped tourist taxis from Calangute and surrounding areas coming towards South Goa, especially the Dabolim airport. The Goa Miles drivers alleged that they have been facing harassment from the Calangute cabbies of the Tourist Taxi Association and yellow and black taxis. Vasco police had to intervene and stop the Goa Miles drivers from halting the North Goa taxis and creating traffic chaos. Taxi drivers form Calangute lodged a complaint at the Vasco police station. Vasco police are investigating the case while Calangute police are looking into Tuesday's incident. Meanwhile, after a video showing a GoaMiles taxi being stopped outside a hotel went viral, the North Goa Taxi Operators Association denied members’ involvement in the incident. Altercations between GoaMiles and non-app based taxi operations flares up on and off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goamiles-and-local-taxis-tussle-heats-up/articleshow/79651104.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Calm weather worsens air quality, no respite soon||Kolkata: A thick smog cover suffocating the city for the second consecutive day rendered the air quality “very poor” with the AQI shooting past the 300-mark on Wednesday. The air quality may degrade further with no major change in the weather conditions soon. This is the first dense smog episode in the city this season.The city AQI, which used to plunge as the day passed, remained almost static with minor deviation in the noon and again started rising after the sunset. The AQI at Ballygunge air quality monitoring station, for instance, hovered around 330 and after sunset it rose to 335 at 7pm. For six other stations, the trend was almost the same. Despite a dip, the AQI at Rabindra Bharati University (BT Road, in north Kolkata) remained the highest. At Rabindra Sarobar station, which represents the best possible air of the city, AQI shot beyond 300.According to a WBPCB scientist, very calm atmospheric conditions have trapped the pollutants at a lower level in the atmosphere, leading to a rapid build-up. The wind speed for most of the day remained at or around 0kmph. The extremely calm condition prevented any dispersion of pollutants.Secondary aerosol, which has the highest contribution of PM2.5 to the city’s ambient air in winter, has a role to play in creating the smog, said scientists. According to the Source Apportionment study by NEERI, secondary aerosol has a 32% contribution in PM2.5 pollution during the winter.Air pollution expert Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment said: “To understand this smog episode so early in winter, we looked deeper and scanned the satellite imagery over the city and the eastern region in 2018. This revealed a very interesting trend in the region. The images showed a higher build-up of sulphur dioxide (SO2) over Kolkata. This SO2 mass is more widespread and encompasses Dhanbad, Durgapur and the surrounding region.”This indicates the influence of vehicular emission, coal burning in power plants and industry. In fact, yet another modelling exercise carried out by the Urban Emissions Info indicated that this particular smog episode in Kolkata had been influenced by power plant emissions and domestic use of solid fuels. But it is interesting that the local ambient SO2 concentration in the city is, however, low. There can be transboundary issues involved here,” she added. Because of the higher proportion of PM2.5 in the ambient air, the air becomes highly toxic. The finer particulate matter goes into the lungs unhindered and gets into the bloodstream. “This is extremely dangerous for Covid patients, who often develop extreme breathing distress. Elderly people must not venture out and can do light exercises at home,” said pulmonologist Arup Haldar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/calm-weather-worsens-air-quality-no-respite-soon/articleshow/79649837.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
December 10, 2020||World||Oxford's vaccine won't be available in US until mid-2021 if FDA waits for trial end||Jenner Institute Director Adrian Hill, who oversees the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine research and development, told NBC News that if the US Food and Drug Administration waits for the end of their vaccine trial, the vaccine would not be available in the US until "the middle of next year." "That's too late to take the value of this vaccine, which is effective, available at large scale and easily deployed," he said in remarks tweeted by NBC News on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/oxfords-vaccine-wont-be-available-in-us-until-mid-2021-if-fda-waits-for-trial-end/articleshow/79653638.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||T makes pitch for foreign investment||Hyderabad: Mapping the phenomenal growth of Genome Valley (GV) as the vaccine capital of the world, the Telangana government made a pitch for further investments at GV, before the delegation of envoys touring the campus, on Wednesday. “The idea was to register the presence of a facility such as GV in the minds of these ambassadors and high commissioners and also familiarise them with the entire ecosystem available in Hyderabad that support such businesses,” said Jayesh Ranjan, principal secretary, Industries & Commerce who made the presentation. At least 95% of the ambassadors were visiting the Hyderabad facility for the first time”, he said. During the trip, the state government not only showcased the city’s world-class infrastructure and local talent pool, but also highlighted its investor-friendly policies — such as the TS-iPass — that allow companies to start construction immediately after the land parcel is finalised. “This seemed to impress the delegation, especially when told that, in comparison, it takes anywhere between three and nine months in other states for all approvals to come through,” said Ranjan. The trip, officials said, was largely used to build confidence among representatives of various countries about what Hyderabad could offer in the vaccine and pharma space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-makes-pitch-for-foreign-investment/articleshow/79651087.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||State reports 721 new Covid cases||Hyderabad: Pointing out how usage of masks have gone down drastically, health authorities warned against letting the guard down, even as Telangana reported 721 new Covid-19 Infections and three deaths. Data shows coronavirus cases in the state went up by 200 in four days. “There is a lot of carelessness related to Covid-19 that has seeped in and people are not adhering to norms. The number of people not wearing masks are increasing day by day. It can bring a second wave,” warned Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health Telangana state, urging people not to lower the guard against coronavirus yet. While state health authorities have already sounded an alert of a possible second wave within 10 days of the recently concluded elections of the GHMC, the marked decrease in usage of masks has left them worried. Among districts which saw a sudden jump in cases are Jangaon, Adilabad, Komaram Bheem Asifabad, Nirmal and Nagarkurnool. While the total count or cases stands at 2,75,261 while the death toll has crept up to 1,480. The GHMC area recorded 123 new cases on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-721-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79651091.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Block-level teams for vaccine delivery in West Bengal||KOLKATA: To ensure last-mile delivery of Covid vaccine, the Bengal government on Wednesday formed block task forces (BTF) and asked them to meet on December 17 to work on the vaccine roll-out plans. The move comes after the state started preparing a database of all healthcare workers — in both government and private sectors — and augmenting capacity of cold chain points across Bengal. The BTFs will be the third link of an administrative chain being put in place to handle the logistics for vaccine dispersal after the state and the district task forces. The overall vaccine dissemination will be supervised by a state steering committee. Block development officers will head the BTFs while block medical officers will act as conveners. According to a state notification, the ground-level task forces can also engage representatives from NGOs, local influencers and religious leaders. The BTFs have been advised to ensure that routine health services are not disrupted after the vaccine roll-out. The BTFs have also been cautioned against rumour-mongering. “Maximize the use of local influencers (including religious leaders) for countering misinformation,” the notification read. According to the state government, with the likelihood of Covid-19 vaccine’s introduction early next year, it was imperative to have a strong multi-sectoral coordination mechanism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/block-level-teams-for-vaccine-delivery/articleshow/79649851.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Drones to check Covid rule violations in Kolkata's New Town||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has decided to select an agency to commission, operate and maintain drones in New Town throughout the year to check if social distancing and other Covid safety norms were being followed in the markets and other establishments in the township. Officials said that the drones could also be used to keep regular check on remote corners and rooftops to check for water accumulating — that could lead to mosquito breeding — spray disinfectant or larvicide and make announcements. Four drones will be procured as part of the three-year-project, which is estimated to cost around Rs 3.9 crore. The project will be funded under the Smart Cities Mission by the New Town Kolkata Green Smart City Corporation Limited. NKDA officials said they had conducted a drone surveillance in New Town earlier this year with the help of the police after the Covid lockdown. “The plan is to have proper aerial surveillance in a systematic manner throughout the year,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drones-to-check-cov-rule-violations/articleshow/79649856.cms||Suman Chakraborti
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Husband gave triple talaq from US over phone: Hyderabad woman||HYDERABAD: A 24-year-old woman from the city has alleged that her Somalia-born, US citizen husband gave her ‘triple talaq’ over the phone. She has urged the Union ministry of external affairs to ensure justice for her. The woman, Saba Fatima, from Chandrayangutta, said she had got married to Ahmed in January 2015 while he was in Hyderabad. The nikah (marriage) was performed as per Islamic laws and registered with the Telangana Waqf Board. She said that after the marriage, they used to stay at a rented house in Tolichowki and Malakpet. She said that the now 40-year-old Ahmed had left the country and used to visit her every six months. He last visited her in February 2020, she said. He later went to meet his mother and then travelled to the US where he stayed in Boston. Saba Fatima said that he was in touch with her from Boston, and used to send money for her daily needs. However, on October 6, she said he called up her father and “pronounced talaq without any reason”. “Since then, he has not been in touch with me and has blocked my number. I have tried to reach out to my mother-in-law, who lives in Dubai, and my sister-in-law who lives in London. They first assured me of justice, and later they also blocked my number,” she said. Saba Fatima has urged Union external affairs minister to ask the ministry of external affairs to get through to her husband. Watch Husband gave triple talaq over phone from USA, alleges Hyderabad woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/husband-gave-triple-talaq-from-us-over-phone-city-woman/articleshow/79651102.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Safety first casualty of vaccine race: Varaprasad||Hyderabad: As companies around the world race against time to come up with a viable Covid-19 vaccine, basic tenets of vaccine development like vigorous scientific evaluation and safeensure justicety are being given short shrift, Shantha Biotechnics founder K I Varaprasad Reddy said on Wednesday. “The constraint now is time. The political bosses want it (Covid-19 vaccine) as soon as possible. Our manufacturing companies are also eager to come to market. My concern and worry is safety may be the first casualty of emergency situation,” Reddy said. Addressing participants of the TiE Global Summit 2020 on `Covid-19 Vaccine: How soon is soon? Is there an alternative?’ Reddy said the undue haste to come out with a vaccine was unfortunate. “It’s not even one year and we want a vaccine…ICMR was mentioning by August 15 we will have vaccine, which is not right. The government should be more responsible. With such announcements they are doing disservice to the public,” he said, pointing out that vaccine development takes years with the shortest time of four years taken by Merck’s mumps vaccine. Stressing on the need for vigorous scientific evaluation of each vaccine before approval as human lives are at stake, he said: “In today’s emergency mode we can reduce the development time but not to the level of one year. In this process we sacrifice certain intermittent tests, milestone experiments, evaluation stages…vaccines may have been developed very fast but the regulatory part has to be examined at every stage.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/safety-first-casualty-of-vaccine-race-varaprasad/articleshow/79651106.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||20 of village test Covid+ post wedding||Hyderabad: More than 20 people of a village in Mancherial district who attended a wedding have tested positive for Covid-19. The wedding took place at Dharmaram village of Hajipur mandal on December 2. After a few days, a man who was actively involved in making arrangements at the wedding showed symptoms of the virus. When he got himself tested, he was Covid-19 positive. On December 8, health officials went to the villages and identified all those who were at the wedding. The teams collected swab samples of 91 people and of this 20 tested positive. “We identified more people who attended the wedding and conducted tests for them too” district medical and health officer Dr M Neeraja said. Health officials are also tracing out guests from other villages who had attended the wedding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-of-village-test-covid-post-wedding/articleshow/79651095.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
December 10, 2020||Pune||SPPU invites convocation applications||Pune: Savitribai Phule Pune University has invited online applications from students who would like to be a part of the 118th convocation ceremony of the university likely in March/April, 2021. Students will find details about the form, documents required and fees on the official website convocation.unipune.ac.in. Students can pay the regular fee and apply online between December 8 and 31, pay the late fee and apply between January 1 and 15. Uploading of the final-year mark sheet after filling up the online form and paying fee is necessary..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-invites-convocation-applications/articleshow/79651111.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Quack worked at 3 hospitals, ran own clinic||Hyderabad: A fraudster posing as a doctor has been arrested and later police with the assistance of revenue authorities sealed his clinic at Meerpet X Road. The accused, P Sai Kumar, 35, is a resident of Sathya Sai towers in Meerpet. Acting on specific information, Meerpet police raided Sai Clinic near Meerpet X Roads on Tuesday night and arrested the accused for operating the clinic without having medical degree and other permissions. Police said Sai has been mentioning fake MBBS, MD degrees and registration numbers on the prescriptions and treating patients along with his associate SK Ahmed by charging Rs 150 from each patient. “Sai studied up to intermediate and later worked in a hospital as operation theatre assistant for six years. In 2013, he had started Sai Clinic at Meerpet. He has also been allegedly working as medical administrator-cum-counsellor-cum-general physician and diabetes specialist at three other hospitals. We are checking if he was consulting patients at those hospitals also,” Meerpet inspector M Mahendar Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/quack-worked-at-3-hospitals-ran-own-clinic/articleshow/79651108.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI books FIR against Hyderabad-based infra firm for Rs 137 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation booked an FIR against city-based Kasukurthi Sujata Constructions Private Ltd and its directors for Rs 137-crore loan fraud by cheating Indian Bank. The CBI alleged that the loan amount was diverted and used for personal purposes by the accused. A complaint was filed by Indian Bank, following which the CBI registered the FIR naming the firms MD K Jagan Mohan Rao and directors — K Sujata, K Rajesh, K Radhika and K Mounika. The accused company obtained loans based on false and fabricated audited financial statements, the CBI said. The fraud came to light when a forensic audit was conducted for the period of 2015 to 2018. The company initially started as a partnership firm and later converted into a private limited company. The CBI said the accused submitted false stock statements to the bank in order to conceal the irregularities. “The accused also falsified the book of accounts and wilfully defaulted the loan repayment. The accused caused a loss of Rs 137 crore to Indian Bank (ersthwile Allahabad Bank),” it said. A case of cheating, conspiracy, forgery for the purpose of cheating, using forged documents as genuine and falsification of accounts was booked against the infra company and directors. Sections of Prevention of Corruption Act were also booked. The CBI said all the accused are residents of Habsiguda, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-books-fir-against-infra-firm-for-rs-137cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/79651133.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ryots may miss Rythu sop due to bank, Aadhaar data deficiency||HYDERABAD: With chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao asking officials to credit Rythu Bandhu money into the accounts of eligible farmers from December 27, it is not clear how many farmers will get the benefit as due to technical and Aadhaar linkage issues over three lakh farmers did not get the benefit. At least 3.4 lakh farmers’ bank accounts are not linked with Aadhaar for various reasons and they are not receiving the benefit. So far, nearly 22 lakh farmers did not get the benefit due to various reasons all these years. In the 2018-19 kharif season, nearly five lakh farmers did not get the benefit, while in the next kharif season another 5.78 lakh farmers did not receive Rythu Bandhu either due to their bank details were not furnished or due to technical glitches. In the 2019-20 rabi season, there were limited number of beneficiaries under Rythu Bandhu. Only 47.50 lakh farmers were found to be eligible as against 56 lakh farmers identified in previous seasons. Among the 47 lakh beneficiaries, nearly five lakh did not receive benefit either for deficit bank account details or technical issues. For the 2020 vanakalam (kharif) season, the government has announced that 57 lakh farmers were eligible and it released Rs 7,227 crore for disbursement to them. Nearly four lakh farmers missed benefit this time too. Now, it is not clear whether the government would gather details of these farmers and pass on the aid to them. “Since over 90% framers are being covered, it has not been an issue. Some farmers are not providing details due to their own reasons,” officials said. Meanwhile, state BJP chief Bandi Sajay Kumar, addressing a press conference in Karimnagar, said the party’s Kisan Morcha would hold a three-day protest in the state seeking solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ryots-may-miss-rythu-sop-due-to-bank-aadhaar-data-deficiency/articleshow/79651100.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
December 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Painter sentenced to 20-yr RI||Hyderabad: A painter was sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment in a rape case involving a four-year-old girl. A case was registered against the accused by Jubilee Hills police in 2018. On May 27, 2018, a woman from Yousufguda lodged a complaint alleging that her daughter was sexually abused by the accused Deepu Kumar Srivastav. The complainant sent the girl to a grocery store to buy shampoo and when the girl reached there, the accused who went there to buy gutkha forcibly took her to his room. When the accused started sexually abusing the girl, she started crying. As the girl did not return home, the complainant along with her brother went to the grocery store. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/painter-sentenced-to-20-yr-ri/articleshow/79651112.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Ryots hit Bengaluru streets, call land reform bill pro-rich||BENGALURU: Farmers from different districts staged a ‘barkolu’ (whipping stick) demonstration in the city on Wednesday, protesting the passing of Karnataka Land Reforms (2nd Amendment) Bill, 2020 by the legislative council. The farmers’ groups alleged that the bill would allow acquisition of agricultural land by non-agriculturists, especially the real estate lobby. They displayed ‘barkolus’ (whipping sticks used to herd cattle) to convey that the politicians were not acting in the interest of the farmers and that they need to be taught a lesson. Hundreds of farmers gathered at various parts of the city and chanted slogans against BJP and JD(S), which extended support to the bill on Tuesday. The farmers said the decision to repeal Sections 79(A), 79(B) and 79(C) would remove the income limit for purchasing land, a move that would allow the rich and powerful to take over land owned by small farmers. Traffic in the central business district was thrown out of gear for several hours as all major junctions were blocked by the protesting crowds. In fact, many ryots were stopped at the toll gates and other entry points to prevent them from entering the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ryots-hit-bengaluru-streets-call-land-reform-bill-pro-rich/articleshow/79653635.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||Tata-Yesvantpur Express to resume from Jan 1, Gitanjali Express from Dec 14||Jamshedpur: The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday announced to resume the Tata-Yesvantpur Express from January 1 after passengers in East Singhbhum and the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district repeatedly demanded for the same for the last 10 months. “We have received a notification for resuming the Yesvantpur express,” senior divisional commercial manager (Chakradharpur) Manish Pathak said. The absence of south-bound express trains from Tatanagar in the wake of the nationwide lockdown was turning out to be source of discomfort for the passengers since a majority of them travel to the southern states for medical consultations, besides going for vacations. Needless to say, Wednesday’s announcement was very well-received by the passengers’ association here. ‘We had demanded for the resumption of Tata-Alleppey Express (which runs daily) and Tata-Yesvantpur Express,” U K Srivastava of Chotanagpur Passengers Association said, adding, “But something is better than nothing and we are happy that now we can travel down south easily.” The Tatanagar-Yesvantpur train will originate from Tatanagar at 6:35pm on New Year’s Day and on Tuesday, it will return to Steel City (from Karnataka) at 5:25pm. The zonal railway has also announced the resumption of Howrah-Mumbai Gitanjali Express from December 14. The train will arrive at Tatanagar at 5:40pm from Bengal and it’ll stop for exactly eight minutes before leaving for Maharashtra. In its return journey, the express train will arrive at Steel City at 8:15am and leave for Howrah at 8:25am. “We had been demanding for the continuation of Geetanjali express, which witnesses a rush throughout the year, for months,” S N Pathak of Jamshedpur Passengers’ Association said. Bookings for Geetanjali has commenced while the same for Tata-Yesvantpur is expected to start shortly, sources at Tatanagar railway station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-yesvantpur-express-to-resume-from-jan-1-gitanjali-express-from-dec-14/articleshow/79651109.cms||B Sridhar
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||East Singhbhum cops to take up development work in remote hamlets||JAMSHEDPUR: In a unique initiative, the district police have decided to take up development work in rural areas in a phased manner, officials said on Wednesday. In the first phase, senior police officials of SSP and SP-rank will take adopt 11 villages and ensure that the welfare schemes launched by the state and Union governments are implemented there. The police officials will also make sure that the villagers get their ration cards and the senior citizens get their pension on time. Those finding it difficult to avail the benefits of any welfare scheme can reach out to the cops in their respective villages. SSP Vanan said, “The initiative, taken up by the cops voluntarily, will result in the rapid development of rural areas.” Sources said that SSP Tamil Vanan will adopt Dalapani village (under MGM police station), City SP Subash Chandra Jat will adopt Sari village (under Patamda police station), DSP (traffic) Babban Singh will adopt Chimti (under Boram police station) and DSP (CCR) Arvind Kumar will be responsible for Pilaitand village (under Jadugora police station). The cops will spend 24 hours with the locals once a month in an attempt to boost their morale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/e-singhbhum-cops-to-take-up-devpt-work-in-hamlets/articleshow/79651214.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
December 10, 2020||Surat||Don’t fix amount for cataract surgery, pay full claim: Court||Surat: Valsad District Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission (VDCDRC) has ordered an insurance company to reimburse the full claim amount for a cataract operation to a Valsad resident instead of the amount fixed for the surgery by the insurance firm. According to the case details, Rajiv Shah, a resident of Rajput Complex in Valsad town, had purchased a health insurance policy with Rs 2.5 lakh sum insured from The Oriental Insurance Co Ltd in April 2018. On December 28, 2018, Shah underwent a cataract operation at Amardeep Hospital in Valsad and was admitted as an indoor patient. Later, he claimed reimbursement of Rs 45,632 as medical cost before the insurance company. But Shah received only Rs 24,000. The insurance company deducted Rs 21,632, on the grounds that under the policy only Rs 24,000 was payable to the policyholder for a cataract operation. Shah filed a case against the insurance company before VDCDRC in February 2019 seeking full payment for his medical expanses. While deciding the matter, the consumer court observed that the insurance company has not shown under which terms and conditions Rs 21,632 was deducted from the claim amount. “Moreover, the expense incurred is related to medical services and therefore the complainant is entitled to get full claim amount against the expense incurred by him. The insurance company will pay Rs 21,632 with 7.5% effective from February 24, 2019,” the consumer court observed. The court also ordered the firm to pay additional Rs 2,500 for legal fees, mental and physical stress experienced by the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dont-fix-amount-for-cataract-surgery-pay-full-claim-court/articleshow/79649053.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Vadodara||Sabarmati Exp carnage convict arrested in theft case||Vadodara: The government railway police (GRP) on Wednesday arrested a man convicted in the 2002 Sabarmati Express carnage. Irfan Siraj Pada was arrested for in connection with purse thefts in a train on Vadodara railway station. Irfan was serving life imprisonment in the train carnage case, but had jumped parole last year and was on the run since then.Police said that his name surfaced during interrogation of the other two theft accused. “A complaint of purse thefts in Ajmer-Bandra Express was registered at Vadodara railway police station in July this year. We nabbed two persons, Ishaq and Ashfaq, later. During questioning, they admitted that Irfan too had accompanied them during the thefts,” said K M Chaudhary, GRP police inspector, Vadodara.“Irfan was lodged in Vadodara Central Jail in a murder case. We brought him out on a transfer warrant and interrogated him for a day. He was sent back to the jail on Wednesday evening,” Chaudhary added. While on the run, he took the contract for killing Hiren Patel, vice-president of Jhalod municipality in Dahod earlier this year. Patel was hit by a SUV when he was out for a walk near his home in September. Investigations revealed that he was deliberately hit by the vehicle and murdered. Irfan was later arrested along with three others.GRP officials said that when he was on the run, Irfan used to commit such thefts to earn some quick money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sabarmati-exp-carnage-convict-arrested-in-theft-case/articleshow/79648961.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||40-yr-old woman plotting to kill husband arrested||Hazaribag: Hazaribag police on Wednesday arrested one Rakhi Sinha for allegedly conspiring to kill her husband with the help of her lover and two contract killers earlier this month. The 40-year-old woman was nabbed from her relative’s place at Shivpuri in Hazaribag where she was hiding ever since the cops launched a manhunt to nab her following the trio’s arrest on December 6, police said. Hazaribag SDPO Kamal Kishore said, “The woman has confessed to her crime and admitted that she was having an affair with Nabin Rana who had promised to be with her and her eight-year-old son following the murder.” He added, “She has been charged under Sections 115, 118 and 120B of the IPC. Following a Covid-19 test, the accused was forwaded to Hazaribag Central Jail.” On December 2, police received a tip-off that the woman made a Rs 5-lakh-deal with Nabin, Imdad Hussain and Md Noman for killing her 45-year-old husband — identified as Sanjay Kumar Sinha, an employee at the forest department — on December 6. She paid them an advance of Rs 95,000 and promised to pay the rest from her husband’s death benefit. Upon receiving the tip, Hazaribag SP Kartick S formed an SIT and initiated inquiry on the matter. On December 6, a police team, led by Muffasil police station OC Bajrang Mahato, followed the trio, who had rented a car to go to Gaya where Sanjay lived in a rented flat. The trio was nabbed while they were on their way to Bihar. Upon their arrest, they confessed to their crime and said Rakhi had paid them to kill Sanjay. She had reportedly told them that the front door of the house will be kept open for them and that they should enter immediately and strangulate her husband to death. Mahato said that the miscreants were carrying surgical gloves with them to avoid leaving any finger prints at the crime scene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/40-yr-old-woman-plotting-to-kill-husband-arrested/articleshow/79651323.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||RU’s academic council approves several courses||Ranchi: The Ranchi University’s (RU) academic council on Wednesday approved a host of proposals related to the starting of new courses or tweaking the existing ones in its affiliated colleges, pro vice-chancellor Dr Kamini Kumar, who was present at the meeting, said. Held at the Institute of Legal Studies under the chairmanship of RU vice-chancellor Dr Ramesh Pandey, the varsity has agreed to start a PhD course in mass communication and a B.Ed course, RU sources said. RU also gave its approval for starting PhD courses in Philosophy, Sanskrit, Psychology, Life Science and Social Science. The yoga department in the varsity will be renamed as ‘School of Yoga’ where students can now take up BSc in yogic science. Proposals for starting a fine arts course under the department of performing arts, a certificate course in nuclear geology, medicinal geology and geo-tourism have also been approved. In addition, add-on courses like radio jockey, sound producer, copy writer and radio manager for Radio Khanchi were also approved. The council also gave its in-principle approval for starting course in English in BN Jalan College, Sisai and in view of the demands raised by the students’ union, PG courses in PPK College Bundu and in Simdega College also received the council’s nod. RU also accepted the request made by the principal of Khunti College regarding starting courses in English, Nagpuri and Botany at the institute with 40 students in each department. A PG course in Geography in Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College (Kokar), in English, Botany and Nagpuri in SS Memorial College (Ranchi) and in Hindi, History, Economics, Political Science and Social Science in Silli College were also approved. The RU Covid cell’s proposals regarding changing the date and time of exams and the seating arrangements in the examination halls were also approved at the meeting. The council also gave its consent for an LLM course on a choice-based credit system that was recommended by RU’s board of studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rus-academic-council-approves-several-courses/articleshow/79651294.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘As I leave, I see Gujarat cricket in good shape’||AHMEDABAD: During a virtual interaction with media on Wednesday, the Ahmedabad cricketer said he was very satisfied with his career and felt that this was the right time to retire as there was nothing left to be achieved as a player or as a captain of the Gujarat side. “I was contemplating this for almost a year as there is hardly anything left for me to achieve and I want to spend time with my family. My Gujarat Ranji trophy team, too, is in good shape,” said Parthiv, who represented India in 25 Tests, 38 ODIs and 2 T20Is. The talented wicketkeeper-batsman has definitely been the best captain as far as Gujarat cricket is concerned. Under his leadership, Gujarat cricket reached its peak winning the Ranji Trophy, the Vijay Hazare Trophy (One-Dayers) and the Mustaq Ali Trophy (T20).  "Domestic cricket teaches one a lot and helps one deal with pressure. I have won every domestic title and I feel Gujarat cricket is in right shape," said Parthiv, who scored six Test fifties, which included a fine 69-run knock against Pakistan in Rawalpindi while opening the batting. Captaining Gujarat in the succesful Ranji Trophy campaign in 2016-17 was certainly his most memorable cricketing moment as he transformed Gujarat into a force to reckon with in the domestic cricket. He should also be credited with grooming youngsters like Jasprit Bumrah, Axar Patel, Priyank Panchal and Manpreet Juneja. The left-handed Parthiv scored 1,706 across formats with 934 runs (six half-centuries) coming in Tests. He had 72 dismissals in Tests to his name, which include 62 catches and 10 stumpings. Parthiv, the youngest wicketkeeper to make a Test debut, said Sourav Ganguly and Anil Kumble had the greatest influence in his playing career. "I would rate Sourav Ganguly as a great leader in every sense. He and Anilbhai were great leaders and they made me the kind of person I am," said Parthiv, who scored 736 runs in ODIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/as-i-leave-i-see-gujarat-cricket-in-good-shape/articleshow/79650743.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
December 10, 2020||India||Ask govt to accept farmers’ demands: Opposition netas to President||NEW DELHI: A delegation of five opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday and urged him to ask the government not to be “obdurate” over the farmers’ stir against the new agriculture laws and accept the demands of the farm unions. The delegation comprised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, CPM’s Sitaram Yechury, NCP veteran Sharad Pawar, CPI’s D Raja and DMK’s T K S Elangovan. After the meeting, Rahul Gandhi said that the government should not harbour misconceptions that protesting farmers will capitulate and promised support of the opposition. “They have understood that if they succumb, they will have no future in Hindustan. I am telling farmers, do not feel scared, no one can push you back... You are Hindustan,” he said. Yechury referred to the farmers’ strike as “heroic and historic”, adding the government should repeal the agriculture laws and withdraw the electricity amendment bill. Pawar said the delegation, representing the support and sentiments of over 20 political parties, conveyed to the President that the laws should be discussed and be sent to a select committee. “Bills were passed in a hurry. That is the reason for the reaction from the farm community. Political parties are not involved directly in these protests. But farmers realise that these bills are not protecting their interests. Even minimum support price (MSP) is not mentioned in the bill, which is disturbing. It is the duty of the government to listen,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ask-govt-to-accept-farmers-demands-opposition-netas-to-president/articleshow/79653646.cms||---
December 10, 2020||India||Tougher anti-cow slaughter bill passed||Karnataka legislative assembly on Wednesday passed the anti-cow slaughter bill amid bedlam. The bill increases jail terms and penalties for various offences and empowers police officers to seize and inspect vehicles allegedly used for smuggling of cattle or beef. The bill increases the maximum jail term from one year (as provided in its earlier avatar in 2010) to maximum seven years. The existing penalty of Rs 25,000 has been increased to Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh for various offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tougher-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-passed/articleshow/79653650.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Land resurvey project: AP signs MoU with Survey of India||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy announced the setting up of a state-level land titling authority on Wednesday, following the signing of an MoU with Survey of India to take up land resurvey in the state.  The chief minister also held a video conference with district collectors and joint collectors to discuss the resurvey project. Asking officials to take full responsibility to complete land resurvey with utmost care, he said the resurvey of land and houses will end land disputes. “A comprehensive land resurvey in the state is being taken up after 100 years. We will keep digitalised title details in village/ward secretariat for public scrutiny for two years. We will invite objections about any particular title and resolve all such issues through judicial mechanism. The permanent land/asset title will be issued to the beneficiary two years after the completion of the survey,” Jagan said. The survey would be taken up with advanced technology by using drones and high-resolution cameras. He said the measurement recorded by drones to be used by SOI would be so accurate that there would be very marginal scope for errors. He directed the district collectors to kickstart awareness programmes across the state from Friday by involving ward secretaries and volunteers. He also wanted grama sabhas to be conducted to create awareness among the public from December 14 to 19. The CM further said that the government will set up mobile tribunals at the mandal level, besides district tribunals and state tribunal to resolve the disputes about the survey and title. “The government will bear the entire cost to complete the process of resolution of title. The land/asset title to be issued by the state level land title authority would provide full legal rights on the property to the title owners. The title card would be issued with land owner’s photo and QR code which would be useful for the legal heirs of the title owner in handling all future transactions,” Jagan added. Surveyor General of India, Lieutenant General Girish Kumar, said the Survey of India is proud to join hands with the AP government for the prestigious project. “AP is going to become a model state in the country by taking up a comprehensive resurvey of lands across the state. Our drone cameras can measure the land within five minutes and there would not be deviation by more than three centimetres from the actual record,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/land-resurvey-project-ap-signs-mou-with-survey-of-india/articleshow/79648968.cms||Samdani MN
December 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Goal to transform drought-hit areas into green fields: YS Jagan Mohan Reddy||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Wednesday that the state government is working for the transformation of drought-hit areas into green agriculture fields. The chief minister laid foundation stones for three balancing reservoirs and main canal modernisation works on Upper Pennar in Anantapur district via virtual mode on Wednesday. He said that the government will not lay foundation stones just before the elections to divert public attention as it is committed to keeping its promises. “I am fortunate to take up this project which would benefit several thousands of farmers of Anantapur district who showered their blessings upon me during my previous visits,” said the CM. He explained that the government is committed to provide irrigation water for about six lakh acres and drinking water for about 33 lakh people through Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS). He said that the government is launching works for construction of a lift from Jeedipalli reservoir and four reservoirs-Muttala, Thopudurthi, Devarakonda and Somaravandlapalli to store nearly 5.4 tmc of water. He said that these projects would help cultivate 75,000 acres and also provide drinking water to many villages in the constituency. He said that the previous government had hurriedly laid foundation stone for the construction of one balancing reservoir with Rs 803 crore while they were completing three reservoirs, lift and main canal works with the same amount. “One could easily imagine the scale of corruption during the previous regime,” said the CM. He said that the previous government did nothing except issuing a GO to take up the project in two years before demitting office. He said that the government would store about 7.2 tmc of water during the 90-days flood season and provide water to Beluguppa, Kuderu, Atmakuru, Kambaduru, Kanaganapalle, Chennekothapalle, Raptadu, Ramagiri mandals. He said that the widening of main canal for about 53 km and construction of four balancing reservoirs would be completed as part of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/goal-to-transform-drought-hit-areas-into-green-fields-jagan/articleshow/79648988.cms||Samdani MN
December 10, 2020||India||5,000 UP farmers get recovery notices, may lose their lands||BIJNOR: A co-operative bank has sent out notices to over 5,000 farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor district for allegedly defaulting on loan payments, a precursor before the lender seizes the agricultural lands the growers had mortgaged, reports Harveer Dabas. According to UP Sahkari Gram Vikas Bank, as many as 5,116 farmers owe around Rs 32 crore to it. Assistant registrar of the bank Amit Tyagi said, “There are 5,116 defaulters who had taken loans. The bank has served notices to them.” A look at these farmers’ profile revealed that most of these “defaulters” are sugarcane growers. And for the last several months, they have been waiting for the sugar mills to clear their dues. Officials said that the mills are yet to pay Rs 350 crore to farmers for the previous season’s crop they had purchased. When asked about this season’s payments, the mills said they are yet to calculate it due to the delay in the announcement of State Advisory Price (SAP). Digambar Singh, state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) youth wing, said, “Banks are issuing recovery notices to the farmers who have failed to repay the loan. But no action is being taken against defaulter mill owners... Government should ask mill owners to clear dues. If farmers are oppressed on the name of recovery notices, we will launch an agitation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5000-up-farmers-get-recovery-notices-may-lose-their-lands/articleshow/79653656.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Previous govt overlooked expert committee report on AP capital location: Dushyant Dave||VIJAYAWADA: The arguments in the batch of petitions moved challenging the twin bills intended for trifurcation of AP capital continued in the high court on Wednesday. Senior counsel Dushyant Dave, arguing on behalf of the state government, said while the three capitals decision was taken by the present government by taking opinion of experts in view of larger public good, Amaravati was decided as capital by the then government by considering the opinion of politicians and businessmen. He said the Sivaramakrishnan committee appointed by the Union government following bifurcation of the state clearly stated not to set up the capital between Vijayawada and Guntur. The then state government ignored the report and instead formed Narayana committee comprising politicians and businessmen, with a preconceived mind to benefit certain individuals with vested interests. Dave further argued that capital decision is the exclusive domain of the state government, and interference of courts in matters of legislation is nothing but taking away the rights of elected governments. Advocate general S Sriram, who took over after Dave, explained the timeline of events starting from the state’s bifurcation, appointment of Sivaramakrishnan committee, submission of report, constitution of Narayana committee, announcement of capital between Vijayawada and Guntur, and bringing in of CRDA Act, and urged the high court to look into who participated in the decision-making process on Amaravati. The high court bench comprising Chief Justice J K Maheswari, Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy and Justice Ninala Jayasurya has been hearing petitions challenging the twin bills on a daily basis. Sriram will continue his arguments on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/previous-govt-overlooked-expert-committee-report-on-capital-location-dave/articleshow/79649015.cms||Srikanth Aluri
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||WIN: New initiative to ensure safety of women||Visakhapatnam: Vizag city police have launched a new initiative — Women In Need (WIN) forum— to ensure safety of women and addressing their grievances. Set up by city police chief Manish Kumar Sinha, the forum is aimed at addressing family disputes and disputes between friends, acquaintances or partners. Other problems faced by women due to their gender identity will also be addressed through this forum, which vouches for confidentiality of all data related to complainants. The forum comprises an all women team of officers. The officers nominated by the district collector are: MV Ramana Kumar, CDPO in ICDS project urban-I from the revenue department, GVMC deputy project officer Chandira, and ACP Disha police station Prem Kajal. Speaking to TOI, Vizag city police chief Manish Kumar Sinha said, “Most women do not approach the police or other grievance redressal forums because of inhibitions concerning personal matters. They don’t want to disclose their identities. The distress caused in the lives of women can be addressed through early disclosure in a trusted forum.” Sinha further said that police are busy investigating criminal cases and non-cognisable cases can be addressed in a forum constituted with representatives from different departments who can listen to grievances, offer counselling and work towards dispute resolution. “So we took the lead role in finding resolutions of disputes within the framework of the law. The forum would lighten the investigative load on police stations,” Sinha added. The forum would function from room number 15 of Swarna Bharathi Indoor Stadium on all Tuesdays and Thursdays. Concerned citizens who wish to avail the forum’s services may approach the forum between 10am and 1pm. They can also email their grievances at winvspcity@gmail.com. For emergencies, dial 100 or 181.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/win-new-initiative-to-ensure-safety-of-women/articleshow/79649038.cms||Siva G
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC declares Vizag ‘Water Plus’ city||VISAKHAPATNAM:: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation has self-declared Vizag as a ‘Water Plus’ city. The civic body made a resolution for the same on December 8. The public can submit their suggestions, objections or other concerns on the GVMC’s declaration in the next 15 days in a written format or on GVMC’s mail IDs – gvmc.cmoh2016@gmail.com or gvmcpublichealth@gmail.com. ‘Water Plus’ status - no untreated wastewater is discharged into the open environment – is mandatory for a city to achieve the 7-star rating. According to the GVMC officials, the civic body has made a lot of progress in wastewater and sewage treatment over the years. The state government may have the claim of the city verified through an appropriate third party verification process before formally sending the assessment request to the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Then the MoUHA would conduct a third party verification for the final Water Plus certification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-declares-vizag-water-plus-city/articleshow/79649060.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag’s 1st multi-level parking lot to be ready soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The multi-level car parking (MLCP) facility under construction at Jagadamba Junction in Visakhapatnam will come into operation in a few weeks. With this, Vizag will get a new parking facility after several years. The MLCP, which is being constructed on a 367 square metre plot, will be able to provide parking to 100 cars through a six-level structure consisting of an automatic and a mechanised system. The parking facility has been taken up by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) at a cost of Rs 9.7crore under the Vizag Smart City project. The new parking facility is expected to solve the city’s parking problems to an extent, particularly in and around the bustling Jagadamba Junction. The major objective of the project is to reduce traffic congestion in the area by reducing on-street parking. The MLCP comes with an option of future integration with the City Operations Centre at the GVMC office. Civic body officials recently conducted a trial run of the facility. GVMC superintending engineer (smart city) M Vinay Kumar said that the project would be completed by this month-end.” On the other hand, the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) is soon expected issue tenders for a mega car parking facility at Siripuram Junction. It has already got administrative sanction from the state government. This facility would provide parking to nearly 500 cars and 800 two-wheelers. This proposed eight-storied structure, which would be partly utilised for commercial activities, may cost around Rs 80 crore. As per statistics, Vizag has witnessed a nearly 400 per cent increase in vehicular traffic in the last 15 years. The number of vehicles in the city has gone up from three lakh in 2015 to 13 lakh now. However, no new parking facility has come up in Vizag during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizags-1st-multi-level-parking-lot-to-be-ready-soon/articleshow/79649073.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
December 10, 2020||Business||You’ll get high-speed net via app as govt clears national Wi-Fi grid||NEW DELHI: Soon, you will be able to latch on to a high-speed Wi-Fi network in any part of the country, including remote areas or high-density areas in big cities where signal is generally patchy, and connection to the hotspot will be as easy as opening an app on your smartphone. The government on Wednesday gave permission to setting up of lakhs of public Wi-Fi hotspots, and anyone — from an individual in a residential area (with commercial broadband connection) to a kirana shop owner in your neighbourhood to a tea shop vendor — can provide the facility. The Public Wi-Fi Access Network Interface (WANI), approved by the Union Cabinet, is being seen as revolutionary as the PCO movement of 1990s that enabled millions to get access to easy and seamless public-phone connectivity at minimal cost. And, the method to latch on to public Wi-Fi will be as easy as checking into a WANI-authorised app on your phone. Payments for the usage can range from a few rupees (under Rs 10 for small usage), and will be deducted from a wallet which you load up for the purpose, something similar to the UPI payments network. At one point in time, companies such as Google and Facebook were also understood to be looking at the public Wi-Fi business, though the growth of mobile data connectivity in India and cheap tariffs after the launch of Reliance Jio have dampened their spirits. Only one-time registration will be required with any Wi-Fi provider, and thereafter there will not be any need of re-registration or mandatory authentication as you access the WANI network anywhere across the country. It is inter-operable, making it seamless and hassle-free for users, who may require faster networks when viewing heavy content such as videos, movies, or sports. The idea of setting up public Wi-Fi hotspots was recommended by telecom regulator Trai a few years ago to boost digital connectivity, while also providing a source of income to people in smaller towns and rural areas. “Cabinet today approved the WANI project recommended by Trai. It will create millions of inter-operable Wi-Fi hotspots in the country and democratise content distribution and broadband access to millions at affordable rates. This will be the UPI of connectivity services,” R S Sharma, the former chairman of Trai under whose tenure the proposal was mooted, said. On suggestions of Trai, the government has approved a structure that will lead to creation of Public Data Office Aggregators (PDOAs) at the top, who will then enlist the Public Data Offices or PDOs (like kirana shops or individual households) to provide public Wi-Fi. To make a suitable business case, the government has decided there will not be any licence fee for providing broadband internet through public Wi-Fi networks. Telecom and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the government hopes lakhs of public Wi-Fi hotspots will mushroom across cities, especially in rural and semi-urban areas, giving a further boost to digital connectivity. The measure is expected to take the load off from highly stretched telecom networks, which are generally criticised for poor quality of services. Wi-Fi hotspots will have high-speed optic fibre as the connectivity backbone, while using the last-mile free spectrum to connect to the users. So, they will not add any burden on the existing telecom spectrum network, but rather supplement the infrastructure. To make the system robust and ensure that unwanted elements stay out, the government has stipulated that PDOAs and app providers will need to get themselves registered with the telecom department through online registration portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/youll-get-high-speed-net-via-app-as-govt-clears-national-wi-fi-grid/articleshow/79653695.cms||Pankaj Doval
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||HC quashes FIR against retired civil judge||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has quashed a police complaint against a retired civil judge (senior division) and his family members. Vima Diwekar, the daughter-in-law of the petitioner, had filed a complaint against him and family members at Avdhootwadi police station, Yavatmal. Subsequently, an FIR was registered against petitioner Gautam Diwekar, his wife Anusuya, son Pankaj (husband), Anita Telang (sister-in-law), Niranjan Telang (brother-in-law) and Savita Bagde (sister-in-law) for offences under sections 498A, 34, 504 & 506 of the IPC. The complainant alleged that the accused husband started harassing her immediately after marriage and pressured her to get dowry of Rs3 lakh from her parents. Vima also alleged that she was mentally and physically harassed by petitioners and they wanted her to leave the home. She claimed that there was a threat to her and her children’s lives. Petitioners’ counsel Kartik Shukul assisted by Abhilash Shriwas argued that the FIR was an afterthought and there is no evidence to suggest that the allegations made by the complainant are true. There is a delay of 11 years in filing the FIR, they contended. According to petitioners, the FIR was filed only after the SDO passed an order under the ‘Maintenance & Welfare of Parents & Senior Citizens Act - 2007’, whereby he had granted possession of the house to Diwekar. Having failed to retain possession of the apartment, the FIR was filed to harass the petitioners, the counsel said and added that the house was in the name of petitioner judge and it was duly reflected in the revenue records. A division bench comprising justices Vinay Deshpande and Anil Kilor allowed both the applications of judge and his family members, thereby quashing the FIR registered against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-quashes-fir-against-retired-civil-judge/articleshow/79650331.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Business||Just 10% of employees back in office: Report||BENGALURU: Just 10% of employees had returned to office as of the end of November, compared to the normal levels in March, according to data from WorkInSync, which provides tech solutions for the workplace. That number is less than 5% for the tech cities of Bengaluru and Hyderabad. For Mumbai and Delhi NCR, it is over 20%. Pharma and IT, ITeS and BPO sectors are returning to office at a faster rate (27% and 16% respectively) compared to pure play software product companies where it is a mere 3%. Companies like Infosys, Wipro and TCS still just have about 5% of their total workforce working from offices. In the metros, the number is 10%, but it’s 20% in the rest of India. The data also suggests that women employees are way ahead of their male counterparts in the effort to get back to office. Deepesh Agarwal, CEO of WorkInSync, said the index indicates that the return-to-office levels in the IT, ITeS and BPO sector could reach 50% of pre-Covid levels by May and up to 80% by September next year, with hopes hinging on the vaccine. “Since the phase-2 of re-opening, there has been a consistent upward shift in the way employees have returned to work and that trend will pick up pace in the next few months,” he said. The index is based on WorkInSync's and sister venture MoveInSync's usage data collected with a sample size of over 400,000 employees across India. MoveInSync provides commute solutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/just-10-of-employees-back-in-office-report/articleshow/79653716.cms||Avik Das
December 10, 2020||Vadodara||No bail for Rs 50 crore GST fraud accused||Vadodara: An Ahmedabad resident accused of GST fraud to the tune of Rs 50 crore was denied bail by the sessions court on Tuesday. Mitesh Shah, who lives in Sabarmati, is accused of generating input tax credit by floating fake firms and was arrested on November 24. Shah applied for bail on November 27 stating that he has been named as accused on the basis of the statement of the co-accused Prince Khatri and there is no documentary evidence against him. Opposing Shah’s bail plea, the district government pleader Anil Desai argued that Shah had collected identity and bank documents from the people, through false promises of giving financial assistance. “He used those documents to float 115 companies across the country and of those, GST returns of 14 Gujarat companies were fraudulently obtained,” Desai said. Shah has been in judicial custody since his arrest last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-bail-for-rs-50-crore-gst-fraud-accused/articleshow/79648928.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Surat||VNSGU reduces fees for students in self-financed colleges by 25%||Surat: The executive council of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) has decided to slash fees for students of self finance colleges (SFI) in a meeting held at the campus on Tuesday. The overall reduction in fees in different categories is around 25%Apart from 20% reduction in tuition fees, university slashed students welfare fees to Rs 150 from Rs 300. University has also reduced per student affiliation fees as well. Various colleges are supposed to pay affiliation fees for the academic term every year. The colleges used to collect the fees from students. Student bodies have been demanding reduction in fees since the beginning of the academic year. “Following demand of various student groups, the VNSGU syndicate decided to reduce the fees as academic activities have been affected due to Covid-19,” VNSGU vice-chancellor Hemali Desai told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vnsgu-reduces-fees-for-students-in-self-financed-colleges-by-25/articleshow/79649079.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Business||Big opportunity for consolidation: KKR||KKR has been one of the largest investors in India this year and remains upbeat. KKR India CEO Sanjay Nayar tells TOI that the global investment firm is ready with large pools of capital and is eyeing consolidation opportunities in a fragmented market:In the last few months, you have invested around $3 billion, with the two Reliance deals linked to the digital space. What’s your strategy for the future? Both deals were offshoots of growth capital required by these companies with a big play on digitisation, data, and consumption. Those are the two three themes we love, especially in a massive consumer market like India. JB Chemicals was a good pharma business, and we think we can make it better with the help of the new management. In general, in private equity and infrastructure business, the idea is to do a few bolt-ons to make the companies larger and better. The infrastructure sector is one where a lot of capital will flow in the country in both equity and debt. There is a massive opportunity for consolidation, and even the government is targeting asset monetisation. This sector has traditionally been very fragmented, so we and some of our peers could be big consolidators in the future. We have IndiGrid (an InvIT), Virescent (the platform for renewable energy assets) and then we have the two NBFCs — one for corporate credits and the other for real estate. In private equity, apart from the two big Reliance investments, we have five control situations — JB Chemicals, Max Hospitals, Ramky Enviro, Avendus, and Eurokids. What is the plan for the NBFC, KKR India Financial Services (KIFS), since some assets took a hit and a merger was being pursued? KIFS faced a few troubled credit situations in last 18 months, but we were proactive in taking measures, learning our lessons, and moving on. KIFS is exploring M&A because a standalone wholesale NBFC, post-IL&FS crisis, does not make economic sense. The book needs to be more diversified, so one needs to do something with a retail NBFC, and that KIFS is exploring. How did Covid impact your investments, and what opportunities do you see? The first priority was safety, given that we have frontline companies in hospitals, healthcare, education, and waste management. Then was liquidity, but generally, the banks have been very helpful. Once we phased through three-four months of the pandemic, our companies looked at whether there are opportunities to transform themselves into the new reality (digitisation), raise capital given the market situation was attractive, and do more bolt-on acquisitions. Now, our companies are working to see how we can capitalise on growth. KKR has also been focusing on transmission and renewable assets on the infrastructure side, standalone hospitals, and schools. For instance, KKR recently signed-up a school in Bangalore, and we are in the process of consolidating a few more schools with Eurokids. Given how times have changed, quite a few SME companies would like to become a part of larger corporates. Therefore, we are quite focused on bolt-ons so that our company can get to a larger scale. You were among the people consulted by the RBI panel, and there is a lot of controversy over the proposal to allow corporate houses to set up banks... There will always be critics. India is on track to be a $5-trillion economy and, for that, we need new and innovative avenues of credit supply that cannot be sufficed by a few public and private banks alone. Some of the NBFCs have become very large with differentiated risk management and are doing a pretty good job. They should be allowed to convert to banks if they want to. The question then is if some of them are owned by corporate houses, how does one view that? The IWG report emphas is that a non-operating financial holding company (NOFHC) is a preferred holding company route for these banks and will help separate the other businesses from the lending business. This is not the same as a corporate house getting into lending, it is just a conglomerate which happens to have a big financing business wanting to become a bank. They should be allowed if they fulfil the fit and proper criteria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/big-opportunity-for-consolidation-kkr/articleshow/79653740.cms||Sidhartha
December 10, 2020||Nagpur||$3 trillion: Global spend on health care due to air pollution||Nagpur: Countries have spent an estimated $3 trillion on health care as a result of air pollution. This is over 5% of GDP in China, India, Bangladesh, Serbia, Romania and Hungary among other countries. This was revealed in the ‘The Paris Effect: How the climate agreement is reshaping the global economy’, a report released by global consultancy SYSTEMIQ. The report assesses the pace and scale of change since the Paris Agreement on climate change was signed by many countries in 2015. It also synthesizes existing research and analysis of the past five years' economic, social and political trends. The experts who did the analysis said that shifting to electric vehicles and reducing the total number of cars on the road can dramatically improve air pollution, which is a driver of significant health costs. “A minimal increase in pollution leads to an 11% increase in a country’s rate of mortality related to Covid-19,” the report says. The analysis reveals that since the Paris Agreement, progress on low-carbon solutions and markets has been faster. “Low-carbon solutions are combining with digitization to restructure economies. Fossil fuel industries are going into decline,” the report states, adding that the window for long-lived fossil fuel investments is closing very fast. It further points out that while greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and global temperatures continue to rise, low carbon progress across all sectors of the economy is now accelerating. “Rapidly falling costs of solar, wind already make them better bets than fossil fuels across multiple markets, while the pace of electric vehicle development has repeatedly confounded projections. By 2030, for sectors contributing 70% of emissions, we will have increasingly competitive low carbon solutions including heavy road transport, heating and agriculture,” it states. The report also cites some low-carbon solutions emerging in the country, including ReNew Power Ltd — a leading solar and wind energy company — winning India’s ‘round-the-clock-renewables’ auction, Andhra Pradesh training 6 million farmers to transit to zero budget natural farming practices by 2024 and Dalmia Cement and Carbon Clean Solutions building world’s largest cement carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) plant in Tamil Nadu. India is on its way to overachieve on two targets — non-fossil fuel power generation and lowering its GDP emissions intensity — well before 2030. On the first, India reached 24% installed renewable energy capacity in September this year and has reduced GDP emissions intensity by 21% over 2005 levels. Recently, the government has set up a high-level inter-ministerial apex committee for Implementation of Paris Agreement (AIPA) to coordinate the country’s response to climate change, such that it is on track to meet its obligations under the Paris Agreement. According to experts, the long-term goal of Paris Agreement — net zero GHG emissions by mid-century — is now the reference point for policymakers. “World leaders started a journey in 2015 and now is the time to accelerate. We know global temperatures and emissions are rising but this assessment should give us hope that the Paris Agreement is working, said Laurence Tubiana, CEO of European Climate Foundation. Dr Ajay Mathur, Teri director general and a member of the Prime Minister's Council on Climate Change, said, “The Paris Agreement was a watershed moment for the global economy– and it is both exhilarating and reassuring to see that technological and economic trends over the past five years are indeed propelling us towards a carbon-emissions free future. This is despite the fact that a global peaking of carbon emissions is yet to occur; and suggests that these positive trends need to be converted into action as soon as possible, if not sooner.” Nicholas Stern, professor of economics and government, and Chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics, said, “The Paris Effect makes it clear that it also puts economies at risk of falling behind the next wave of the creation of prosperity. That wave is already gathering pace and will become a dominant force in growth and transformation over this decade. Wise policymakers and investors will aim for the opportunities, jobs, and resilience that can be delivered only through a net-zero economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-trillion-global-spend-on-health-care-due-to-air-pollution/articleshow/79651358.cms||Manka Behl
December 10, 2020||Business||Centre eyes coal mktg reforms to cut price disparity||Kolkata: The Centre is looking at implementing marketing reforms for coal by bringing in all the price mechanisms into one bucket in order to reduce price disparity among different sectors, said Union coal and mines secretary Anil Kumar Jain in an e-conclave on minerals, mining and metals, organised by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BCC&I). The Centre has already allowed merchant mining of coal on the operational side. Jain pointed out that the next round of reforms in the coal sector would be in the field of marketing. He indicated that mining reforms will be announced soon. “Market discovery of the price for coal is very important. Currently, there are different kinds of marketing of coal by Coal India. This ideally should come into one bucket,” he added. Apart from coal linkage or regulatory pricing, the Maharatna coal behemoth, the sole supplier of domestic coal, operates through five types of e-auctions as of now. These include spot auction, forward auction among others. The coal and mining secretary also said that production of minerals despite huge potential has not yet reached the desired level. “He also stressed the need for coal gasification by saying that CIL is doing one such project in Dankuni. The coal and mining secretary also admitted that there has been a spike in the price of iron ore but observed that it would be stabilised. Later on, NMDC chairman and MD Sumit Deb urged the Centre to look into the matter of imposing export duty on pallets. Currently, the Centre has imposed export duty of 30% on higher grade iron ore. However, Deb added that a lot of pallets have been exported where there is no duty. “Pallet is a low value-added item and a lot of people are doing that. NMDC is exporting only low grade ore, which cannot be used here,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/centre-eyes-coal-mktg-reforms-to-cut-price-disparity/articleshow/79652085.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Hawala kingpin nabbed by Delhi Police's EOW||NEW DELHI: International hawala kingpin Naresh Jain, accused of operating and incorporating several shell entities across several countries, has been arrested by Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW). Jain was arrested in Dubai for hawala activities in 2007, by NarcoticsControl Bureau in 2009 and later by Enforcement Directorate. “He was on the radar of Serious Organised Crime Agency, Britain, for money laundering. Two red corner notices had been issued against him by Interpol on the request of NCB-Rome and Dubai authorities,” said joint commissioner (EOW) OP Mishra. EOW filed a case against Jain on a complaint by ED alleging large-scale money laundering, hawala transactions, FEMA violations, etc. “Jain used forged documents to get dummy companies incorporated, open bank accounts and get mobile connections. His syndicate had been operating offshore bank accounts opened in the name of shell companies in Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai, etc,” said Mishra. The probe conducted so far has revealed that hundreds of trading and tour-travel companies were incorporated in the name of people recruited by him for carrying out “circular trading” to show bogus turnover and hawala transactions. Several people appointed as directors and proprietors in the shell entities have been examined. The bogus entities were being run from offices opened at obscure locations in Vikaspuri, Pitampura, Janakpuri, Rohini, etc with multiple entities registered on one address. “The accused was carrying out the activities in conspiracy with unscrupulous importers and exporters for hefty commission. Such importers procured false bills of entries from foreign exporters at very low rates to evade import duties. They paid commission through bank accounts of the shell companies,” said Mishra. Jain operated around 450 Indian entities and over 100 foreign entities for carrying out the crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hawala-kingpin-nabbed-by-eow/articleshow/79653713.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Covid effect: AIIMS cancels winter vacation for its staff||NEW DELHI: To cater to the increased demand of manpower in the current Covid situation, All India Institute of Medical Sciences has decided to cancel winter vacation for its staff this year. The vacation was scheduled to be taken between December 23 and January 10 next year. The hospital has been at the forefront in the battle against the pandemic by providing treatment to infected individuals at two of its dedicated facilities — Trauma Centre and NCI Jhajjar — for the past few months. Trauma Centre has 265 Covid beds, while NCI Jhajjar has 1,500. Also, the main AIIMS campus continues to conduct limited OPDs and emergency procedures, Dr D K Sharma, medical superintendent, AIIMS, said .“Elective surgeries aren’t happening currently. But we are receiving over 300 patients through main emergency and another 100 at the Trauma Centre daily. The occupancy of beds in the hospital also remains normal,” the doctor said. On resumption of normal OPDs and elective or planned surgeries, Dr Sharma said a decision would be taken when the Covid situation in Delhi stabilises. “We will review the situation in about two weeks and decide on resuming normal operations,” the doctor added. The hospital had shut OPD services and curtailed all elective surgeries in March to redirect its resources to fight the pandemic. The doctors said, surgeries were being conducted for emergency cases regularly and the follow-up was also being done through teleconsultation to reduce the need for patients to visit the facility. “All the employees at the hospital, including medical, paramedical, office and other support staff have been trained on infection-control practices,” said one of the doctors. Lok Nayak, the largest medical facility run by Delhi government, is currently functioning as a dedicated centre for Covid treatment. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of the hospital, said they were contemplating to start non-Covid services soon. “National Medical Council has already allowed opening of medical colleges. Non-Covid services have to be resumed for better training of students and to cater to patients suffering from various ailments,” the doctor added. Watch Covid-19: No winter vacation for employees of AIIMS in battle against pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-effect-aiims-cancels-winter-vacation-for-its-staff/articleshow/79653728.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Covid count just short of 6 lakh||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 2,463 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus on Wednesday with over 72,000 tests being conducted. The positivity rate dropped to 3.42%, down from 4.23% on Tuesday. These fresh cases came out of 72,079 tests conducted the previous day, which included 32,976 RT-PCR tests. Fifty fatalities were recorded on Wednesday, pushing the toll to 9,813. The active cases tally dropped to 20,546 from 22,310, the previous day. The state health department said the total number of cases climbed to 5,99,575. “The overall positivity rate on Wednesday is 3.42 per cent. The rate has been less than 5% for the past eight days. The positivity rate for RT-PCT tests is 6.46%. Today’s death numbers are lowest since November 1,” state health minister Satyendar Jain tweeted. He added that for the first time ever, over 2,500 ICU beds were vacant for Covid-19 patients on Wednesday. Public health specialists said the declining positivity rate signals ebbing of the third wave of the infection in the capital. “If the positivity rate continues to stay below 5%, we will overcome the pandemic,” a health department official said. Covid cases in the city peaked most recently in November, claiming over 2,600 lives and affecting over 1.8 lakh people in a month. A maximum of 8,593 fresh cases were reported in a single day on November 11. Health experts believe that a significant population in the capital has already been exposed to the coronavirus and, therefore, the likelihood of another spike in fresh cases of Covid-19 is unlikely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-covid-count-just-short-of-6-lakh/articleshow/79653737.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Panel backs 30-month term for mayor, deputy||BENGALURU: A legislators’ committee tasked with scrutinising the BBMP Bill, 2020, has approved the state government’s proposals to increase the Bengaluru mayor and deputy mayor’s tenures from one year to 30 months and the number of wards from 198 to 243. The Joint Legislature Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Restructuring Committee’s final report on the bill was tabled in the assembly on Wednesday. The bill seeks a separate law for the tech capital’s civic administration. Currently, BBMP is governed by provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1968. The BS Yediyurappa government is expected to quickly incorporate the committee’s recommendations and table a new version of the bill in the assembly on Thursday. But the proposed law’s path may be tricky. Recently, the Karnataka high court asked the State Election Commission (SEC) to announce a poll schedule for the existing 198 BBMP wards in six weeks. The government plans to move the Supreme Court to seek deferment of the polls, so it can implement the new law. After tabling the report on Wednesday, BJP legislator S Raghu, who headed the 20-member house committee, said: “The bill proposes sweeping changes to the way Bengaluru is administered. It will help develop the city further.” On increasing the mayor and deputy mayor’s tenures from one year to 30 months, Raghu said: “It’s been a long-standing complaint of mayors and deputy mayors that the one year term is not sufficient to implement plans.” Apart from supporting the demand for more wards, the committee’s report says that zonal committees should be set up. “The concept of zonal committees is an important aspect of the new bill as it empowers councillors. The details, including how much money zonal committees can independently spend, will be spelled out in the act,” said Congress MLC and committee member PR Ramesh. The report suggests constituency advisory committees in the city’s 28 assembly segments. They should be headed by the local MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-panel-backs-30-month-term-for-mayor-deputy/articleshow/79653774.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Delhi||Review reservation of 80% ICU beds in private hospitals, Delhi HC tells government||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has remarked that if around 50% of ICU beds reserved in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients are lying vacant, the decision by the Aam Aadmi Party government to retain 80% ceiling needs to be reviewed immediately. The high court made the observation on Wednesday after being informed by a private hospitals’ association that out of 5,081 ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, 2,360 were vacant as on Tuesday. The hospitals’ association had challenged the government’s September 12 order. Justice Navin Chawla asked Delhi government to consider the submissions by petitioner “Association of Healthcare Providers” and file its response before the next date on December 15. During the hearing, Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose urged the court to take up the matter after 10 days as the Covid-19 situation was improving in the national capital and the government would review the situation after 10 days. The state government’s additional scounsel said a review would be done if there was a need to continue with the September 12 order by which 33 private hospitals were directed to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in Delhi, adding that they were only going by precautionary measures. After going through the data, the high court said: “See the figures. If 50 per cent beds are lying vacant, the decision to reserve 80% beds needs immediate review and not a review after 10 days.” But senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the Association of Healthcare Providers, said the state government was indulging in delaying tactics. Out of a total of 1,527 Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators and 3,554 Covid-19 beds without ventilators in city hospitals, 508 and 1,852 beds respectively were lying vacant as on December 8, he added. Singh further submitted that as of now, the vacancy figure was 534 Covid-19 ICU beds with ventilators and 1,908 Covid-19 beds without ventilators. Singh said in case of non-Covid-19 ICU beds, out of 1,420, 314 beds were lying vacant and added that therefore, there was no justification of continuation of the earlier order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/review-reservation-of-80-icu-beds-in-private-hospitals-delhi-hc-tells-government/articleshow/79653741.cms||---
December 10, 2020||World||WTO to discuss India-backed IPR waiver on Covid-19 drugs today||South Africa and India’s proposal to temporarily suspend intellectual property rights for Covid-related technologies will be taken up at the council for Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) of the World Trade Organisation on Thursday. The WHO has welcomed the proposal stating that the waiver would help make treatments and tests available and affordable. If no consensus is reached, the negotiations could extend to the next year. Even if it happens in the first part of next year, it could help as patent applications are still in the process of getting published. Source: Médecins Sans Frontières ( MSF) The IP waiver would allow countries to choose to neither grant nor enforce patents and other IP related to all Covid-19 drugs, vaccines, diagnostics, and other technologies, including masks and ventilators, for the duration of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/wto-to-discuss-india-backed-ipr-waiver-on-covid-19-drugs-today/articleshow/79653777.cms||Rema Nagarajan
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2,000 driving licences suspended for not paying challan||MUMBAI: Mumbai traffic police has sent driving licences of 2,000 motorists for suspension to regional transport offices (RTO) for failing to pay up three or more challans. The motorists will be required to give an explanation as to why their licences should not be permanently cancelled. "Our current recovery rate of challans is 30%. In the next six months, we intend to attain a recovery rate of 50%," said Yashasvi Yadav, joint commissioner, traffic. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said the RTOs could suspend licences for a period of three to six months if vehicle owners who had not paid three or more challans fail to provide a valid explanation. In serious cases, licences could be revoked. "It is not an easy task to zero in on the actual offender since in several instances, the driver who committed the traffic violation is not the same as the owner of the vehicle," said Dhakne. The notices are always served to the vehicle owner. "There have been instances where the addresses are vague or mobile numbers are incorrect. Recovering fines becomes difficult then," said an RTO official. The state traffic department will soon start a setup resembling a call centre where police personnel will make calls to all those offenders who have failed to pay challans and remind them. A select team of policemen will also visit residences of those with a high number of pending challans to "politely" remind them to pay up. An RTO official said it would no longer be possible for an offender to escape paying fines once an e-challan has been issued. "Earlier, there used to be some cases where after a driving licence was impounded, the vehicle owner would make a false complaint with the police that his licence had been lost and would apply to the RTO for a duplicate licence. But now, all data about pending fines and driving licences is uploaded on a centralised server which can be accessed by police as well as RTOs. So, the police can verify if a motorist's driving licence is suspended or revoked and what are the fines imposed on him," the official said. Meanwhile, in a separate drive, traffic police cracked the whip on 5,000 motorists in a single day, on Tuesday, for sporting fancy number plates on their vehicles. About 1,200 of these challans were issued in the west region alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-2000-driving-licences-may-be-suspended-for-challan-default/articleshow/79653788.cms||Nitasha Natu
December 10, 2020||World||US surpasses 15 million corona cases||WASHINGTON: US coronavirus cases crossed the 15 million mark on Tuesday as regulators moved a step closer to approving a vaccine. President-elect Joe Biden, setting ambitious goals to change the course of the coronavirus pandemic, vowed on Tuesday to get “at least 100 million Covid vaccine shots into the arms of the American people” during his first 100 days in office, and said he would make it a “national priority” to get kids back to school during that time. The pledge, which Biden made while introducing the members of his health team in Wilmington, Delaware, tracks with the goals set by President Trump. But in creating clear bench marks for himself, Biden is taking a certain risk. He will undoubtedly be held to the 100 million promise at the 100-day mark on April 30, and fulfilling it will require no hiccups in manufacturing or distributing the vaccine and a willingness by Americans to be vaccinated. Biden’s announcement came as fresh details emerged about how Pfizer, the pharma giant whose vaccine could receive regulatory approval in the US this weekend, repeatedly urged the Trump administration to lock in a bigger supply. Before the vaccine was proved successful in clinical trials, the administration repeatedly turned down the chance to expand its pre-order beyond the 100 million doses it agreed to buy from Pfizer last July. The administration is now seeking to double the pre-order; otherwise it will run out of Pfizer’s vaccine by around March, according to people familiar with the talks. But Pfizer may not be able to deliver more doses for Americans until as late as June because the firm signed deals with other governments, including the EU. Pfizer, a US firm, too could face a consumer backlash if other nations are using its vaccine while Americans are forced to wait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-surpasses-15-million-corona-cases/articleshow/79653799.cms||---
December 10, 2020||World||UK PM Boris Johnson warns EU over Brexit trade talks: Back down or it’s no-deal||LONDON: British PM Boris Johnson warned the European Union on Wednesday it must scrap demands which he says are unacceptable if there is to be a Brexit trade deal to avoid a turbulent breakup in three weeks. With fears growing of a chaotic no-deal finale to the five-year Brexit crisis, Johnson reached Brussels for talks with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen over dinner at 1930 GMT. Both sides cast the meeting as a chance to unlock the stalled trade talks but acknowledge there is a danger that there may be no trade deal in place when Britain finally leaves the EU’s orbit on December 31. Ahead of his departure, Johnson said Brussels wanted the UK to comply with new EU laws in the future or be automatically punished, and was insisting it give up sovereign control over British fishing waters. “I don’t believe that those are terms that any prime minister of this country should accept,” he told the British parliament to cheers from Conservative leaders. A UK government source said a deal may not be possible, as did EU chief Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier and a French official. “The probability of a no-deal is increasing,” the French official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-pm-boris-johnson-warns-eu-over-brexit-trade-talks-back-down-or-its-no-deal/articleshow/79653822.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||30 evacuated from building after fire in Mumbai's Kitab Khana||A fire broke out at a café, which is part of Kitab Khana at Fort, on Wednesday, damaging the eatery and a portion of the bookstore. No one was hurt. Around 30 people were evacuated from the upper floors of the four-storey Somaiyya Bhavan through staircase as smoke engulfed the place. The fire started in the kitchen of the eatery, said fire officials. It took two hours for four fire engines to control the fire. Officials stated that the fire was confined to electric wiring, electrical installation, wooden furniture and books on the ground and mezzanine floors Watch Mumbai: Fire breaks out at Kitab Khana in Fort, no casualties reported||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/30-evacuated-from-building-after-fire-in-mumbais-kitab-khana/articleshow/79653828.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Pune||90,000 health workers from Maharashtra already listed to get vaccine||MUMBAI/PUNE: Details of over 90,000 healthcare workers and 16,245 vaccinators from Maharashtra have been uploaded on Co-win-the Central software to track vaccine movement-till December 8, it was revealed at the first meeting of the state Covid-19 vaccine steering committee held on Wednesday. An estimated 2.6 lakh health workers from the government sector will be immunised, while numbers from private health sector are still being collated. Health workers cannot get a vaccine unless they are registered, the state said. As per preliminary plans, the state has decided to administer the vaccine only in hospitals, unlike the routine immunisation programme where even schools and anganwadis are used. It is apparently to tackle any serious adverse event on the spot. "Medical facilities above rural hospitals such as sub-district, district, corporation hospitals and medical colleges could be the main centres," an official said. The vaccination of government health workers is likely to be carried out at 135 sites. A team of five, including two vaccinators, will inoculate at least 100 people in each site. "These plans are based on rough estimates and could change as details of more beneficiaries are uploaded," said N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission. 1.25 lakh from healthcare sector identified for vaccine in city, may get shots in med collegesN Ramaswami, commissioner, of the National Health Mission said on Wednesday that the state has not been given a timeline on how soon a vaccine may arrive. Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope said the registration of all beneficiaries was likely to be completed in a week’s time. Tope said that the vaccination programme will rely on mobile teams and district-wise committees that will function in a way similar to the election process. In terms of preparedness, the Indian Air Force is set to transfer 2.5 acres of its land to Pune airport authorities within a week to improve storage and transport of the Serum Institute of India (SII) vaccine. Pune MP Girish Bapat, who heads the Pune airport advisory committee, made the announcement shortly after a meeting in Delhi on Wednesday with senior officials from the Ministry of Defence. In Mumbai, the BMC has set aside a 5,000 sq ft space in a Kanjurmarg building to build a central storage facility. Mumbai has also formed a Covid vaccine task force that is going to have its first meeting on Friday. The task force, to be headed by the additional municipal commissioner, will look at all aspects of preparedness, including storage and transportation. The city has identified 1.25 lakh health sector beneficiaries and has nearly 1,300 vaccinators. Civic officials said they may carry out vaccinations mainly in medical colleges. All districts have been asked to form their own vaccine task force. In a presentation made to the steering committee, the state’s principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said on Wednesday that the state has adequate cold storage facilities, a central one in Pune, nine at the divisional level, 34 at district level, 27 at the corporation level and 3,135 cold chain points. In addition, Tope said the state will get six walk-in coolers, two walk-in freezers, 150 ice-lined refrigerators and 100 deep freezers from the Centre.They are likely to start arriving by the end of the month. “We had made the request a month ago, and the Union government has assured us that they would provide us the walk-in coolers which can store vials between 2-8 degree Celsius and walk-in freezers that have the capacity to store vials at -15 to -25 degree Celsius,” Tope said. About the vaccination itself, Ramaswami said that after the first vaccine dose is administered, the individual would receive a text message. Simultaneously, a vaccination certificate would also be stored in a digital locker. The first group of beneficiaries will include doctors, nurses, technicians, OPD attendants, ASHA workers and ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives). The state task force under chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, set up to oversee the preparation for the Covid-19 vaccine, met for the first time on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by principal secretaries, secretaries of 18 government departments, and representatives of WHO, UNICEF, UNDP, John Snow International, Clinton Health Access Initiative, Rotary International, defense establishment and railways. “Training of trainers in consultation with the Centre has begun. These people will get trained and then will and train the remaining vaccinators in batches,” said an official who attended the meeting. The state in all has around 30,000 vaccinators. (Inputs by Nisha Nambiar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/90000-health-workers-from-maharashtra-already-listed-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/79653864.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||90,000 health workers from Maharashtra already listed to get vaccine||MUMBAI/PUNE: Details of over 90,000 healthcare workers and 16,245 vaccinators from Maharashtra have been uploaded on Co-win-the Central software to track vaccine movement-till December 8, it was revealed at the first meeting of the state Covid-19 vaccine steering committee held on Wednesday. An estimated 2.6 lakh health workers from the government sector will be immunised, while numbers from private health sector are still being collated. Health workers cannot get a vaccine unless they are registered, the state said. As per preliminary plans, the state has decided to administer the vaccine only in hospitals, unlike the routine immunisation programme where even schools and anganwadis are used. It is apparently to tackle any serious adverse event on the spot. "Medical facilities above rural hospitals such as sub-district, district, corporation hospitals and medical colleges could be the main centres," an official said. The vaccination of government health workers is likely to be carried out at 135 sites. A team of five, including two vaccinators, will inoculate at least 100 people in each site. "These plans are based on rough estimates and could change as details of more beneficiaries are uploaded," said N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission. 1.25 lakh from healthcare sector identified for vaccine in city, may get shots in med collegesN Ramaswami, commissioner, of the National Health Mission said on Wednesday that the state has not been given a timeline on how soon a vaccine may arrive. Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope said the registration of all beneficiaries was likely to be completed in a week’s time. Tope said that the vaccination programme will rely on mobile teams and district-wise committees that will function in a way similar to the election process. In terms of preparedness, the Indian Air Force is set to transfer 2.5 acres of its land to Pune airport authorities within a week to improve storage and transport of the Serum Institute of India (SII) vaccine. Pune MP Girish Bapat, who heads the Pune airport advisory committee, made the announcement shortly after a meeting in Delhi on Wednesday with senior officials from the Ministry of Defence. In Mumbai, the BMC has set aside a 5,000 sq ft space in a Kanjurmarg building to build a central storage facility. Mumbai has also formed a Covid vaccine task force that is going to have its first meeting on Friday. The task force, to be headed by the additional municipal commissioner, will look at all aspects of preparedness, including storage and transportation. The city has identified 1.25 lakh health sector beneficiaries and has nearly 1,300 vaccinators. Civic officials said they may carry out vaccinations mainly in medical colleges. All districts have been asked to form their own vaccine task force. In a presentation made to the steering committee, the state’s principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said on Wednesday that the state has adequate cold storage facilities, a central one in Pune, nine at the divisional level, 34 at district level, 27 at the corporation level and 3,135 cold chain points. In addition, Tope said the state will get six walk-in coolers, two walk-in freezers, 150 ice-lined refrigerators and 100 deep freezers from the Centre.They are likely to start arriving by the end of the month. “We had made the request a month ago, and the Union government has assured us that they would provide us the walk-in coolers which can store vials between 2-8 degree Celsius and walk-in freezers that have the capacity to store vials at -15 to -25 degree Celsius,” Tope said. About the vaccination itself, Ramaswami said that after the first vaccine dose is administered, the individual would receive a text message. Simultaneously, a vaccination certificate would also be stored in a digital locker. The first group of beneficiaries will include doctors, nurses, technicians, OPD attendants, ASHA workers and ANMs (auxiliary nurse midwives). The state task force under chief secretary Sanjay Kumar, set up to oversee the preparation for the Covid-19 vaccine, met for the first time on Wednesday. The meeting was attended by principal secretaries, secretaries of 18 government departments, and representatives of WHO, UNICEF, UNDP, John Snow International, Clinton Health Access Initiative, Rotary International, defense establishment and railways. “Training of trainers in consultation with the Centre has begun. These people will get trained and then will and train the remaining vaccinators in batches,” said an official who attended the meeting. The state in all has around 30,000 vaccinators. (Inputs by Nisha Nambiar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/90000-health-workers-from-maharashtra-already-listed-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/79653853.cms||Sumitra Debroy
December 10, 2020||Chennai||Income Tax department searches at 60 premises of Tamil Nadu business group||CHENNAI: The Income Tax department on Wednesday conducted searches across the country on premises belonging to a prominent Tamil Nadu-based business group. The official twitter handle of Income Tax department stated, “About 60 premises are being covered in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. More than Rs 7 crore unaccounted cash has been recovered from a key person so far and the search is still in progress.” In Tamil Nadu, searches were conducted at the offices and godowns of the business group in Chennai, Karur and Coimbatore districts. Apart from the offices and residences in Chennai, Income tax department sleuths from Coimbatore carried out a search in the office and go-down of the business group in Puliyur near Krishnarayapuram of Karur district. The officials arrived at the office7 am in three cars and carried out the search. Another team of IT officials conducted the raid at the group’s factory at Keela Pazhuvoor in Ariyalur district. A total of 15 officers carried out the raid in each location, according to officials. The officials also conducted the search operations at the group’s office at Race Course in Coimbatore on Wednesday as part of raids. The sleuths, attached to the Chennai unit, along with officials from the Coimbatore unit, reached the company around 8am. “The raid is conducted following tax evasion complaints,” said a source privy to the operation and added that the search operation is expected to continue for a few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/income-tax-department-searches-at-60-premises-of-tamil-nadu-business-group/articleshow/79653861.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Mumbai||MSRTC extends VRS to 30,000 staff aged over 50 to ease pay burden||MUMBAI: The MSRTC issued a circular to all its employees on Wednesday, saying those aged above 50, both officers and general employees, can sign the "golden handshake" to avail of the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS). The move is aimed at reducing the salary burden on the cash-strapped bus corporation. Two of MSRTC's staffers had recently committed suicide due to non-payment of salaries for three months. A senior official said, "There are around 30,000 staffers in the 1.1-lakh-strong workforce who are aged above 50. If the majority of them take VRS, which is now on offer by the management, it will cut the wage bill as well as overhead costs. This will also result in huge savings for the corporation which has accumulated losses to the tune of Rs 6,000 crore." The bus corporation will save up to Rs 100 crore a month, said an official. In the first week of November, two of its staffers, a driver in Ratnagiri and a conductor in Jalgaon, committed suicide, which had led to widespread protest among the state bus corporation staffers in Maharashtra. The conductor had left behind a suicide note, mentioning that non-payment of salaries for three months had left him with huge debts and he was therefore taking the drastic step. State chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had intervened and the government later announced a financial package of Rs 1,000 crore for MSRTC. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe said the deaths were uncalled for. "We will ensure in future that salaries are paid on time and for that particular month. We are trying to revive the bus corporation, explore new areas to earn revenue and break even in the next two years," he said. It, for instance, launched ST-trucks for goods transportation across Maharashtra a few months ago and has deployed more than 700 such vehicles, which are generating good business. The bus corporation is also setting up petrol and diesel pumps across the state to earn extra income. Sources said MSRTC was also counselling young staffers and asking them to refrain from taking such drastic steps such as suicide. Those who died were young employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrtc-extends-vrs-to-30000-staff-aged-over-50-to-ease-pay-burden/articleshow/79653872.cms||Somit Sen
December 10, 2020||Surat||Tribal University gets its first VC||Surat: Principal of city’s oldest MTB Arts College, Dr Madhukar Padvi, was appointed as first vice chancellor (VC) of Birsa Munda Tribal University in Rajpipla. Since its inception in 2017, no full-time VC had been appointed for the university. The tribal university’s office is currently operational from the Vocational Training Centre in Rajpipla. It has 469 undergraduate students in Schools of Science, Commerce and Arts. Of them 323 have been provided hostel facilities. The university has been allotted 39 acre land near Rajpipla to develop its campus at cost of Rs 350 crore. Padvi, born into a poor tribal family in Manpur village of Nizar taluka of Tapi district (then Surat district) in 1961, did his graduation with Hindi from Rajpipla. He completed his masters, MPhil and PhD from Veer Narmad South Gujarat University. His PhD was on ‘Critical study of Nirmal Verma’s Stories and Comparative Study of Nirmal Verma and Madhu Rai’s stories.’ Padvi has written number of books on areas of his research and also did extensive study of tribal languages. He has set up a museum of tribal culture highlighting musical instruments, traditional food grains grown in tribal belt, household products made and used by tribals. The museum is set up at MTB Arts College. He joined MTB Arts College as lecturer of Hindi in 1986. The college is run by Sarvajanik Education Society (SES) and is accredited A Grade college by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tribal-university-gets-its-first-vc/articleshow/79649105.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||2 Trinamool MLAs question Kishor’s role in party affairs||Kolkata/Howrah/Jalpaiguri: Rumblings in Trinamool Congress ranks came to the fore on Wednesday with Bally MLA Vaishali Dalmiya and Maynaguri MLA Anantadeb Roy questioning the party role of poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s team. After being left out of a party meeting in Bally, Vaishali accused Team PK of driving a wedge in the party while Roy, who is in Kolkata, said he had taken his complaint to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. In another development, a North 24 Parganas zilla parishad member resigned on Wednesday after skipping Banerjee’s Bongaon rally citing “personal reasons” that he said he would “explain later”. According to sources, a meeting was held in Bally that all 16 former Bally Municipality councillors were asked to attend. After the meeting, coordinated by Team PK, Trinamool’s former Bally unit chairperson Vijayalakshmi Rao stormed in and asked why the local MLA was not invited or informed. Vaishali said she was “surprised” at the role being played by Team PK, adding “are they strengthening the party or dividing it?” The Maynaguri MLA said: “How can he (PK) teach us Bengalis how to do politics? I have written to CM Mamata Banerjee about how PK is harming the party;” Roy added that if he was not taken seriously, he would not work for the party in the 2021 polls. On a day the CM addressed a Trinamool rally in North 24 Parganas, party’s zilla parishad member Ratan Ghosh resigned from the post of khadya-karmadhyaksha. (Written with inputs from Rupak Banerjee in Howrah, Pinak Priya Bhattacharya in Jalpaiguri and Sanjib Chakraborty in Kolkata)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-trinamool-mlas-question-kishors-role-in-party-affairs/articleshow/79651909.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||BJP man found hanging in Bengal school||Jalpaiguri: A BJP worker was found hanging on school premises in Cooch Behar’s Tufanganj on Wednesday. The 36 year-old man was identified as goldsmith Swapan Das, who was missing since Tuesday evening. BJP claimed foul play and alleged a “Trinamool hand” in the incident. Das’ wife Chumki lodged an FIR at Tufanganj police station against Subha Karmakar and Babai Kundu, both Trinamool workers, and alleged that they had killed her husband. A resident of Subhash Palli in Andaran Fulbari I GP, Das was found hanging from the ceiling of the verandah at Andaran Fulbari Girls’ High School canteen. There were blood stains in his feet that made BJP claim it was a murder. Das was an active BJP activist in booth 192. Chumki too is a BJP activist. Cooch Behar Trinamool spokesman Sibapada Paul said Das had died by suicide because of family problems and that his party had nothing to do with it. BJP youth wing district vice-president Partha Sarathi Saha said: “This is a case of political vendetta.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-man-found-hanging-in-bengal-school/articleshow/79652005.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||No need for CAA, refugees and Matuas already citizens: West Bengal CM||BONGAON: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee reached out to Bongaon, in North 24 Parganas district along the Indo-Bangladesh border, to list out to the Matuas all she had promised them before rival BJP tried to woo the community with citizenship under Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) as BJP president J P Nadda had announced during his last visit to West Bengal. “I am not like BJP that says many things ahead of polls. I keep my word. We have already set up Matua Development Board and allotted Rs 10 crore for its functioning. The work on Harichand-Guruchand Thakur University is on. I have also decided to mark Matua leader Harichand Thakur’s birthday on April 9 as a state holiday,” the CM said at a public rally at Bongaon’s Gopalnagar on Wednesday. Banerjee further said there was no need for CAA because Matuas and refugees from East Pakistan and later Bangladesh already enjoyed all the rights and amenities a citizen was entitled to. The Matuas, a religious sect mainly comprising namasudras, had migrated from Orakandi in Gopalganj of Bangladesh to this border district. They are key to determining the fate of political leaders in at least six border assembly seats — Bongaon Uttar, Bongaon Dakshin, Gaighata, Swarupnagar, Bagda in North 24 Parganas and Haringhata in Nadia. A large section of Matua voters, mainly farmers, went with BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. On Wednesday, Banerjee iterated her support for farmers’ cause against the “anti-farmer” central laws to win Matuas back to her fold when Matua leader and BJP MP Shantanu Thakur had publicly expressed his “disappointment” over BJP not keeping the citizenship promise till date. From the rally venue, Banerjee announced that “the Matuas and refugees who came over to India are already citizens”. “We have recognized all 94 refugee colonies in Bengal and given them legal status. Even those settling on railway land or private land have been recognized. They are all getting free rations from the government and are included under Swasthya Sathi and Krishak Bandhu schemes. Where is the need for getting citizenship after all these? BJP is trying to divide Bengalis with CAA-NRC-NPR. They will drive Bengalis out of the state and turn Bengal into a Gujarat. We will resist it,” she said. The Trinamool chief hit out at BJP “outsiders”, blaming them for coaxing voters with a bagful of money. “Watch out for these outsiders. They will coax you with a bagful of money. They are out to break political parties and drive a wedge into families. The once CPM harmads have joined them and become their ostads (operators). They will snatch land from farmers and hand over the produce to corporate bodies,” Banerjee said, criticising the Centre’s farm laws. With an eye on Matuas, who are under scheduled caste category, the CM said: “You should know there is no need for enquiry for those applying for caste certificates. The government will issue certificates within a week based on self-declaration if one family member is a scheduled caste.” Near the end of her speech, Banerjee ran out of patience on seeing a group of village resource persons (VRPs) holding placards with the demand for service regularization. “I have had enough of it. Why are you spoiling my rally? You can write to us. We will do it if funds permit. I am really upset with you. I ask the rally organizers to take better initiative in future,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-need-for-caa-refugees-and-matuas-already-citizens-didi/articleshow/79651827.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||On West Bengal visit, BJP chief tours Mamata Banerjee’s Bhowanipore turf||KOLKATA: BJP national president J P Nadda on Wednesday charged chief minister Mamata Banerjee with “intolerance and appeasement” and accused her of practising “dynastic politics”, on the first day of his two-day Bengal visit. He told party workers that BJP would dethrone the Trinamool government in the 2021 assembly polls. Nadda later participated in a public outreach programme in Banerjee’s home constituency Bhowanipore. “Intolerance thy name is Mamata,” Nadda said on Wednesday, giving it back to Trinamool over the allegation it had brought against BJP. Citing the difference between the two parties, Nadda said: “TMC has become a family party. But for BJP, the party is a family. It’s our ideology that the karyalay is where the family works and it’s not a leader’s house.” A group of youths, in a snap demonstration outside the BJP office at Hastings in Kolkata, shouted “J P Nadda murdabad, BJP murdabad” slogans, protesting the Centre’s farm laws and trying to show black flags to the BJP leader while he was coming to the party office. Nadda dwelt at length on “rising intolerance” in Bengal, pointing to attacks on BJP workers in the state. “Violence, corruption and nepotism have taken centrestage in West Bengal. A worker was killed this morning and another was killed yesterday. At least 130 workers were killed in political violence. This clearly shows that political activity has come to a halt in the state and the ruling party is busy in politicizing institutions. They (Trinamool) are trying to silence people,” he said. “We have come a long way from 4% votes to 40% votes in 2019. In 2021, we will cross 200 seats. Bihar elections have shown that people are with Modiji and they have blessed us in the state proving experts wrong…we will dethrone the (Trinamool) government in 2021,” the BJP president said. Nadda then hit out at the CM over “minority appeasement”. He said: “She allows Eid. We have nothing against it. We are for Eid celebrations. But why did she impose lockdown on Ram Mandir foundation day?” Nadda then participated in the party’s ‘Aar Noi Onnyay’ programme, and distributed leaflets to a household in Banerjee’s home constituency Bhowanipore. BJP had led by 3,168 votes from this constituency in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, three years after Banerjee won it by a margin of close to 25,000 votes in the 2016 assembly polls. BJP had finished the race at third, after Congress-Left candidate Deepa Das Munshi. Nadda reminded party workers that Bhowanipore was home to Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee. “If Pakistan had divided India during Partition, Mookerjee divided Pakistan and helped West Bengal remain with India,” the BJP leader said, recalling Bengal’s “special link” with BJP. Before holding a closed-door meeting at Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) with Bengal BJP office-bearers on Wednesday evening, Nadda held a meeting at Bhasha Parishad to take stock of south Kolkata assembly seats, particularly Bhowanipore and Jadavpur, and gave advice on strengthening booth-level activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-bengal-visit-bjp-chief-tours-mamatas-bhowanipore-turf/articleshow/79651902.cms||Rohit Khanna
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata schools de-roster pupils from online classes over fees due||KOLKATA: A number of schools in the city have started de-rostering children from online classes, asking parents to clear up pending fees, prompting parents to rush to pay up their dues. The schools, in turn, said this was a last-ditch effort to make parents clear up their dues, and that pupils would be put back on online classes once they received payment. Mount Litera Zee School principal, G M Leena, said she had only removed pupils whose parents had failed to pay and had not communicated with the school at all. Defaulters who had even paid some bits have not been removed. Several pupils have been removed from online classes at St Stephen’s School, Dum Dum, after which parents queued up to clear whatever they could and plead for inclusion. Principal Ela Chowdhury did not wish to comment on the matter. Mahadevi Birla Shishu Vihar, GD Birla School and Ashoka Hall — all managed by the same group — also saw pupils being de-rostered. A spokesperson said: “We have just followed the court order, which said that par-ents should pay up by November 30, failing which schools were free to remove kids from December 8.” Screenshots of children having been removed from online classes circulated in parents’ messaging groups groups and on social media throughout the day. Some parents said their wards were de-rostered although they had paid part of the fees, and in spite of comunicating with the schools that they were in financial distress, caused by the lockdown. Abhishek Rathi, a parent, said: “My child, who is in Class IX, has been de-rostered. I had paid 80% fees till September and couldn’t pay any more because my naturopathy centre shut down because of the pandemic, and I am in acute financial distress. I had written to the school but there has been no response.” Another parent, who has daughters in classes VIII and X, both of whom had their names struck off, said he had sent 10 emails to the school, saying he had managed to pay fees till July, but was finding it difficult to pay any more since he had suffered massive salary cuts. The school had not replied even once, he said. Yet another parent, Meenakshi Jhawar, whose twin daughters — of Class VIII in a reputable south Kolkata school — have been removed, said: “I have tried paying the fees in accordance with the court’s order, but the school has its own calculations. So they are refusing to accept my fees. My husband is into event management and hasn’t got any business in the pandemic. I am feeling helpless.” There were reports of children calling subject teachers to let them into the online class groups, but all such calls went unanswered. Teachers said they had been instructed by school authorities not to entertain such calls. “I felt helpless. I was teaching a crucial chapter to Class VII kids and was forced to remove seven of them,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-de-roster-pupils-from-online-classes-over-fees-due/articleshow/79652730.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Ex-West Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in hospital with breathing problems, ‘critical’||KOLKATA: Former chief minister and CPM veteran Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was admitted to a private hospital in south Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon after he fell unconscious following severe breathing distress. Doctors described his condition as “critical” and said he was suffering from a lung infection. The oxygen saturation level of the 76-year-old — who has a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) — had dropped to 70. He tested negative for Covid, after which he was put on BiPap (non-invasive) ventilation, and later to invasive ventilation when the carbon dioxide levels in his blood spiked. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited the hospital in the evening and spoke to doctors, Bhattacharjee’s wife Meera and daughter Suchetana. “All necessary steps are being taken by the doctors, and I wish him a speedy recovery,” she said. “We are with his family at this hour of crisis. He is a former chief minister and we respect him.” Admitted at the critical care unit of Woodlands Hospital, Bhattacharjee’s oxygen saturation level shot up to 95 with ventilation support. But a CT scan of his chest revealed “old patches of pneumonia”. Considering his COPD, he was immediately put on ventilation and would remain under observation, said Woodlands CEO Rupali Basu. After the initial BiPap support, Bhattacharjee was shifted to invasive (mechanical) ventilation after a test conducted later in the afternoon revealed “accumulation of carbon dioxide and low PH level”. “Hence, a decision was taken by the clinical expert team to electively ventilate with the consent of family members,” said Basu. “His condition remains critical, though his pulse rate and blood pressure remain normal. He has a history of COPD and receives oxygen support at home. Since the carbon dioxide count in his blood was rising, we decided to put him on ventilation.... It had touched 130, which could have been dangerous. His lungs were not being able to function with BiPap.” She added that Bhattacharjee was unconscious. Antibiotics, steroids and other supportive medications were being used. Bhattacharjee is being treated by consultant pulmonologist Koushik Chakraborty and critical care consultant Soutik Panda. A medical board comprising cardiologist Saroj Mondal, pulmonologist Ankan Bandopadhyay and anaesthesiologist Asis Patra has been formed to assist them. “We also sought the services of cardiologist Saroj Mondal of SSKM Hospital, and he has agreed to join the medical board,” added Basu. CPM leaders Surjyakanta Mishra and Biman Bose also visited the hospital. Mishra later tweeted: “Comrade Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee has been admitted for treatment of acute exacerbation of his respiratory problems in Woodland. No visitor is being allowed now. Well-wishers are requested to co-operate with the hospital authority for maintaining strict discipline in this regard.” Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who had visited the former chief minister at his home two months ago, also dropped by. “The situation is looking up and he (Bhattacharjee) is stable. I am grateful to the dedicated team of doctors and paramedical staff for their great care and support,” he later said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ex-cm-buddha-in-hosp-with-breathing-problems-critical/articleshow/79652729.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||Average pay package rises at IIT-Kharagpur placements this year||KOLKATA: Despite the pandemic that has caused unprecedented disruption in the economy, the average salary offer to final year students at IIT-Kharagpur this year has increased by 27% against last year. Also, there has been no dearth of job offers with bluechip companies like Google, Microsoft, Apple, Qualcomm, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, American Express, Sony Japan, EXL Service, Oracle, Honeywell, TSMC, Rakuten, Cohesity, Amazon, Airbus, PwC, L&T, Wipro and Tata Steel making over 1,000 offers during placement interviews, which were for the first time conducted entirely online. At the end of the eight-day placement programme, the average salary offered this year stood at Rs 19 lakh per annum, up from last year’s Rs 15 lakh per annum, IIT-Kgp career development centre chairman A Rajakumar said. The official, however, refused comment on the highest offer in what’s been an extremely challenging year, leading to speculations that the highest package is yet to touch the magical figure of Rs 1 crore. Last year, five students had bagged offers in excess of Rs 1 crore a year. “Till now, IIT-Kgp has achieved good placement numbers and top companies have shown faith in us. More than 200 companies participated in the first phase of the recruitment drive. Around 25% of them are core companies, 65% software firms, and 10% consulting. The company mix in the first phase is fairly distributed, and students got their placements as per their domain choice, though software, data, and analytics took the major share,” said Rajakumar. The pandemic though has had an effect on international offers, which are significantly lower this year. Only 30 foreign offers were made at the end of the eight days this year against 43 such offers by the fifth day of placements last year. Not a single offer is for a position in the US. “Last year, Japanese firms had made 28 offers. Accenture led with 19 offers, while Sony Japan and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd offered nine international positions each. This was followed by 6 offers by American MNCs — three by Microsoft Redmond, and one each by Uber, PayPal and Honeywell,” said a senior IIT-Kgp official who is privy to the placement developments. Microsoft Richmond gave the placement a miss this year and the others made fewer international offers, not just at IIT-Kgp but other IITs as well. “Placements in the US have taken a hit due to the uncertainty over H1B visas. Though there is an ongoing transition of administration in the US, companies are adopting a wait-and-watch policy. Many of the companies want to understand the policy for immigrant workers that will be endorsed by the new administration and only then draw up further hiring plans from IIT campuses,” a teacher at IIT-Kgp said. Another official blamed the weak job market abroad for the fall in numbers. “During the last placement, when the pandemic had just broken out in March, companies had rescinded offers at both IITs and IIMs. Even after the Covid situation improves in early 2021, some countries may continue to have restrictions in place for foreign nationals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/avg-pay-package-rises-at-iit-kgp-placements-this-yr/articleshow/79652757.cms||Somdatta Basu
December 10, 2020||Vadodara||Three brothers found dead in pond in Karjan||VADODARA: Three brothers, who were missing since Tuesday afternoon, were found dead from a pond in Karjan taluka on Wednesday morning. The siblings – Madhur Saniya (13), Dhruv (10) and Uttam (8) – were last seen by their mother on Tuesday afternoon at around 1.30 pm. Their father Suresh was away for work while the three kids were playing outside their house on the outskirts of Koliyad village. A few minutes later when their mother went to call them home, the trio was not found. After searching for them till late in the evening in the village and nearby areas, the parents approached cops. Police registered a kidnapping case as the kids were minors and launched a manhunt. “We looked around throughout the night, but they were nowhere to be found,” said a police official. On Wednesday morning around 9 am, a villager saw a plastic ball floating in a pond adjacent to a ground in the village. Suspecting that the kids would have gone in the water to get the ball, police asked local swimmers to search in the pond. An hour later, the trio’s bodies were found. Police suspect that they died of drowning and ruled out any foul play as there were no injury marks on the bodies. The bodies were sent to the community health centre in Karjan for post-mortem and later handed over to the parents. Police said that the family is a native of Zinzavadar village of Botad district. “The family is from the community which keeps migrating and they had settled on the outskirts of Koliyad just two months back,” the police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-siblings-found-dead-in-pond/articleshow/79648862.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Woman stripped, beaten in Seraikela||JAMSHEDPUR: A woman was beaten up and stripped off her clothes by a group of 10 locals in Gherabera village under Chowka police station area in Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Monday night. The woman, a 34-year-old widow anganwadi worker, filed a police complaint on Tuesday evening after she got assurance of support from her family members. Chowka OC Vijay Yadav said one person has been arrested and raids are on to nab the remaining named accused. He added that eight are named accused in the case while an equal number are unnamed accused. In her complaint, the woman said three local women — Oliba Kusum Topno, Sisila Purty and Angela Topno – reached her house, dragged her for about 50 meters and handed her over to the group of people who accused her of being a woman of loose character. She alleged that they stripped her, beat her up and asked to leave the village immediately. The woman said Oliba, Sisila and Angela wanted her to leave her job as ab anganwadi worker so that they could put their ‘favoured person’ in her place. The woman said she stays in the village with her 14-year-old son, but had left for her mother’s house in Khunti district early hours on Tuesday and only lodged the complaint after her family convinced her. Police shifted the woman to MGM hospital for initial treatment of her injuries and her family took her to Santevita hospital in Ranchi. A police source said the woman was in a relationship with a married man in his mid-twenties. “Villagers wanted her to leave the village after the wife of her lover attempted suicide twice in the past few months,” said a policeman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-stripped-beaten-in-seraikela/articleshow/79650025.cms||---
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||Ex-franchise holder of TV channel surrenders in double murder case after 21-month run||Ranchi: Former franchise holder of a private television channel and key accused in the murder of two traders, Lokesh Choudhary surrendered before a court in Ranchi district on Wednesday after evading arrest for almost 21 months. After a necessary Covid test, Choudhary surrendered before the court of additional judicial commissioner Vishal Srivastava and was sent to judicial custody for 14 days. On March 7, 2019, bullet-ridden bodies of the two brothers — Mahendra Agrawal and Hemant Agrawal —were found from a private office of Choudhary in Ashok Nagar. The victims ran a courier service and had visited the office to discuss about a loan they had given to Choudhary. A day earlier, the family members had filed a case of missing persons with Lalpur police station. The Argora police registered a case against four persons — Choudhary, N K Singh and two bodyguards. Choudhary’s surrender came after police mounted pressure on him and confiscated his property. Singh is still absconding. Choudhary said he was falsely implicated in the case for political reasons. “Those opposed to me did not want to see me progressing in politics. I have faith in the judicial system,” he said after his surrender. His lawyer Anant Kumar said, “We had filed an anticipatory bail which was rejected. After his surrender, we will apply for a regular bail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-franchise-holder-of-tv-channel-surrenders-in-double-murder-case-after-21-month-run/articleshow/79650187.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||Slain BDO’s family, friends feel sense of closure after action against Bihar DG||Ranchi: Family members and friends of slain Manatu BDO Bhavnath Jha had a sense of closure on Wednesday when they heard the news of Bihar government taking action against the then Palamu SP Arvind Pandey, presently serving at the rank of director general of police in Bihar, for dereliction of duty. Bhavnath was killed by armed cadre of Maoists which went by the name of Maoist Communist Centre (MCC) in unified Bihar in 1997. A close friend of Jha and a local resident, Animesh Tetarve, said Jha was a classmate of his elder brother Dr Subhash Tetarve and they had family relations. “Jha was threatened by MCC earlier, which was very powerful in those days, particularly in Palamu, but police paid no heed to it,” Tetarve said. Recalling the incident, he said a meeting of BDOs was scheduled in Palamu and on the preceding night, Bhavnath got late in collecting the requisite papers from the block office. Despite threat to his life, Jha decided to stay back in the residential quarter meant for BDOs in Manatu. Usually he would travel from Palamu on a daily basis. Late in the night, a few armed cadres of MCC knocked at his door. Though others in the quarter fled, he remained there and was caught by the MCC. His throat was slit inside the premise of the quarter,” Tetarve said. The BDO quarter had no security at that time and Bhavnath’s intimation about the threats he was receiving was also not taken seriously. Four of his brothers are in Ranchi whereas his wife, given a job of school teacher on compassionate grounds, is in Patna. His eldest brother Amar, who runs a family business in Ranchi, expressed satisfaction over the decision of the Bihar government. “Though nothing can change now, at least the administration inquired the case and reached a conclusion that little alertness on the part of the officials then could have saved my brothers life.” Another Ranchi resident, then a young boy who accompanied the BDO, unwilling to be identified, said he was with Bhavnath on that night. He said that the level of threat was extreme and they lived in fear everyday and staying at Manatu was a big decision then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/slain-bdos-family-friends-feel-sense-of-closure-after-action-against-bihar-dg/articleshow/79650105.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
December 10, 2020||Ranchi||Churches cancelling X-Mas gatherings, final call on services awaited||Ranchi: Cheer of carols sung by local groups, aroma of freshly baked cakes, midnight masses and parties will be missing this year on Christmas amid the ongoing pandemic, feel revellers. The dampening of spirit was palpable after churches across the state geared up to make plans to restrict the number of devotees on Christmas this year. Moderator of Gossner Evangelical Lutheran (GEL) Church Johan Dang said, “This will not be a usual Christmas as 2020 is a normal year. Christmas gatherings are being cancelled and we are advising the faithful to celebrate Christmas in the safety of their homes and dutifully abide by all Covid norms, including wearing masks. This year, only 50 people will be allowed at a time inside churches during the services on Christmas. “Managing crowd is a challenge in Ranchi and thus we will continue with our online church services even on Christmas, so that the elderly, women and children can stay at home and yet feel closer to God by simply logging on to our website,” Dang said. The church’s bishop, Johnson Lakra, said, “Christmas plans, including the number of church services to be held, are still in the process of being finalised. We are talking to stakeholders and hope to make our plans public a week before Christmas.” The Church of North India, Chotanagpur Diocese, has cancelled all fetes, Christmas gatherings, fairs and annual sports day events at its schools and educational institutions. “All large gatherings are being avoided. There will be restrictions on the number of faithful present at church services. At least six church services, in English and Hindi, will be held on Christmas. Our youth volunteers will deck up the 150-year-old St Paul’s Cathedral at Bahubazar in Ranchi as usual,” Vikhla Bakhlaa, general secretary, CNI Church, Chotanagpur Diocese, said. The Roman Catholic Church too has already announced that all its churches and centres have been directed to conduct as many as three church services per day during Christmas, to restrict the number of faithful at its churches. The Archdiocese of Ranchi, under the Roman Catholic Church, has also appealed to all its faithful, to dedicate Christmas to the poor, the hungry and the homeless, refrain from bursting crackers and avoid all forms of extravagant expenditures this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/churches-cancelling-x-mas-gatherings-final-call-on-services-awaited/articleshow/79650142.cms||Tapas Biswas
December 10, 2020||Kolkata||TMC neta’s body found in Baruipur pond||Kolkata: The body of a 63-year-old Trinamool Congress leader was found in a pond near his home at Atghora, under Baruipur police station, on Tuesday evening. Subir Ghosh’s family members lodged a complaint, and an unnatural death case has been started by Baruipur police station. Ghosh, a former panchayat samiti member and president of the local booth committee, went missing on Tuesday evening. According to wife Uma, Ghosh went out to distribute Swasthya Sathi scheme forms and didn’t return. His body was later recovered from the pond. “He spoke to me an hour before he went missing. Someone might have pushed him into the pond. There is a conspiracy behind his death and we want a proper investigation,” Uma said. An investigating officer said: “We are waiting for the autopsy report. We have started investigation but there is no injury mark on his body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-netas-body-found-in-baruipur-pond/articleshow/79652054.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
